

 
 
 



REFERENCE TITLE: technical correction; real estate
  licensing




 
 
 
State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016
 
 




HB 2254




 




Introduced by 
Representative
  Mesnard
 



 
AN ACT
 
amending section
32-2127, Arizona Revised Statutes; Relating to real estate licensing.
 
 
(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)
 




Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section 1.  Section 32-2127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2127.  Licenses for additional places of business; branch office
manager; broker's temporary absence
A.  When a broker maintains more than one place of
business within the state he shall be required to procure an additional license
for each branch office maintained.
B.  Branch office licenses shall be issued in the
same name as the principal office license is issued, and the license must be
posted in the branch office.  Branch office signs shall conform to
the provisions for the principal office and shall include the designation
"branch office".
C.  Each branch office shall be under the management
of a broker or a licensed salesman.
D.  If a designated broker is unable to act within
twenty‑four hours, he may designate a licensee whom he employs or another
designated broker to act in his behalf.  The designated broker shall
make this designation in writing and shall keep the original designation at his
office for one year from its effective date.  A copy of this designation
must be attached to any hire, sever or renewal form submitted to the department
which is signed by the designated broker's designee.  This
designation shall not exceed thirty days' duration and may authorize the
designee to perform any and all
duties the designated broker may legally perform, except that a salesperson
shall not be authorized to hire or sever licensees.  A written
designation is required for each temporary absence. END_STATUTE


