



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: catastrophic public nuisance;
  determination; abatement








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2051









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem, Borrelli, Mitchell: Lawrence, Thorpe, Townsend





AN ACT

Amending Title 9,
chapter 4, article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 9500.38;
Amending title 11, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 11269.15; relating to public lands.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 9, chapter 4, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 9-500.38, to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.38.Catastrophic public nuisance; determination; notice; plan
to abate; emergency abatement; definitions
A.The mayor of a city or town may determine that
a catastrophic public nuisance exists on state or federal land located within
the borders of the city or town. In evaluating whether a catastrophic public
nuisance exists, the mayor of the city or town may consider:
1.Tree density and overall health of forested
areas, including the fire regime condition class.
2.Insect and disease infestation, including
insect and disease hazard ratings.
3.Fuel loads.
4.Forest or range type.
5.Slope and other natural characteristics of an
area.
6.Watershed protection criteria.
7.Weather and climate.
8.Any other factor that the mayor of the city or
town determines is relevant under the circumstances.
B.Except as provided in subsections F and G of
this section, on determining that a catastrophic public nuisance exists, the
mayor of a city or town shall do all of the following:
1.Consult with the city or town attorney or
attorney general.
2.Notify the federal or state agency that
manages the land on which the catastrophic public nuisance exists by personal
service or certified mail.
3.Provide a copy of the notice of determination
to the governor, the attorney general and, if the catastrophic public nuisance
exists on federal land, the congressional delegation of this state.
C.The notice of determination required by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section shall include:
1.A detailed explanation of the basis for the
determination that a catastrophic public nuisance exists.
2.A demand that the federal or state agency make
a plan to abate the catastrophic public nuisance.
3.A specific date, at least thirty days after
the date on which the notice is received, by which the federal or state agency
that manages the land shall abate the catastrophic public nuisance or produce a
plan for mitigating the catastrophic public nuisance that is reasonably acceptable
to the city or town.
D.The mayor of the city or town may enter into a
plan with the federal or state agency that manages the land on which the
catastrophic public nuisance exists to abate the catastrophic public nuisance.
E.If the federal or state agency does not
respond by the date provided in the notice of determination or otherwise
indicates that the federal or state agency will not take action to abate the
catastrophic public nuisance, the mayor of the city or town shall notify and
consult with the city or town attorney and the attorney general.
F.If the mayor of the city or town determines,
pursuant to subsection A of this section, that a catastrophic public nuisance
exists on federally managed land and finds that the catastrophic public nuisance
adversely affects or constitutes a threat to the public health, safety and
welfare of the people of the city or town, the mayor of the city or town, in
consultation with the city or town attorney and attorney general, shall pursue
all remedies allowed by law.
G.If seeking emergency abatement of a
catastrophic public nuisance pursuant to subsection F of this section, the
mayor of the city or town shall attempt, as much as possible, to:
1.Coordinate with state and federal agencies.
2.Obtain the advice of professionals, including
professionals in the private sector, with expertise in abating catastrophic
public nuisance.
H.This section does not limit the authority of
this state to manage and protect wildlife pursuant to title 17 or the power of
a city or town prescribed by section 9-240, subsection B, paragraph 21.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Catastrophic public nuisance" means
a condition on state or federal land where natural resources and biota have
been managed or neglected to such an extent as to cause either:
(a)The
threat of a catastrophic wildfire demonstrated by:
(i)Stand
density, basal area or ground fuel load greater than one hundred fifty percent
of land health standards.
(ii)An
insect or disease infestation severe enough to threaten the mortality of at
least twenty percent of the trees in the area.
(b)A
condition in the area that threatens any of the following:
(i)The
quantity or quality of the water supply of a city or town.
(ii)The
health, safety or welfare of the citizens of a city or town.
(iii)The
air quality of a nonattainment area as defined in section 49401.01.
(iv)Vegetative
resources required to support land health and authorized livestock grazing.
2."Federal agency" includes the:
(a)United
States bureau of land management.
(b)United
States forest service. 
(c)United
States fish and wildlife service.
(d)National
park service. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title
11, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 11-269.15, to read:
START_STATUTE11-269.15.Catastrophic public nuisance; determination; notice; plan
to abate; emergency abatement; definitions
A.The chairman of the board of supervisors or
the county sheriff may determine that a catastrophic public nuisance exists on
state or federal land located within the borders of the county. In evaluating
whether a catastrophic public nuisance exists, the chairman of the board of
supervisors or the county sheriff may consider:
1.Tree density and overall health of forested
areas, including the fire regime condition class.
2.Insect and disease infestation, including
insect and disease hazard ratings.
3.Fuel loads.
4.Forest or range type.
5.Slope and other natural characteristics of an
area.
6.Watershed protection criteria.
7.Weather and climate.
8.Any other factor that the chairman of the
board of supervisors or the county sheriff determines is relevant under the circumstances.
B.Except as provided in subsections F and G of
this section, on determining that a catastrophic public nuisance exists, the
chairman of the board of supervisors or the county sheriff shall do all of the
following:
1.Consult with the county attorney or attorney
general.
2.Notify the federal or state agency that
manages the land on which the catastrophic public nuisance exists by personal
service or certified mail.
3.Provide a copy of the notice of determination
to the governor, the attorney general and, if the catastrophic public nuisance
exists on federal land, the congressional delegation of this state.
C.The notice of determination required by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section shall include:
1.A detailed explanation of the basis for the
determination that a catastrophic public nuisance exists.
2.A demand that the federal or state agency make
a plan to abate the catastrophic public nuisance.
3.A specific date, at least thirty days after
the date on which the notice is received, by which the federal or state agency
that manages the land shall abate the catastrophic public nuisance or produce a
plan for mitigating the catastrophic public nuisance that is reasonably
acceptable to the county.
D.The
chairman of the board of supervisors or the county sheriff may enter into a
plan with the federal or state agency that manages the land on which the
catastrophic public nuisance exists to abate the catastrophic public nuisance.
E.If the
federal or state agency does not respond by the date provided in the notice of
determination or otherwise indicates that the federal or state agency will not
take action to abate the catastrophic public nuisance, the chairman of the
board of supervisors or the county sheriff shall notify and consult with the
county attorney and the attorney general.
F.If the
chairman of the board of supervisors or the county sheriff determines, pursuant
to subsection A of this section, that a catastrophic public nuisance exists on
federally managed land and finds that the catastrophic public nuisance
adversely affects or constitutes a threat to the public health, safety and
welfare of the people of the county, the chairman of the board of supervisors
or the county sheriff, in consultation with the county attorney and attorney
general, shall pursue all remedies allowed by law.
G.If
seeking emergency abatement of a catastrophic public nuisance pursuant to
subsection F of this section, the chairman of the board of supervisors or the
county sheriff shall attempt, as much as possible, to:
1.Coordinate
with state and federal agencies.
2.Obtain
the advice of professionals, including professionals in the private sector,
with expertise in abating catastrophic public nuisance.
H.This
section does not limit the authority of this state to manage and protect
wildlife pursuant to title 17 or the power of a city or town prescribed by
section 9-240, subsection B, paragraph 21.
I.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Catastrophic
public nuisance" means a condition on state or federal land where natural
resources and biota have been managed or neglected to such an extent as to
cause either:
(a)The threat of a catastrophic
wildfire demonstrated by:
(i)Stand density, basal area or
ground fuel load greater than one hundred fifty percent of land health
standards.
(ii)An insect or disease infestation
severe enough to threaten the mortality of at least twenty percent of the trees
in the area.
(b)A condition in the area that
threatens any of the following:
(i)The quantity or quality of the
water supply of a county.
(ii)The health, safety or welfare of
the citizens of the county.
(iii)The air quality of a
nonattainment area as defined in section 49401.01.
(iv)Vegetative resources required to
support land health and authorized livestock grazing.
2."Federal
agency" includes the:
(a)United States bureau of land
management.
(b)United
States forest service. 
(c)United
States fish and wildlife service.
(d)National
park service. END_STATUTE

