



PREFILED NOV 15 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: unlawful distribution of private images







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2001









Introduced by
Representative
  Mesnard





AN ACT

amending section
131425, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to sexual offenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-1425, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-1425.Unlawful distribution of images depicting states of nudity
or specific sexual activities; classification; definitions
A.It is unlawful for a person to intentionally disclose, display, distribute, publish, advertise or
offer a photograph, videotape, film or digital recording an image of another person in a state of nudity or engaged in specific
sexual activities if the person knows or should have known that the depicted
person has not consented to the disclosure. who is identifiable from the image itself or from
information displayed in connection with the image If all of the following
apply:
1.The
person in the image is depicted in a state of nudity or is engaged in specific
sexual activities.
2.The
depicted person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. Evidence that a
person has sent an image to another person using an electronic device does not,
on its own, remove the person's reasonable expectation of privacy for that
image.
3.The image
is disclosed with the intent to harm, harass, intimidate, threaten or coerce
the depicted person.
B.This section does not apply to any of the
following:
1.The
reporting of unlawful conduct.
1.2.Lawful
and common practices of law enforcement, criminal reporting,
unlawful activity, or when permitted or
required by law or rule in legal proceedings or medical treatment.
2.Lawful and
common practices of medical treatment.
3.Images involving voluntary exposure in a public
or commercial setting.
4.An interactive computer service, as defined in 47
United States Code section 230(f)(2), or an information service, as defined in
47 United States Code section 153, with regard to content wholly provided by another person
party.
5.Any
disclosure that is made with the consent of the person who is depicted in the
image.
C.A violation of this section is a class 5 felony,
except that a violation of this section is a:
1.Class
4 felony if the depicted person is
recognizable image is
disclosed by electronic means.
2.Class 1
misdemeanor if A person threatens to disclose but does not disclose an image
that if disclosed would be a violation of this section.
D.For the purposes of this section: ,
"state of nudity" and 
1."Disclose"
means display, distribute, publish, advertise or offer.
2."Disclosed
by electronic means" means delivery to an email address, mobile
device, tablet or other electronic device and includes disclosure on a website.
3."Harm"
means physical injury, financial injury or serious emotional distress.
4."Image"
means a photograph, videotape, film or digital recording.
5."Reasonable
expectation of privacy" means the person exhibits an actual expectation of
privacy and the expectation is reasonable.
6."Specific
sexual activities" have
has the same meanings meaning prescribed in section 11811, subsection D, paragraph 18, subdivisions (a) and (b).
7."State
of nudity" has the same meaning prescribed in section 11811,
subsection D, paragraph 14, subdivision (a). END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Applicability
A prosecution that is commenced before the effective date of
this act and that charges a violation of section 131425, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by Laws 2014, chapter 268, section 1, may only proceed if
the alleged conduct constitutes prohibited conduct under section 131425,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.
Sec.3.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

