



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: speed limits; local authority







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2032









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Cobb, Espinoza: Finchem





AN ACT

amending section
28-703, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to speed restrictions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-703, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-703.Alteration of speed limits by local authority
A.If a local authority determines on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation that the maximum speed permitted under
this article is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions
found to exist on any part of a street or highway in its jurisdiction, the
local authority may determine and declare a reasonable and safe maximum speed
limit at the location and, based on the investigation, may:
1.Decrease the limit at intersections.
2.Increase the limit within any business or
residence district to not more than sixtyfive miles per hour.
3.Decrease the limit outside any business or
residence district.
4.Increase or decrease the limit on streets that are adjacent to or otherwise surrounding school
grounds or public parks.
B.A local authority shall determine by an
engineering and traffic investigation the proper maximum speed for all arterial
streets in its jurisdiction and shall declare a reasonable and safe maximum
limit on the arterial streets in its jurisdiction that may be more or less than
the maximum speed permitted under this article for a business or residence
district.
C.A local authority may decrease the limit to not
less than fifteen miles per hour on an unpaved street or road within any
district in its jurisdiction if the local authority determines that the limit
is necessary to achieve or maintain national ambient air quality standards.
D.An altered limit established as provided for in
this section is effective at all times, or during hours of darkness, or at
other times as may be determined if appropriate signs giving notice of the
altered limit are erected on the street or highway.
E.The alteration of maximum speed limits on state
highways or extensions of state highways in a municipality by a local authority
is not effective until the director approves the alteration.
F.A local authority shall not make more than six
alterations per mile along a street or highway pursuant to this section, except
for reduced limits at intersections.The difference between adjacent
limits shall not be more than ten miles per hour except for school crossings. END_STATUTE

