



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: STO; credit cap; allocation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2063









Introduced by
Representative
  Coleman





AN ACT

Amending sections
43-1183, 43-1502, 43-1503, 43-1504, 43-1505, 43-1602 and 43-1603, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to school tuition organization income tax credits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1183.Credit for contributions to school tuition organization
A.Beginning from and after June 30, 2006, a credit
is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the taxpayer during the taxable year to a school
tuition organization that is certified pursuant to chapter 15 of this title at
the time of donation.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the taxpayer's contributions for the taxable year under subsection A of this
section and is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to subsection
D of this section.
C.The department of revenue:
1.Shall not allow tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 that exceed in the aggregate a combined total of
ten million dollars in any fiscal year.Beginning in fiscal year
20072008 through fiscal year
2015-2016, the aggregate dollar amount of the tax credit cap from
the previous fiscal year shall be annually increased by twenty percent. beginning in fiscal year 2016-2017, the
aggregate dollar amount of the tax credit cap from the previous fiscal year
shall be annually increased by the greater of the following:
(a)The
percentage of the annual increase, if any, in the metropolitan Phoenix consumer
price index published by the United States bureau of labor statistics.
(b)Two
percent.
2.Shall preapprove tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 subject to subsection D of this section.
3.Shall allow the tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 on a first come, first served basis.
D.For the purposes of subsection C, paragraph 2 of
this section, before making a contribution to a school tuition organization,
the taxpayer under this title or title 20 must notify the school tuition
organization of the total amount of contributions that the taxpayer intends to
make to the school tuition organization.Before accepting the
contribution, the school tuition organization shall request preapproval from
the department of revenue for the taxpayer's intended contribution amount. The
department of revenue shall preapprove or deny the requested amount within
twenty days after receiving the request from the school tuition
organization.If the department of revenue preapproves the request,
the school tuition organization shall immediately notify the taxpayer, and the
department of insurance in the case of a credit under section 20224.06,
that the requested amount was preapproved by the department of revenue. In
order to receive a tax credit under this subsection, the taxpayer shall make
the contribution to the school tuition organization within twenty days after
receiving notice from the school tuition organization that the requested amount
was preapproved.If the school tuition organization does not receive
the preapproved contribution from the taxpayer within the required twenty days,
the school tuition organization shall immediately notify the department of
revenue, and the department of insurance in the case of a credit under section
20224.06, and the department of revenue shall no longer include this
preapproved contribution amount when calculating the limit prescribed in
subsection C, paragraph 1 of this section.
E.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
F.Co-owners of a business, including corporate
partners in a partnership and stockholders of an S corporation as defined in
section 1361 of the internal revenue code, may each claim only the pro rata
share of the credit allowed under this section based on the ownership
interest. The total of the credits allowed all such owners may not exceed the
amount that would have been allowed a sole owner.
G.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
H.A taxpayer shall not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431184 with respect to the same
contribution.
I.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization for
the direct benefit of any specific student.
J.The department of revenue, with the cooperation
of the department of insurance, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe
forms and procedures necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 43-1502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1502.Certification as a school tuition organization
A.A nonprofit organization in this state that is
exempt or has applied for exemption from federal taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code may apply to the department of revenue
for certification as a school tuition organization, and the department shall
certify the school tuition organization if it meets the requirements prescribed
by this chapter. An organization must apply for certification on a form
prescribed and furnished on request by the department.
B.The department
shall:
1.Maintain a public
registry of currently certified school tuition organizations.
2.Make the registry available to the public on request.
3.Post the registry on the department's official
website.
C.The department shall send written notice by
certified mail to a school tuition organization if the department determines
that the school tuition organization has engaged in any of the following
activities:
1.Failing
Failed or refusing refused to allocate at least ninety per cent ninety-five percent of annual revenues from
contributions made for the purposes of sections 20224.06, 20224.07,
431183 and 43-1184 for educational scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Failing
Failed or refusing refused to file the annual reports required by section 431506.
3.Limiting
Limited the availability
of scholarships to students of only one school.
4.Encouraging Encouraged, facilitating facilitated or knowingly permitting permitted taxpayers to engage in actions
prohibited by this article.
5.Knowingly colluding
colluded with any other
school tuition organization to circumvent the limits of section 431504,
subsection C.
D.A school tuition organization that receives
notice from the department pursuant to subsection C of this section has ninety
days to correct the violation identified by the department in the
notice.If a school tuition organization fails or refuses to comply
after ninety days, the department may remove the organization from the list of
certified school tuition organizations and shall make available to the public
notice of removal as soon as possible. An organization that is removed from
the list of certified school tuition organizations must notify any taxpayer who
attempts to make a contribution that the contribution is not eligible for the
tax credit and offer to refund all donations received after the date of the
notice of termination of certification.
E.A school tuition organization may request an
administrative hearing on the revocation of its certification as provided by
title 41, chapter 6, article 10.Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, a decision of the department is subject to judicial review
pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 43-1503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1503.Operational requirements for school tuition organizations
A.A certified school tuition organization must be
established to receive contributions from taxpayers for the purposes of income
tax credits under sections 431183 and 431184 and insurance
premium tax credits under sections 20224.06 and 20224.07 and to
pay educational scholarships or tuition grants to allow students to attend any
qualified school of their parents' or custodians' choice.
B.To be eligible for certification and retain
certification, the school tuition organization:
1.Must allocate at least ninety ninety-five
percent of its annual revenue from contributions made for the purposes of
sections 20224.06, 20224.07, 431183 and 431184 for
educational scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Shall not limit the availability of educational
scholarships or tuition grants to only students of one school.
3.Must allow the department of revenue to verify
that the educational scholarships and tuition grants that are issued are
awarded to students who attend a qualified school.
4.Must not knowingly collude with any other school
tuition organization to circumvent the limits of section 431504,
subsection C.
5.Must not award
educational scholarships or tuition grants to students who are simultaneously
enrolled in a district school or charter school and a qualified school.
6.Shall include on the organization's website, if
one exists, the percentage and total dollar amount of educational scholarships
and tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose family income meets the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose family
income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this paragraph
but does not exceed one hundred eightyfive percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 43-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1504.Special provisions; corporate donations for low-income
scholarships; rules
A.A school tuition organization that receives
contributions from a corporation for the purposes of section 20224.06 or
431183 must use at least ninety
per cent ninety-five
percent of those
contributions to provide educational scholarships or tuition grants only to
children whose family income does not exceed one hundred eighty-five per cent percent of the income limit required to
qualify a child for reduced price
reduced-price lunches
under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code
sections 1751 through 1785) and to whom any of the following applies:
1.Attended a governmental primary or secondary
school as a full-time student as defined in section 15901 or attended a
preschool program that offers services to students with disabilities at a
governmental school for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal year or one
full semester and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified school.
2.Enroll in a qualified school in a kindergarten
program or a preschool program that offers services to students with
disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a member of the armed forces
of the United States who is stationed in this state pursuant to military
orders.
4.Received an educational scholarship or tuition
grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection or chapter 16, article 1 of
this title if the children continue to attend a qualified school in a
subsequent year.
B.A child is eligible to receive an educational
scholarship or tuition grant under subsection A of this section if the child
meets the criteria to receive a reduced
price reduced-price lunch
but does not actually claim that benefit.
C.In 2006, a school tuition organization shall not
issue an educational scholarship or a tuition grant for the purposes of section
20224.06 or 431183 in an amount that exceeds four thousand two
hundred dollars for students in a disabled
preschool or kindergarten program, in A preschool program that offers services to students
with disabilities or in grades
one through eight or five thousand five hundred dollars for students in grades
nine through twelve.In each year after 2006, the limitation amount
for a scholarship or a grant under this subsection shall be increased by one
hundred dollars.
D.A school tuition organization shall require that
student beneficiaries use the educational scholarships or tuition grants on a
fulltime basis.If a child leaves the school before
completing an entire school year, the school shall refund a prorated amount of
the educational scholarship or tuition grant to the school tuition organization
that issued the scholarship or grant.The school tuition
organization shall allocate any refunds it receives under this subsection for
educational scholarships or tuition grants.
E.Students who receive an educational scholarship
or tuition grant under this section shall be allowed to attend any qualified
school of their parents' choice.
F.The department of revenue, with the cooperation
of the department of insurance, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe
forms and procedures necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 43-1505, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1505.Special provisions; corporate donations for displaced
students and students with disabilities; definition
A.A school tuition organization that receives
contributions for the purposes of section 20224.07 or 431184 must
use at least ninety per cent
ninety-five percent of
those contributions to provide educational scholarships or tuition grants to
qualified students. 
B.The amount of an educational scholarship or a
tuition grant that is issued by a school tuition organization under this
section shall not exceed the cost of tuition for the student to attend the
qualified school or ninety per cent ninetyfive percent of
the amount of state aid that otherwise would be computed for the student as
provided in title 15, chapter 9, article 5, whichever is less.On
request from a school tuition organization, the department of education shall
provide to the school tuition organization in a timely manner the amount
computed for the student under this subsection that represents the ninety per cent ninetyfive percent limitation
prescribed in this subsection.
C.A school tuition organization shall require that
student beneficiaries use the educational scholarships or tuition grants on a
fulltime basis. If a child leaves the school before completing an
entire school year, the school shall refund a prorated amount of the
educational scholarship or tuition grant to the school tuition organization
that issued the scholarship or grant. The school tuition organization shall
allocate any refunds it receives under this subsection for educational
scholarships or tuition grants.
D.Qualified students who receive an educational
scholarship or tuition grant under this section shall be allowed to attend any
qualified school of their custodians' choice.
E.For the purposes of this section, "qualified
student" means a student, including a student who previously qualified for
an educational scholarship or tuition grant under this section and continues to
attend a qualified school, who has been either:
1.Placed in foster care pursuant to title 8,
chapter 4 at any time before the student graduates from high school or obtains
a general equivalency diploma.
2.Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act (29 United States Code section 794) or identified
at any time by a school district as a child with a disability as defined in
section 15761 or a child with a disability who is eligible to receive
services from a school district under section 15763. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 43-1602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1602.Certification as a school tuition organization
A.A nonprofit organization in this state that is
exempt or has applied for exemption from federal taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code may apply to the department of revenue
for certification as a school tuition organization, and the department shall
certify the school tuition organization if it meets the requirements prescribed
by this chapter. An organization must apply for certification on a form
prescribed and furnished on request by the department.
B.The department shall:
1.Maintain a public registry of currently certified
school tuition organizations.
2.Make the registry available to the public on
request.
3.Post the registry on the department's official
website.
C.The department shall send written notice by
certified mail to a school tuition organization if the department determines
that the school tuition organization has engaged in any of the following
activities:
1.Failing
Failed or refusing refused to allocate at least ninety per cent ninety-five percent of annual revenues from
contributions made for the purposes of sections 431089 and 431089.03
for educational scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Failing
Failed or refusing refused to file the annual reports required by section 431604.
3.Limiting Limited the availability of scholarships to
students of only one school.
4.Encouraging Encouraged, facilitating facilitated or knowingly permitting permitted taxpayers to engage in actions
prohibited by this article.
5.Awarding Awarded, restricting restricted or reserving reserved educational scholarships or tuition
grants for use by a particular student based solely on the recommendation of
the donor.
D.A school tuition organization that receives
notice from the department pursuant to subsection C of this section has ninety
days to correct the violation identified by the department in the notice. If a
school tuition organization fails or refuses to comply after ninety days, the
department may remove the organization from the list of certified school
tuition organizations and shall make available to the public notice of removal
as soon as possible. An organization that is removed from the list of
certified school tuition organizations must notify any taxpayer who attempts to
make a contribution that the contribution is not eligible for the tax credit
and offer to refund all donations received after the date of the notice of
termination of certification.
E.A school tuition organization may request an administrative
hearing on the revocation of its certification as provided by title 41, chapter
6, article 10.Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, a decision of the department is subject to judicial review
pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
43-1603, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1603.Operational requirements for school tuition organizations;
notice; qualified schools
A.A
certified school tuition organization must be established to receive
contributions from taxpayers for the purposes of income tax credits under
sections 431089 and 431089.03 and to pay educational scholarships
or tuition grants to allow students to attend any qualified school of their
parents' choice.
B.To be eligible for
certification and retain certification, the school tuition organization:
1.Must allocate at
least ninety ninety-five percent of its
annual revenue from contributions made for the purposes of sections 431089
and 431089.03 for educational scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Shall not limit the
availability of educational scholarships or tuition grants to only students of
one school.
3.May allow donors to
recommend student beneficiaries, but shall not award, designate or reserve
scholarships solely on the basis of donor recommendations.
4.Shall not allow
donors to designate student beneficiaries as a condition of any contribution to
the organization, or facilitate, encourage or knowingly permit the exchange of
beneficiary student designations in violation of section 431089,
subsection F.
5.Shall include on the
organization's website, if one exists, the percentage and total dollar amount of
educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal
year to:
(a)Students whose
family income meets the economic eligibility requirements established under the
national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections
1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose
family income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this
paragraph but does not exceed one hundred eighty-five percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
6.Must not award
educational scholarships or tuition grants to students who are simultaneously
enrolled in a district school or charter school and a qualified school.
C.A school tuition
organization shall include the following notice in any printed materials
soliciting donations, in applications for scholarships and on its website, if
one exists:
Notice
A
school tuition organization cannot award, restrict or reserve scholarships
solely on the basis of a donor's recommendation.
A taxpayer may not
claim a tax credit if the taxpayer agrees to swap donations with another
taxpayer to benefit either taxpayer's own dependent.
D.In evaluating
applications and awarding, designating or reserving scholarships, a school
tuition organization:
1.Shall not award,
designate or reserve a scholarship solely on the recommendation of any person
contributing money to the organization, but may consider the recommendation
among other factors.
2.Shall consider the
financial need of applicants.
E.A taxpayer's
contribution to a school tuition organization that exceeds the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089 but does not exceed the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089.03 is considered a contribution
pursuant to section 431089.03. A school tuition organization must use
at least ninety ninety-five percent of
contributions made pursuant to section 431089.03 for educational
scholarships or tuition grants for students to whom any of the following
applies:
1.Attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a full-time student as defined in
section 15901 or attended a preschool program that offers services to
students with disabilities at a governmental school for at least ninety days of
the prior fiscal year and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified
school.
2.Enrolls in a
qualified school in a kindergarten program or a preschool program that offers
services to students with disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a
member of the armed forces of the United States who is stationed in this state
pursuant to military orders.
4.Received an
educational scholarship or tuition grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this
subsection or under chapter 15 of this title if the student continues to attend
a qualified school in a subsequent year.
F.In awarding
educational scholarships or tuition grants from contributions made pursuant to
section 431089.03, a school tuition organization shall give priority to
students and siblings of students on a waiting list for scholarships if the
school tuition organization maintains a waiting list.
G.If an individual
educational scholarship or tuition grant exceeds the school's tuition, the
amount in excess shall be returned to the school tuition organization that made
the award or grant.The school tuition organization may allocate the
returned monies as a multiyear award for that student and report the award
pursuant to section 431604, paragraph 5, subdivision (b) or may allocate
the returned monies for educational scholarships or tuition grants for other
students. END_STATUTE

