



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; assessments; surveys; informed
  consent







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2088









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem: Leach, Mitchell, Norgaard, Rivero





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 1, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-117;
relating to pupil INFORMATION.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 1, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-117, to read:
START_STATUTE15-117.Surveys; assessments; pupil information; parental
permission and informed consent; exceptions; notice; penalties; definitions
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, each school district, school and charter school shall provide
written notice to and obtain written informed consent from the parent if the
pupil is a minor or from the pupil if the pupil is at least eighteen years of
age before administering to any pupil any assessment or survey that solicits
any of the following:
1.Any pupil
psychological data, including:
(a)Any assessment of noncognitive
skills or attributes, psychological resources, mindsets, learning strategies,
effortful control, dispositions, social skills, attitudes, interpersonal
resources or intrapersonal resources or any other type of social, emotional or
psychological parameter.
(b)Any data collected through
affective computing, including an analysis of facial expressions, brain wave
patterns, skin conductance, galvanic skin response, heartrate variability,
pulse, blood volume, posture or eyetracking or any similar method.
(c)any data collected through
real-time analysis and adaptive tailoring of successive questions in the
process of testing, assessing or surveying, including computerized adaptive
testing and pedagogical agents.
(d)Any data collected through
predictive modeling to be used to detect behaviors, beliefs or value systems or
for predicting or forecasting pupil outcomes.
2.Personal
information about the pupil, the pupil's family or the pupil's household,
including:
(a)Critical appraisals of another
person with whom a pupil has a close relationship.
(b)Gun or ammunition ownership.
(c)Illegal, antisocial,
self-incriminating or demeaning behavior.
(d)Income or other financial
information.
(e)Legally recognized privileged or
analogous relationships, such as relationships with a lawyer, physician or
member of the clergy.
(f)Medical history or medical
information.
(g)Mental health history or mental
health information.
(h)Political affiliations, opinions
or beliefs.
(i)Pupil biometric information.
(j)The quality of home interpersonal
relationships.
(k)Religious practices,
affiliations or beliefs.
(l)Self-sufficiency.
(m)Sexual behavior or attitudes.
(n)Voting history.
b.notwithstandng any other law:
1.the parent's written informed consent pursuant
to this section is limited to the specific assessment or survey referenced in
the official written notice from the school district or charter school and does
not extend to any subsequent assessment or survey pursuant to subsection a of
this section.
2.for any
pupil who is at least eighteen years of age, the permission or consent that
would otherwise be required from the pupil's parent pursuant to this section is
required only from the pupil.
3.this
section does not allow school districts, charter schools, schools, teachers or
other school employees to assess or survey pupils or collect any pupil data
relating to matters addressed by subsection a of this section without written
informed consent from the parent.
c.Subsection
A of This section does not permit or deny school districts, schools, charter
schools, teachers or other school employees the authority to assess or survey
pupils or to collect any pupil data relating to matters prescribed in
subsection A of this section.
d.Notwithstanding any other law:
1.All assessments and surveys conducted pursuant
to subsection A of this section shall be approved and authorized by the school
district, school or charter school. The school district, school or charter
school is liable for any violation of this paragraph and is subject to the
penalties prescribed in subsection p of this section. A person who is injured
by a violation of this paragraph may commence a civil action in superior court.
2.A teacher
or other school employee may not administer any assessment or survey pursuant
to subsection A of this section without written authorization from the school
district, school or charter school.Any teacher or other school
employee who violates this paragraph is personally liable for violations of
this paragraph and is subject to the penalties prescribed in subsection q of
this section. Any teacher or other school employee who administers any
assessment or survey pursuant to subsection A of this section through a
substitute teacher, paraprofessional, or other school employee without written
authorization from the school district, school or charter school shall be held
responsible for any violation of this paragraph. A person who is injured by a
violation of this paragraph may commence a civil action in superior court.
e.This section
applies to all assessments and surveys conducted pursuant to subsection A of
this section:
1.Regardless
of the stated purpose of the assessment or survey.
2.Regardless
of the quantity or percentage of questions that solicit data pursuant to subsection
A of this section.
3.Including
assessments or surveys that:
(a)Question beliefs or practices in
sex, morality or religion pursuant to section 15-102.
(b)Include sex education
information pursuant to section 15-102.
(c)Include any information
regarding sexuality pursuant to section 15102.
4.Including
written, digital or verbal assessments or surveys or any other method of
assessment, survey or data collection.
5.Including
national, state or multistate assessments or surveys.
f.This section
does not apply to:
1.Mental
health screening pursuant to section 15-104.
2.Classroom
instruction and discussion on subjects within the purview of the course, except
for topics otherwise prohibited without parental notification and informed
consent pursuant to this section, if statements by a pupil in such discussions
do not become a part of the pupil's educational record.
3.Assignments
that do not become a part of a pupil's educational record, except for topics
otherwise prohibited without parental notification and informed consent
pursuant to this section.
4.Private
schools.
g.Subsection
f of This section does not permit or deny teachers or other school employees
the authority to discuss with pupils or give assignments relating to matters prescribed
by subsection A of this section.
h.Notwithstanding
any other law, a penalty may not be imposed on a pupil or the parent of a pupil
who does not participate in any assessment or survey conducted pursuant to
subsection A of this section. Participation in any assessment or survey
pursuant to subsection A of this section is not required:
1.To
demonstrate that a pupil has met competency requirements for any grade level,
course or subject.
2.For a
pupil to qualify for placement into any grade level, course or subject,
including college or university placement tests.
3.For a
pupil to be promoted to the next grade.
4.For a
pupil to receive credit for any course or as part of a letter grade for any
course.
5.For a
pupil to graduate from high school.
6.For a
pupil to obtain a high school equivalency diploma.
7.For a
pupil to participate in any course, program or activity offered to pupils who
participate in the assessment or survey pursuant to subsection A of this
section.
i.A parent
may elect in writing in the manner prescribed in this section for that pupil to
participate in assessments or surveys conducted pursuant to subsection A of
this section. A parent is not required to respond to a written notice provided
by a school district or charter school pursuant to this section. If a parent
does not respond to a written notice transmitted by a school district or
charter school pursuant to this section, the parent is deemed not to consent
for that pupil to participate in the assessment or survey pursuant to
subsection A of this section.
j.A school
district, school or charter school shall provide an alternative educational
activity for any pupil whose parent does not consent for that pupil to
participate in an assessment or survey conducted pursuant to subsection A of
this section.
k.Notwithstanding
any other law, Any pupil whose parent does not give written informed consent
for that pupil to participate in any assessment or survey pursuant to
subsection A of this section and who attends the alternative educational
activity pursuant to this section shall be counted toward daily attendance and
average daily membership for the school pursuant to section 15-901 and may not
be counted absent from school.
l.Notwithstanding
any other law, responses to any assessment or survey pursuant to subsection A
of this section may not be included:
1.As part
of a school academic performance indicator pursuant to section 15-241, or as
part of any other similar school rating system.
2.In the
education learning and accountability system pursuant to section 15-249, or in
any other similar system.
3.In the
student accountability information system pursuant to section 15-756.10 or
15-1041, or in any other similar system.
4.In any
school rating system.
m.A penalty
may not be imposed on and a reward may not be granted to a teacher,
administrator, other school employee, school district, school or charter school
based on the pupil participation rate in any assessment or survey conducted
pursuant to subsection A of this section.
n.The
parent may request and inspect and shall be provided, free of charge, the
assessment or survey conducted pursuant to subsection A of this section,
including the questions asked, the pupil's answers, instructions or directions
given to the pupil and other supplementary materials used to administer and
evaluate that pupil's assessment or survey.The assessment or survey
shall be available for parental review after the results have been posted or
within one hundred twenty days after the administration of the assessment or
survey, whichever occurs first. The school district, school or charter school
shall comply with a parent's request no later than fortyfive days after
the request is submitted. The superintendent of public instruction shall
implement procedures to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
o.Any
written notice provided by a school district or charter school pursuant to this
section shall be printed in tenpoint or larger font and:
1.Shall
include:
(a)the name of the school district,
school or charter school that approved the assessment or survey.
(b)The name of the assessment or
survey.
(c)The date or dates on which the
assessment or survey will be administered.
(d)The method or methods of
collecting data for the assessment or survey conducted pursuant to subsection A
of this section. If a computer is used to administer or record the data, the
notice shall include a statement of whether the data collected will be
transmitted electronically from the computer or the location where the
assessment or survey is administered.
(e)The approximate number of hours
that the pupil will be administered the assessment or survey.
(f)The type of data to be collected
pursuant to subsection A of this section.
(g)The reasons for collection of
the data.
(h)A statement indicating that the
parent's written informed consent pursuant to this section is limited to the
specific assessment or survey referenced in that specific written notice and
does not extend to any subsequent assessment or survey. 
2.Shall
require, on the right side of the paper, the parent's initials to affirmatively
acknowledge each of the following:
(a)That participation in the
assessment or survey is voluntary and that written parental consent is required
before the pupil participates in the assessment or survey.
(b)That pupils who do not
participate in the assessment or survey shall be provided an alternative
educational activity during the time the assessment or survey is administered.
(c)That penalties will not be
imposed against a pupil or the parent of a pupil who does not participate in
the assessment or survey.
(d)That the parent may request and
shall be provided, free of charge, the data collected from that pupil by the
assessment or survey. 
(e)the procedure by which the
parent may request and be provided the data collected from the pupil by the
assessment or survey.
(f)Whether the pupil's personally
identifiable data collected by the assessment or survey will be aggregated by
the removal of that pupil's personal information.
(g)The names of the federal and
state agencies, institutions and third parties that will have access to the
data collected by the assessment or survey, whether these parties will keep
this data private or share this data with other parties and whether these
parties will destroy this data when the pupil is no longer serviced by the
school district, school or charter school or when the pupil reaches eighteen
years of age.
3.Shall
require and clearly provide space for:
(a)The pupil's name and the
parent's name.
(b)The parent's signature and the
date of the signature.
4.Is not
valid without all of the information required by this subsection.
5.Shall be
retained in physical or electronic form by the school district or charter
school for two years after the date of the assessment or survey.
P.Notwithstanding any other law:
1.Any school district, charter school or school
that fails to comply with any requirement imposed under this section with
respect to any individual shall be liable for damages to the injured party in
the amount determined under paragraph 2 of this subsection.
2.For an individual action, the sum awarded for
liability under paragraph 1 of this subsection shall be:
(a)In
the case of a first violation, an amount of at least five hundred dollars plus
the costs of the action and reasonable attorney fees.
(b)In
the case of a second violation involving the same pupil, an amount of at least
two thousand five hundred dollars plus the costs of the action and reasonable
attorney fees.
(c)In
the case of a third or any subsequent violation involving the same pupil, an
amount of at least ten thousand dollars plus the costs of the action and
reasonable attorney fees.
3.The court or the jury may award punitive
damages in addition to those set forth in paragraph 2 of this subsection.
4.For the purposes of this subsection, each
violation of this section shall be considered a separate violation if it
involves a different assessment or survey pursuant to subsection A of this
section,or if it involves a different version of or administration of the same
assessment or survey pursuant to subsection A of this section.
5.The injured party or parties may commence a
civil action in superior court pursuant to this section or the party or parties
may request the attorney general to commence a civil action on their behalf
pursuant to this section. on request from the injured party or parties, the
attorney general shall respond within thirty days. If the attorney general
denies the request for civil action, the injured party or parties may proceed
with a civil action.
6.The proceeds from any monetary award under
this subsection shall be paid to the injured party or parties.
7.In the case of an admission of guilt or a
settlement before a formal conviction of a first or second violation, damages
shall be assessed and paid pursuant to this subsection.
Q.Notwithstanding any other law:
1.Any teacher or other school employee who fails
to comply with any requirement imposed under this section with respect to any
individual pupil shall be liable for damages to the injured party or parties in
the amount determined under paragraph 2 of this subsection and subject to
penalties under paragraph 3 of this subsection.
2.In an individual action, the sum awarded for
liability under paragraph 1 of this subsection shall be:
(a)In
the case of a first violation, an amount of at least one hundred dollars per
incident, plus the costs of the action and reasonable attorney fees.
(b)In
the case of a second violation by the same teacher or other school employee, an
amount of at least two hundred fifty dollars plus the costs of the action and
reasonable attorney fees.
3.on conviction of a second violation pursuant
to this subsection:
(a)The
clerk of the superior court shall notify the state board of education, which
shall declare the teacher or other school employee guilty of unprofessional
conduct, and if the teacher is in possession of a teacher's certificate the
board shall permanently revoke it. 
(b)The
teacher or other school employee shall be terminated from employment and shall
be prohibited from future state employment.
4.The court or the jury may award punitive
damages in addition to those set forth in paragraph 2 of this subsection.
5.Conviction for a violation involving one or
more incidents, pursuant to paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this subsection, shall be considered a
second violation if the subsequent incidents occur after the teacher or other
school employee has been found guilty of a first violation or damages have been
awarded pursuant to this section, or both.
6.The injured party or parties may commence a
civil action in superior court pursuant to this section or the party or parties
may request the attorney general to commence a civil action on their behalf
pursuant to this section. On request from the injured party or parties, the
attorney general shall respond within thirty days. If the attorney general
denies the request for civil action, the injured party or parties may proceed
with a civil action.
7.The proceeds from any judicial award shall go
to the injured party or parties.
8.In the case of an admission of guilt or a
settlement before formal conviction of a first or second violation, damages and
penalties shall be assessed pursuant to this subsection.
9.A provision of this section or any other
section, title, rule, regulation, legal opinion or case law shall not preclude
criminal prosecution of a teacher or other school employee who is found guilty
of violating this section, pursuant to any applicable criminal law.
10.this
section does not preclude multiple individual actions, concurrently or
otherwise, against the same teacher or other school employee on behalf of one
or more individual pupils pursuant to this subsection.
R.For the purposes of this section:
1."Adaptive" means the tailoring and
selection of successive questions based on the responses given and includes any
method of effecting this process in testing, assessing or surveying, including
the use of computers.
2."Affective computing" means systems
and devices that can or attempt to recognize, interpret, process or simulate
aspects of human feelings or emotions.
3."Aggregated" means reported for the
population as a whole.
4."Assess" means to administer an
assessment.
5."Assessment" means a documentation,
analysis or evaluation of a pupil's attitudes, behaviors, beliefs, experiences,
opinions or thoughts that becomes a part of the pupil's educational record.
6."Assignment" means written or spoken
work that a pupil is required or given the choice to do as part of a course of
study.
7."Competency requirements" means the
minimum standards of knowledge and skills that must be demonstrated by a pupil
to advance to the next level, achieve credit for a certain course or subject or
graduate from a program of study.
8."Computer" means a programmable
electronic device that can store, retrieve and process data.
9."Computerized adaptive testing"
means using a computer to test, assess or survey by successively selecting
questions for the purpose of maximizing the precision of results based on what
is known about the pupil from previous responses.
10."Educational Data Mining" means
techniques, tools and research intended to extract meaning automatically from
data collected by or related to a pupil's learning activities in educational
settings.
11."Educational Record" means
information that is kept about a student in physical or digital format and that
may be in the possession of the pupil's teacher, school, charter school or
school district, an elected or appointed government official, a government
agency or any third party with which the pupil or the pupil's parent did not
share the information. educational record does not include An assignment in
the possession of a teacher while it is being graded.
12."Parent" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 15101, except that Parent does not mean this state
if the pupil is a ward of the state.
13."Pedagogical agent" means a
simulated, human-like interface between the pupil and the testing, assessment
or survey device in a computerized adaptive testing process that is designed to
model the type of interactions between a pupil and another person.
14."Predictive modeling" means the use
of Educational Data Mining methods to make predictions about future behaviors
or performance.
15."Psychological data" means any
pupil information relating to the mind or emotions that can be collected
through affective computing, assessments, surveys, predictive modeling or any
other method.
16."Real-time" means any electronic
process occurring in the present which can adjust and respond based on user
input.
17."Survey" means:
(a)when
used as a noun, an instrument that investigates the attitudes, behaviors,
beliefs, experiences, opinions or thoughts of a pupil or group of pupils.
(b)when
used as a verb, to investigate the attitudes, behaviors, beliefs, experiences,
opinions or thoughts of a pupil or group of pupils.
18."Test" means:
(a)when
used as a noun, an instrument that measures knowledge or skills in reading,
writing, mathematics, social studies or science.
(b)when used as a verb, to
administer an instrument that measures knowledge or skills in reading, writing,
mathematics, social studies or science. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Pupil and Teacher Protection
Act".

