




PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: multiple committees; exploratory
  committees; repeal








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2083









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
16-901, 16-902, 16-902.01, 16-903, 16-905, 16-913, 16-914, 16-915.01, 16-918,
16-919, 16-947, 16-961 AND 41-133, Arizona Revised Statutes; RELATING TO
CAMPAIGN contributions and expenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agent" means, with respect to any
person other than a candidate, any person who has oral or written authority,
either express or implied, to make or authorize the making of expenditures as
defined in this section on behalf of a candidate, any person who has been
authorized by the treasurer of a political committee to make or authorize the
making of expenditures or a political consultant for a candidate or political
committee.
2."Candidate" means an individual who
receives or gives consent for receipt of a contribution for his nomination for
or election to any office in this state other than a federal office.
3."Candidate's campaign committee" means
a political committee designated and authorized by a candidate.
4."Clearly identified candidate" means
that the name, a photograph or a drawing of the candidate appears or the
identity of the candidate is otherwise apparent by unambiguous reference.
5."Contribution" means any gift,
subscription, loan, advance or deposit of money or anything of value made for
the purpose of influencing an election including supporting or opposing the
recall of a public officer or supporting or opposing the circulation of a
petition for a ballot measure, question or proposition or the recall of a
public officer and:
(a)Includes all of the following:
(i)A contribution made to retire campaign debt.
(ii)Money or the fair market value of anything
directly or indirectly given or loaned to an elected official for the purpose
of defraying the expense of communications with constituents, regardless of
whether the elected official has declared his candidacy.
(iii)The entire amount paid to a political
committee to attend a fundraising or other political event and the
entire amount paid to a political committee as the purchase price for a fundraising
meal or item, except that no contribution results if the actual cost of the
meal or fundraising item, based on the amount charged to the committee
by the vendor, constitutes the entire amount paid by the purchaser for the meal
or item, the meal or item is for the purchaser's personal use and not for
resale and the actual cost is the entire amount paid by the purchaser in
connection with the event.This exception does not apply to auction
items.
(iv)Unless specifically exempted, the provision of
goods or services without charge or at a charge that is less than the usual and
normal charge for such goods and services. The acquisition or use of campaign
assets by a committee that are paid for with the candidate's personal monies,
including campaign signs and other similar promotional materials, is a
contribution and is reportable by the candidate's campaign committee as a
contribution to the campaign.
(b)Does not include
any of the following:
(i)The value of
services provided without compensation by any individual who volunteers on
behalf of a candidate, a candidate's campaign committee or any other political
committee.
(ii)Money or the value of anything directly or
indirectly provided to defray the expense of an elected official meeting with
constituents if the elected official is engaged in the performance of the
duties of his office or provided by the state or a political subdivision to an
elected official for communication with constituents if the elected official is
engaged in the performance of the duties of his office.
(iii)The use of real or personal property,
including a church or community room used on a regular basis by members of a
community for noncommercial purposes, that is obtained by an individual in the
course of volunteering personal services to any candidate, candidate's
committee or political party, and the cost of invitations, food and beverages
voluntarily provided by an individual to any candidate, candidate's campaign
committee or political party in rendering voluntary personal services on the
individual's residential premises or in the church or community room for
candidaterelated or political partyrelated activities, to the
extent that the cumulative value of the invitations, food and beverages
provided by the individual on behalf of any single candidate does not exceed
one hundred dollars with respect to any single election.
(iv)Any unreimbursed payment for personal travel
expenses made by an individual who on his own behalf volunteers his personal
services to a candidate.
(v)The payment by a political party for party
operating expenses, party staff and personnel, party newsletters and reports,
voter registration and efforts to increase voter turnout, party organization
building and maintenance and printing and postage expenses for slate cards,
sample ballots, other written materials that substantially promote three or
more nominees of the party for public office and other election activities not
related to a specific candidate, except that this item does not apply to costs
incurred with respect to a display of the listing of candidates made on
telecommunications systems or in newspapers, magazines or similar types of
general circulation advertising.
(vi)Independent expenditures.
(vii)Monies loaned by a state bank, a federally
chartered depository institution or a depository institution the deposits or
accounts of which are insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation or
the national credit union administration, other than an overdraft made with
respect to a checking or savings account, that is made in accordance with
applicable law and in the ordinary course of business. In order for this
exemption to apply, this loan shall be deemed a loan by each endorser or
guarantor, in that proportion of the unpaid balance that each endorser or
guarantor bears to the total number of endorsers or guarantors, the loan shall
be made on a basis that assures repayment, evidenced by a written instrument,
shall be subject to a due date or amortization schedule and shall bear the
usual and customary interest rate of the lending institution.
(viii)A gift, subscription, loan, advance or
deposit of money or anything of value to a national or a state committee of a
political party specifically designated to defray any cost for the construction
or purchase of an office facility not acquired for the purpose of influencing
the election of a candidate in any particular election.
(ix)Legal or accounting services rendered to or on
behalf of a political committee or a candidate, if the only person paying for
the services is the regular employer of the individual rendering the services
and if the services are solely for the purpose of compliance with this title.
(x)The payment by a political party of the costs of
campaign materials, including pins, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures,
posters, party tabloids and yard signs, used by the party in connection with
volunteer activities on behalf of any nominee of the party or the payment by a
state or local committee of a political party of the costs of voter
registration and getoutthevote activities conducted by the
committee if the payments are not for the costs of campaign materials or
activities used in connection with any telecommunication, newspaper, magazine,
billboard, direct mail or similar type of general public communication or
political advertising.
(xi)Transfers between political committees to
distribute monies raised through a joint fundraising effort in the same
proportion to each committee's share of the fundraising expenses and
payments from one political committee to another in reimbursement of a
committee's proportionate share of its expenses in connection with a joint fundraising
effort.
(xii)An extension of credit for goods and services
made in the ordinary course of the creditor's business if the terms are
substantially similar to extensions of credit to nonpolitical debtors that are
of similar risk and size of obligation and if the creditor makes a commercially
reasonable attempt to collect the debt, except that any extension of credit
under this item made for the purpose of influencing an election that remains
unsatisfied by the candidate after six months, notwithstanding good faith
collection efforts by the creditor, shall be deemed receipt of a contribution
by the candidate but not a contribution by the creditor.
(xiii)Interest or dividends earned by a political
committee on any bank accounts, deposits or other investments of the political
committee.
6."Earmarked" means a designation,
instruction or encumbrance that results in all or any part of a contribution or
expenditure being made to, or expended on behalf of, a clearly identified
candidate or a candidate's campaign committee.
7."Election" means any election for any
initiative, referendum or other ballot measure, question or proposition or a
primary, general, recall, special or runoff election for any office in this
state other than the office of precinct committeeman and other than a federal
office.For the purposes of sections 16903 and 16905,
the general election includes the primary election.
8."Election cycle" means the period
beginning twentyone days after a general election and ending twenty days
after the next successive general election for a particular elected office for
the purposes of sections 16903 and 16-905.
9."Expenditures" includes any purchase,
payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift of money or anything of
value made by a person for the purpose of influencing an election in this state
including supporting or opposing the recall of a public officer or supporting
or opposing the circulation of a petition for a ballot measure, question or
proposition or the recall of a public officer and a contract, promise or
agreement to make an expenditure resulting in an extension of credit and the
value of any inkind contribution received.Expenditure does
not include any of the following:
(a)A news story, commentary or editorial
distributed through the facilities of any telecommunications system, newspaper,
magazine or other periodical publication, unless the facilities are owned or
controlled by a political committee, political party or candidate.
(b)Nonpartisan activity designed to encourage
individuals to vote or to register to vote.
(c)The payment by a political party of the costs of
preparation, display, mailing or other distribution incurred by the party with
respect to any printed slate card, sample ballot or other printed listing of
three or more candidates for any public office for which an election is held,
except that this subdivision does not apply to costs incurred by the party with
respect to a display of any listing of candidates made on any
telecommunications system or in newspapers, magazines or similar types of
general public political advertising.
(d)The payment by a political party of the costs of
campaign materials, including pins, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures,
posters, party tabloids and yard signs, used by the party in connection with
volunteer activities on behalf of any nominee of the party or the payment by a
state or local committee of a political party of the costs of voter
registration and getoutthevote activities conducted by the
committee if the payments are not for the costs of campaign materials or activities
used in connection with any telecommunications system, newspaper, magazine,
billboard, direct mail or similar type of general public communication or
political advertising.
(e)Any deposit or other payment filed with the
secretary of state or any other similar officer to pay any portion of the cost
of printing an argument in a publicity pamphlet advocating or opposing a ballot
measure.
10."Exploratory
committee" means a political committee that is formed for the purpose of
determining whether an individual will become a candidate and that receives
contributions or makes expenditures of more than five hundred dollars in
connection with that purpose.
11.10."Family
contribution" means any contribution that is provided to a candidate's
campaign committee by a parent, grandparent, spouse, child or sibling of the
candidate or a parent or spouse of any of those persons.
12.11."Filing
officer" means the office that is designated by section 16916 to
conduct the duties prescribed by this chapter.
13.12."Identification"
means:
(a)For an individual, his name and mailing address,
his occupation and the name of his employer.
(b)For any other person, including a political
committee, the full name and mailing address of the person.For a
political committee, identification includes the identification number issued
on the filing of a statement of organization pursuant to section 16902.01.
14.13."Incomplete
contribution" means any contribution received by a political committee for
which the contributor's mailing address, occupation, employer or identification
number has not been obtained and is not in the possession of the political
committee.
15.14."Independent
expenditure" means an expenditure by a person or political committee,
other than a candidate's campaign committee, that expressly advocates the
election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate, that is made without
cooperation or consultation with any candidate or committee or agent of the
candidate and that is not made in concert with or at the request or suggestion
of a candidate, or any committee or agent of the candidate. Independent
expenditure includes an expenditure that is subject to the requirements of
section 16917, which requires a copy of campaign literature or advertisement
to be sent to a candidate named or otherwise referred to in the literature or
advertisement.
16.15."Inkind
contribution" means a contribution of goods or services or anything of
value and not a monetary contribution. The use by a candidate's campaign
committee of a distinctive trade name, trademark or trade dress item, including
a logo, that is owned by a business or other entity that is owned by that
candidate or in which the candidate has a controlling interest is deemed to be
an inkind contribution to the candidate's campaign committee and shall
be reported as otherwise prescribed by law.
17.16."Itemized"
means that each contribution received or expenditure made is set forth
separately.
18.17."Literature
or advertisement" means information or materials that are mailed,
distributed or placed in some medium of communication for the purpose of
influencing the outcome of an election.
19.18."Personal monies"
means any of the following:
(a)Except as
prescribed in paragraph 16 15 of this section, assets to
which the candidate has a legal right of access or control at the time he
becomes a candidate and with respect to which the candidate has either legal
title or an equitable interest.
(b)Salary and other earned income from bona fide employment
of the candidate, dividends and proceeds from the sale of the stocks or
investments of the candidate, bequests to the candidate, income to the
candidate from trusts established before candidacy, income to the candidate
from trusts established by bequest after candidacy of which the candidate is a
beneficiary, gifts to the candidate of a personal nature that have been
customarily received before the candidacy and proceeds received by the
candidate from lotteries and other legal games of chance.
(c)The proceeds of loans obtained by the candidate
that are not contributions and for which the collateral or security is covered
by subdivision (a) or (b) of this paragraph.
(d)Family contributions.
20.19."Political
committee" means any of the following:
(a)A candidate or a candidate's campaign committee.
(b)A separate, segregated fund established pursuant
to section 16920, subsection A, paragraph 3.
(c)An association or combination of persons that
circulates petitions in support of the qualification of a ballot measure,
question or proposition.
(d)An association or combination of persons that
circulates a petition to recall a public officer.
(e)A political party.
(f)An association or combination of persons that
meets both of the following requirements:
(i)Is organized, conducted or combined for the
primary purpose of influencing the result of any election in this state or in
any county, city, town or other political subdivision in this state, including
a judicial retention election.
(ii)Knowingly receives contributions or makes
expenditures of more than five hundred dollars in connection with any election
during a calendar year, including a judicial retention election.
(g)A political organization.
(h)An
exploratory committee.
21.20."Political
organization" means an organization that is formally affiliated with and
recognized by a political party including a district committee organized
pursuant to section 16823.
22.21."Political
party" means the state committee as prescribed by section 16825 or
the county committee as prescribed by section 16821 of an organization
that meets the requirements for recognition as a political party pursuant to
section 16801, 16802 or 16804.
23.22."Sponsoring
organization" means any organization that establishes, administers or
contributes financial support to the administration of, or that has common or
overlapping membership or officers with, a political committee other than a
candidate's campaign committee.
24.23."Standing
political committee" means a political committee that satisfies all of the
following:
(a)Is active in more than one reporting
jurisdiction in this state for more than one year.
(b)Files a statement of organization as prescribed
by section 16902.01, subsection F.
(c)Is any of the following as defined by paragraph 20 19 of this section:
(i)A separate, segregated fund.
(ii)A political party.
(iii)A political committee as prescribed by
paragraph 20 19, subdivision (f) of this section and that
is organized for the purpose of making independent expenditures.
(iv)A political organization.
25.24."Statewide
office" means the office of governor, secretary of state, state treasurer,
attorney general, superintendent of public instruction, corporation commissioner
or mine inspector.
26.25."Surplus
monies" means those monies of a political committee remaining after all of
the committee's expenditures have been made and its debts have been
extinguished. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-902, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-902.Organization of political committees
A.Each political committee shall have a chairman
and treasurer. The position of chairman and treasurer of a single political
committee may not be held by the same individual, except that a candidate may
be chairman and treasurer of the candidate's own campaign committee.
B.The name of each political committee shall
include the name of any sponsoring organization, and, in the case of a
candidate's campaign committee, the committee's name shall include the name of
the candidate, or, if for an exploratory
committee, the individual, who designated the committee pursuant to section 16903.
C.A political committee that accepts contributions
or makes expenditures shall deposit contributions and make expenditures from
one or more state banks, federally chartered depository institutions or
depository institutions the deposits or accounts of which are insured by the
federal deposit insurance corporation or the national credit union
administration as its campaign depository or depositories.The
political committee shall notify the filing officer of the name of the
financial institution at the time of filing the statement of organization
pursuant to section 16902.01 or 16903.On meeting the
definition of political committee pursuant to section 16901, all
withdrawals or disbursements from these accounts require the signature of the
treasurer or a designated agent of the political committee. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 16-902.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-902.01.Registration of political committees; contents; amendment
A.Except for a political committee as defined in
section 16901, paragraph 20 19, subdivision (f), each
political committee that intends to accept contributions or make expenditures
of more than five hundred dollars shall file a statement of organization with
the filing officer in the format prescribed by the filing officer before
accepting contributions, making expenditures, distributing any campaign
literature or circulating petitions. A political committee as defined in
section 16901, paragraph 20 19, subdivision (f) shall file
a statement of organization with the filing officer in the format prescribed by
the filing officer within five business days after meeting the definition of
political committee.
B.Except for a political committee as defined in
section 16-901, paragraph 20 19, subdivision (f), each
political committee that intends to accept contributions or make expenditures
of five hundred dollars or less shall file a signed exemption statement in a
form prescribed by the filing officer that states that intention before making
any expenditures, accepting any contributions, distributing any campaign
literature or circulating petitions.If a political committee that
has filed a five hundred dollar threshold exemption statement receives
contributions or makes expenditures of more than five hundred dollars, that
political committee shall file a statement of organization with the filing
officer in the format prescribed by the filing officer within five business
days after exceeding the five hundred dollar limit.
C.The statement of organization of a political
committee shall include all of the following:
1.The name, address and type of committee.
2.The name, address, relationship and type of any
sponsoring organization.
3.The names, addresses, telephone numbers,
occupations and employers of the chairman and treasurer of the committee.
4.In the case of a candidate's campaign committee,
the name, address, office sought and party affiliation of the candidate.
5.A listing of all banks, safety deposit boxes or
other depositories used by the committee.
6.A statement that the chairman and treasurer have
read all of the applicable laws relating to campaign finance and reporting.
D.Except as prescribed by subsection F of this
section, on the filing of a statement of organization, a political committee
shall be issued an identification number in the format prescribed by the filing
officer.
E.The political committee shall file an amended statement
of organization reporting any change in the information prescribed in
subsections C and G of this section within five business days after the change.
F.A standing political committee shall file a
statement of organization with the secretary of state and in each jurisdiction
in which the committee is active, and only the secretary of state shall issue
an identification number for the committee. The statement of organization
shall include a statement with the notarized signature of the chairman or treasurer
of the standing political committee that declares the committee's status as a
standing political committee. The secretary of state may charge an annual fee
for the filing.
G.For a political committee that makes expenditures
in an attempt to influence the results of a ballot proposition election, the
statement of organization shall include in the name of the political committee
the official serial number for the petition, if assigned, and a statement as to
whether the political committee supports or opposes the passage of the ballot
measure. On completion of the designation of statewide ballot propositions by
number as prescribed in section 19125, the secretary of state is
authorized to and shall amend the name of the political committee by attaching
to the statement of organization the ballot proposition number as a substitute
for the official serial number in the name of the political
committee.The secretary of state shall promptly notify the
political committee of the amended political committee name and shall make that
information available to the public. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 16-903, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-903.Candidate's campaign committees; designation; candidate as
agent; civil penalty
A.Each candidate who intends to receive
contributions or make expenditures of more than five hundred dollars in
connection with a campaign for office shall designate in the format prescribed
by the filing officer a
one or more political committee committees for each election cycle to serve as
the candidate's campaign committee.The candidate shall make the
designation pursuant to this subsection by filing a statement of organization
before making any expenditures, accepting any contributions, distributing any
campaign literature or circulating any petitions.Each candidate who
intends to receive contributions or make expenditures of five hundred dollars
or less shall file a signed exemption statement in the format prescribed by the
filing officer that states that intention before making any expenditures,
accepting any contributions, distributing any campaign literature or
circulating petitions.If a candidate who has filed a five hundred
dollar exemption statement receives contributions or makes expenditures of more
than five hundred dollars, that candidate shall file a statement of
organization with the filing officer within five business days after exceeding
the five hundred dollar limit.
B.An
individual who receives contributions or makes expenditures of more than five
hundred dollars for the purpose of determining whether the individual will
become a candidate for election to an office in this state shall designate in
the format prescribed by the filing officer a political committee to serve as
the individual's exploratory committee. The individual shall make the
designation pursuant to this subsection before making any expenditures,
accepting any contributions, circulating any petitions or distributing any
campaign literature.
C.B.An individual may have only one exploratory committee in
existence at one time. A candidate may have only one any number of campaign committee committees designated for each any
election cycle, but a candidate may have more than one campaign
committee simultaneously in existence including committees for multiple offices.
D.C.A political
committee that supports or has supported another candidate or more than one
candidate may not be designated as a candidate's campaign committee.
E.D.Any candidate who
receives a contribution or any loan for use in connection with the campaign of
that candidate for election or who makes a disbursement in connection with that
campaign shall be deemed as having received the contribution or loan or as
having made the disbursement as an agent of the candidate's campaign committee
for purposes of this article.
F.E.An elected
official is not deemed to have offered himself for nomination or election to an
office within the meaning of section 38296 solely by the elected
official's designation of a candidate campaign committee.
G.After
designating an exploratory committee, a candidate may lawfully collect
signatures on nomination petitions and receive contributions.
H.F.A person who
violates this section is subject to a civil penalty imposed as prescribed in
section 16924 of up to three times the amount of money that has been
received, expended or promised in violation of this section or up to three
times the value in money for an equivalent of money or other things of value
that have been received, expended or promised in violation of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 16-905, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-905.Contribution limitations; civil penalty; complaint;
reductions
A.For an election other than for a statewide
office, a contributor shall not give and an
exploratory committee, a candidate or a candidate's campaign
committee shall not accept contributions of more than:
1.For an election for a legislative office, six
thousand two hundred fifty dollars per election cycle from an individual.
2.For an election other than for a legislative
office, six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per election cycle from an
individual.
3.For an election for a legislative office, six
thousand two hundred fifty dollars per election cycle from a single political
committee, excluding a political party, not certified under subsection G of
this section to make contributions at the higher limits prescribed by paragraph
5 of this subsection and subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section.
4.For an election other than for a legislative
office, six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per election cycle from a single
political committee, excluding a political party, not certified under
subsection G of this section to make contributions at the higher limits
prescribed by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section.
5.Twelve thousand five hundred dollars per election
cycle from a single political committee that is certified pursuant to
subsection G of this section, excluding a political party.
6.Six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per
election cycle from a single partnership. Contributions from a partnership
shall be allocated to the individual partners who are contributing, as
designated by the partnership.Partnership contributions from
designated partners shall be combined with other contributions by that
individual partner to the same recipient and are subject to the limits on an
individual prescribed by this section. Nonpartnership monies that are
contributed by an individual shall not be counted against the partnership contribution
limit for that same recipient.
B.For an election for a statewide office, a
contributor shall not give and an
exploratory committee, a candidate or a candidate's committee
shall not accept contributions of more than:
1.Six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per
election cycle from an individual.
2.Six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per
election cycle from a single political committee, excluding a political party,
not certified under subsection G of this section to make contributions at the
higher limits prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section and
paragraph 3 of this subsection.
3.Twelve thousand five hundred dollars per election
cycle from a single political committee that is certified pursuant to
subsection G of this section, excluding a political party.
4.Six thousand two hundred fifty dollars per
election cycle from a single partnership.Contributions from a
partnership shall be allocated to the individual partners who are contributing,
as designated by the partnership.Partnership contributions from
designated partners shall be combined with other contributions by that
individual partner to the same recipient and are subject to the limits on an
individual prescribed by this section. Nonpartnership monies that are contributed
by an individual shall not be counted against the partnership contribution
limit for that same recipient.
C.A candidate may accept contributions from
political committees, excluding political parties, as otherwise prescribed in
this section and a candidate is not restricted as to the aggregate total that a
candidate may lawfully receive from all political committees, excluding
political parties.
D.A nominee of a political party shall not accept
contributions from all political parties or political organizations combined
totaling more than ten thousand dollars for an election for an office other
than a statewide office, and one hundred thousand dollars for an election for a
statewide office.
E.An individual may make contributions as otherwise
prescribed by this section, and an individual is not restricted as to the
aggregate total that an individual may give.An individual may make
an otherwise lawful contribution using personal monies contained in a revocable
trust, which shall be reported as an individual contribution and which is
subject to the limits on an individual contribution.
F.A candidate's campaign committee or an individual's exploratory committee shall
not make a loan and shall not transfer or contribute money to any other campaign
or exploratory committee
that is designated pursuant to this chapter or 52 United States Code section
30101 except as follows:
1.An
exploratory committee may transfer monies to a subsequent candidate's campaign
committee of the individual designating the exploratory committee, subject to
the limits of subsection B of this section.
2.that a candidate's campaign
committee may transfer or contribute monies to another campaign committee
designated by the same candidate as follows:
(a)1.Subject to the
contribution limits of this section per contributor, transfer or contribute
monies in the aggregate from one committee to another if both committees have
been designated for an election in the same year including to a committee for
another office or in another jurisdiction.
(b)2.Without
application of the contribution limits of this section, transfer or contribute
monies from one committee to another designated for an election in a subsequent
year.
G.Only political committees that received monies
from five hundred or more individuals in amounts of ten dollars or more in the
two year period immediately before application to the secretary of state for
qualification as a political committee pursuant to this section may make
contributions to candidates under subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section and
subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section. The secretary of state shall obtain
information necessary to make the determination that a committee meets the
requirements of this subsection and shall provide written certification of the
fact to the committee. A political committee certification is valid for four
years. A candidate's campaign committee shall not accept a contribution
pursuant to this subsection unless it is accompanied by a copy of the certification.All
political committees that do not meet the requirements of this subsection are
subject to the individual campaign contribution limits of subsection A,
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section and subsection B, paragraph 1 of this
section.
H.The secretary of state biennially shall adjust to
the nearest ten dollars the amounts in subsections A through E of this section
by the percentage change in the consumer price index and publish the new
amounts for distribution to election officials, candidates and campaign
committees. For the purposes of this subsection, "consumer price
index" means the consumer price index for all urban consumers, United
States city average, that is published by the United States department of
labor, bureau of labor statistics.
I.The following specific limitations and procedures
apply:
1.The limits of subsections A through E of this
section apply to each election cycle for any office or offices that the
candidate seeks.
2.The limits of subsections A and B of this section
apply to the total contributions from all separate segregated funds
established, as provided in section 16920, by a corporation, labor
organization, trade association, cooperative or corporation without capital
stock.
3.A contribution by an unemancipated minor child
shall be treated as a contribution by the child's custodial parent or parents
for determining compliance with subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2, subsection B,
paragraph 1 and subsection E of this section.
4.A contribution by an individual or a single
political committee to two or more candidates in connection with a joint fundraising
effort shall be divided among the candidates in direct proportion to each
candidate campaign committee's share of the expenses for the fundraising
effort.
5.A candidate shall sign and file with the
candidate's nomination paper a statement that the candidate has read all
applicable laws relating to campaign financing and reporting.
6.After the general election, all contributions may
be combined for use in a subsequent election cycle.
7.An individual or political committee shall not
use economic influence to induce members of an organization to make
contributions to a candidate, collect contributions from members of an
organization for transmittal to a candidate, make payments to candidates for
public appearances or services that are ordinarily uncompensated or use any
similar device to circumvent any of the limitations of this section.
J.A person who violates this section is subject to
a civil penalty imposed as prescribed in section 16924 of three times
the amount of money that has been received, expended or promised in violation
of this section or three times the value in money for an equivalent of money or
other things of value that have been received, expended or promised in
violation of this section.
K.Any qualified elector may file a sworn complaint
with the attorney general or the county attorney of the county in which a
violation of this section is believed to have occurred, and the attorney
general or the county attorney shall investigate the complaint for possible
action.
L.If the filing officer, attorney general or county
attorney fails to institute an action within fortyfive working days
after receiving a complaint under subsection K of this section, the individual
filing the complaint may bring a civil action in the individual's own name and
at the individual's own expense, with the same effect as if brought by the
filing officer, attorney general or county attorney. The individual shall execute
a bond payable to the defendant if the individual fails to prosecute the action
successfully.The court shall award to the prevailing party costs
and reasonable attorney fees.
M.If a provision of this section or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section that can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of
this section are severable.
N.The use of a candidate's personal monies, or the use of personal monies by an
individual who designates an exploratory committee, is not
subject to the limitations of this section. 
O.For any statewide or legislative candidate who is
not participating in the citizens clean elections act funding system
established pursuant to article 2 of this chapter:
1.Complaints and investigations relating to an
alleged violation of this article are subject only to the jurisdiction,
penalties and procedures established pursuant to this article and the
enforcement and investigative authority of the secretary of state and attorney
general.
2.The citizens clean elections commission has no
authority to accept, investigate or otherwise act on any complaint involving an
alleged violation of this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 16-913, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-913.Campaign finance reports; reporting of receipts and
disbursements; exemptions; civil penalty
A.Except as provided in subsection K of this
section, each political committee shall file campaign finance reports in the
format prescribed by the filing officer setting forth the committee's receipts
and disbursements according to the schedule prescribed in subsections B and C
of this section.
B.In any calendar year during which there is a
regularly scheduled election at which any candidates, measures, questions or
propositions appear or may appear on the ballot, the political committee shall
file each of the following campaign finance reports:
1.A report covering the period beginning January 1
through May 31, filed no later than June 30.
2.A preelection report,
that shall be filed not less than four days before any election and that shall
be complete through the twelfth day before the election.
3.A postelection report, that shall be filed not
more than thirty days after any election and that shall be complete through the
twentieth day after the election.
C.In any other calendar year, the political
committee shall file a report covering the period beginning twentyone
days after the date of the election in the preceding calendar year through
December 31 of the nonelection year filed no later than January 31 of the
following calendar year. For a special election for which the secretary of
state is the filing officer, a political committee that receives contributions
or makes expenditures to influence that election shall file the following:
1.For an initiative, referendum or recall, a
preelection report that is due within fifteen days of filing the petition with
the secretary of state and that is current
through the date the petition was filed.
2.A preelection report that is due within fifteen days
of the governor's proclamation calling the special election and that is current through the date of the
governor's proclamation.
3.A preelection report that is due as prescribed by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section.
4.A postelection report that is due as prescribed
by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section.
D.In the event that a political committee receives
no contributions and makes no expenditures during a period in which it is
required to file a campaign finance report, the committee treasurer or if the
treasurer is unavailable the candidate, in lieu of filing a report required by
subsection B of this section, may sign and file a form prescribed by the
secretary of state indicating no activity during the specific reporting period.
E.In lieu of the reports prescribed in subsections
B and C of this section, a candidate's political committee that remains active
after an election due to outstanding debts may file a document no later than
January 31 in a form prescribed by the secretary of state that states that the
committee does not intend to receive any contributions or make any expenditures
during the year.If a candidate's political committee does receive a
contribution or make an expenditure during that year, the committee shall report
as prescribed by subsection B or C of this section.
F.A judge who has filed a declaration of the desire
to be retained in office is exempt from filing any report required by this
section if the judge, not later than twelve days before the general election,
files a statement signed and sworn to by the judge certifying that the judge
has received no contributions, has made no expenditures and has no campaign
committee and that the judge does not intend to receive contributions, make
expenditures or have a campaign committee for the purpose of influencing the
result of the vote on the question of the judge's retention.With
respect to superior court judges, a statement filed pursuant to this subsection
is effective until the earlier of twelve days before the third general election
following the filing of this statement or the judge receives contributions,
makes expenditures or authorizes a campaign committee.Such a
statement filed by a supreme court justice or a court of appeals judge is effective
until the earlier of twelve days before the fourth general election following
the filing of this statement or the justice or judge receives contributions,
makes expenditures or authorizes a campaign committee.
G.Reports in connection with special or recall elections
shall conform to the filing deadlines set forth in subsections B and C of this
section.
H.Except as provided in section 16916,
subsection B and subsection K of this section, a political committee shall
comply with the requirements of this section in each jurisdiction in this state
in which the committee has filed a statement of organization until the
committee terminates pursuant to section 16914, and its statements,
designations and reports shall be filed with each officer with whom it has filed
a statement of organization, as appropriate.
I.Each report required to be filed pursuant to this
section shall be signed by the committee treasurer or the candidate or the
designating individual if the treasurer is unavailable and shall contain the certification
of the signer under penalty of perjury that the report is true and complete.
J.A political committee and the candidate, in the
case of a candidate's campaign committee, or the designating individual, in the case of an exploratory committee,
who violate this section are subject to the penalty prescribed in section 16918.
K.A standing political committee shall file reports
with the secretary of state and is exempt from filing a report with any other
jurisdiction in which it is active. The reports shall be in an electronic
format as prescribed by the secretary of state or by use of the internet. The
secretary of state shall promptly make the reports available to the public on
the internet and shall make the reports available by electronic means by
request. The standing committee shall file the following reports:
1.A preelection report that is due as prescribed by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section shall be filed for each consolidated
election date prescribed by section 16204.
2.A postelection report that is due as prescribed
by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section shall be filed for each
consolidated election date prescribed by section 16204.
3.An annual report that is due by January 31 in the
year immediately following the calendar year that is the subject of the report.
END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 16-914, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-914.Termination statement
A.Except as prescribed by subsection C of this
section and section 16904, subsection F, a political committee may
terminate only when the committee chairman and treasurer file a statement with
the officer with whom the committee's statement of organization is filed in the
format prescribed by the filing officer certifying under penalty of perjury
that it will no longer receive any contributions or make any disbursements,
that the committee has no outstanding debts or obligations and that any surplus
monies have been disposed of pursuant to section 16915.01 together with
a statement of the manner of disposition of the surplus, the name and address
of each recipient of surplus monies and the date and amount of each disposition
of surplus monies.For a political committee that is an individual's exploratory committee or a
candidate's campaign committee, the committee may transfer the committee's
debts and obligations to a subsequent committee for that individual or candidate, as prescribed by section
16915.01, and in that event may terminate without certifying that the
committee has no outstanding debts or obligations. 
B.After the filing of an appropriate termination
statement, a political committee is not required to file any subsequent campaign
finance reports and shall have no further receipts or disbursements without
filing a new statement of organization.
C.A political committee may terminate its
activities in a reporting jurisdiction and remain active in other jurisdictions
by attaching a statement to the reporting jurisdiction's termination statement
that is signed by the committee's chairman and treasurer, that attests to the
intent to remain active in other jurisdictions and that contains a statement
that the committee's remaining monies shall be used for activities in other
jurisdictions. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 16-915.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-915.01.Disposal of surplus monies; transfer of debt
A.A political committee shall dispose of surplus
monies only as follows:
1.Retain surplus monies for use in a subsequent
election, which includes a transfer by an
individual's exploratory committee or a candidate's campaign
committee to that individual's subsequent
exploratory committee or that candidate's campaign committee
designated for a subsequent election.
2.Return surplus monies to the contributor to the
extent records are available permitting such return.
3.Contribute surplus monies to the county, state or
local committee of a political party.
4.Donate the surplus monies to a charitable
organization that qualifies under section 501(c)(3) of the United States
internal revenue code.
5.In the case of a political committee other than an individual's exploratory committee or
a candidate's committee, contribute surplus monies to a candidate's campaign
committee if the contribution is within the limitations of section 16905.
6.Donate surplus monies to a political committee
other than an individual's exploratory
committee or to a candidate's campaign committee.
7.Subject to the restrictions in section 41133,
contribute surplus monies to the individual's officeholder expense account.
8.Dispose of the surplus monies in any other lawful
manner.
B.Surplus monies shall not be used for or converted
to the personal use of the designating
individual, in the case of an individual's exploratory committee, or a
candidate, in the case of a candidate's campaign committee, or any person
related to the candidate by blood or marriage.Nothing in This subsection precludes does not preclude the repayment of a loan made
by the designating individual or
candidate to his campaign.
C.An
individual's exploratory committee or A candidate's campaign
committee may transfer its debts and obligations to that individual's subsequent exploratory committee or that
candidate's campaign committee designated for a subsequent election. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 16-918, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-918.Campaign finance reports; notice; civil penalty;
prohibition on candidacy
A.If a political committee fails to file a report
in a timely manner as required by this chapter, the filing officer shall send
written notice of the delinquency of the report to the political committee and
the candidate, in the case of the candidate's campaign committee, or to the designating individual, in the case of an
individual's exploratory committee. The notice shall be sent by
certified mail within fifteen days after the filing officer determines there
may be a failure to file a campaign finance report.The notice shall
provide with reasonable particularity the nature of the failure and a statement
of the penalties provided in this section.
B.A political committee, or, in the case of a candidate's campaign
committee, the candidate, or in the case
of an exploratory committee, the designating individual, is
liable for a late penalty of ten dollars for each business day after failure to
make or file a campaign finance report that is required pursuant to this
chapter up to a maximum of four hundred fifty dollars. For filings for an
officeholder expense account pursuant to section 41133, the late penalty
is five dollars for each day after failure to make or file the campaign finance
report, and the late penalty shall not accrue on days during which the office
of the secretary of state is not open for business.A late penalty
accrues only until the day the late report is filed and the filing officer
shall not refuse a campaign finance report except if penalties imposed pursuant
to section 16924 are unpaid at the time of filing the report. Beginning
on the thirty-first day after the due date, the filing officer may notify the
appropriate enforcement officer under section 16924 that a violation has
occurred and that late fees and civil penalties are owed as prescribed in
subsection C of this section and may be collected in an enforcement action
pursuant to section 16924.
C.A political committee, or, in the case of a candidate's campaign
committee, the candidate, or in the case
of an exploratory committee, the designating individual, that has
failed to file within fifteen days after receiving a notice of delinquency
pursuant to subsection A of this section is liable for a civil penalty of
twentyfive dollars for each subsequent day that the filing is late.
This penalty shall be assessed pursuant to section 16924.
D.For the purposes of this section, there is a
failure to make and file a campaign finance report by the treasurer, the designating individual, in the case of an
exploratory committee, the candidate, in the case of a
candidate's campaign committee, and for all other political committees, the
chairman, if any of the following occurs:
1.The report is not filed in a timely manner as
prescribed by section 16913.
2.The report is not signed in accordance with
section 16913.
3.A good faith effort is not made to substantially
complete the report as prescribed by section 16915.
E.It is a defense to an enforcement action brought
pursuant to this section if good cause is shown by the treasurer, the designating individual, in the case of an exploratory
committee, or the candidate, in the case of a candidate's
campaign committee, for the failure to make and file a campaign finance
report. For the purposes of this subsection, "good cause" includes
an illness or absence from this state at the time the campaign finance report
was due or the written notice of delinquency was delivered if the illness or
absence reasonably prevented the treasurer, designating individual or candidate
from filing the report or receiving the written notice.
F.In addition to the enforcement actions prescribed
by this section, a person who was a candidate for nomination or election to any
local or state office and who after written notice pursuant to this section
failed to make and file a campaign finance report as required by this chapter
is not eligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to any local or
state office for five years after the last failure to make and file a campaign
finance report occurred. This penalty shall be imposed as follows:
1.A candidate's failure to make and file a campaign
finance report with a filing officer for a jurisdiction is grounds for that
filing officer to refuse the candidate's nomination paper for any public office
in that jurisdiction as described in this subsection.
2.A candidate's failure to make and file a campaign
finance report with any filing officer is grounds for a filing officer from
another jurisdiction to refuse the candidate's nomination paper for any public
office on presentation of a certified copy of a final order issued pursuant to
section 16924.
G.For a standing political committee, in addition
to any late penalty and civil penalty assessed pursuant to this section, if the
standing political committee makes a late filing three or more times, the
standing political committee is no longer eligible for consolidated filing
status pursuant to section 16913, subsection K and shall make all of its
filings in each reporting jurisdiction in which it is active.
H.For any political committee that has failed to
file three consecutive campaign finance reports with the filing officer as
prescribed by section 16913, the filing officer shall send the committee
chairman and treasurer a written notice of intent to suspend the political
committee. The notice of intent to suspend shall state that failure of the
political committee to fully comply with all filing requirements for that
committee, including any required payments, within thirty days of the date of
the notice shall result in suspension of the political committee's authority to
operate in that jurisdiction.On suspension of the political
committee's authority to operate, the filing officer is no longer required to
provide any further notice of delinquency to the political committee. This
subsection does not reduce or eliminate the political committee's continuing
obligation to make campaign finance filings and pay any fines, penalties, civil
penalties or other sanctions that may continue to accrue as otherwise provided
by law. This subsection does not apply to reports required pursuant to article
2 of this chapter or to a candidate's campaign committee designated by that
candidate pursuant to section 16903 during that election cycle. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 16-919, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-919.Prohibition of contributions by corporations, limited
liability companies or labor organizations; exemption; violation;
classification; definitions
A.Except as provided in section 16-914.02, it is
unlawful for a corporation or a limited liability company to make an
expenditure or any contribution of money or anything of value for the purpose
of influencing an election, and it is unlawful for the designating individual who formed an exploratory
committee, an exploratory committee, a candidate or a candidate's
campaign committee to accept any contribution of money or anything of value
from a corporation or a limited liability company for the purpose of
influencing an election.This subsection does not apply to political
committees that are incorporated pursuant to title 10, chapters 24 through 40
and political committees that are organized as limited liability companies.
B.Except as provided in section 16914.02, it
is unlawful for a labor organization to make an expenditure or any contribution
of money or anything of value for the purpose of influencing an election.
C.Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this
section, a corporation, limited liability company or labor organization may
contribute to an independent expenditure committee.
D.A corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization that violates this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
E.The person through whom the violation is effected
is guilty of a class 6 felony.
F.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a
political committee that is incorporated only for the purposes of liability
limitation may make contributions for the purpose of influencing an election.
Notwithstanding the corporate status of a political committee, the chairman and
treasurer of an incorporated political committee remain personally responsible
for carrying out their respective duties under this article.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Election" means any election to any
political office, any election to any political convention or caucus or any
primary election held for the purpose of selecting any candidate, political
committee or other person for any political office, convention or caucus.
2."Employee" includes any employee, is
not limited to the employees of a particular employer and includes any
individual whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with,
any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor practice.
3."Employer" includes any person acting
as an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly.
4."Labor organization" means any
organization of any kind or any agency or employee representation committee or
plan in which employees participate and that exists for the purpose in whole or
in part of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages,
rates of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 16-947, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-947.Certification as a participating candidate
A.A candidate who wishes to be certified as a
participating candidate shall file, before the end of the qualifying period, an
application with the secretary of state, in a form specified by the citizens
clean elections commission.
B.The application shall identify the candidate, the
office that the candidate plans to seek and the candidate's party, if any, and
shall contain the candidate's signature, under oath, certifying that:
1.The candidate has complied with the restrictions
of section 16941, subsection A during the election cycle to date.
2.The candidate's campaign committee and exploratory committee have has filed all campaign finance reports
required under article 1 of this chapter during the election cycle to date and
that they are complete and accurate.
3.The candidate will comply with the requirements
of section 16941, subsection A during the remainder of the election
cycle and, specifically, will not accept private contributions.
C.The commission shall act on the application
within one week. Unless, within that time, the commission denies an application
and provides written reasons that all or part of a certification in subsection
B of this section is incomplete or untrue, the candidate shall be certified as
a participating candidate.If the commission denies an application
for failure to file all complete and accurate campaign finance reports or
failure to make the certification in subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section,
the candidate may reapply within two weeks of the commission's decision by
filing complete and accurate campaign finance reports and another sworn
certification.
D.A candidate shall be denied certification if that
candidate was removed from office by the commission or if the candidate is
delinquent in payment of a debt to the commission. If the debt is paid in full
or if the candidate is current on a payment agreement with the commission, the
candidate may apply for certification as a participating candidate and is eligible
to be certified if otherwise qualified by law.END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 16-961, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-961.Definitions
A.The terms "candidate's campaign
committee," "contribution," "expenditures," "exploratory committee,"
"independent expenditure," "personal monies,"
"political committee" and "statewide office" are defined in
section 16901.
B.1."Election cycle" means
the period between successive general elections for a particular office.
2."Exploratory period" means the period
beginning on the day after a general election and ending the day before the
start of the qualifying period.
3."Qualifying period" means the period
beginning on the first day of August in a year preceding an election and ending
one week before the primary election.
4."Primary election period" means the
nineweek period ending on the day of the primary election.
5."General election period" means the
period beginning on the day after the primary election and ending on the day of
the general election.
6.For any recall election, the qualifying period shall
begin when the election is called and last for thirty days, there shall be no
primary election period and the general election period shall extend from the
day after the end of the qualifying period to the day of the recall election.
For recall elections, any reference to "general election" in this
article shall be treated as if referring to the recall election.
C.1."Participating candidate"
means a candidate who becomes certified as a participating candidate pursuant
to section 16947.
2."Nonparticipating candidate" means a
candidate who does not become certified as a participating candidate pursuant
to section 16947.
3.Any limitation of this article that is applicable
to a participating candidate or a nonparticipating candidate shall also apply
to that candidate's campaign committee or exploratory committee.
D."Commission" means the citizens clean
elections commission established pursuant to section 16955.
E."Fund" means the citizens clean
elections fund defined by this article.
F.1."Party nominee" means a
person who has been nominated by a political party pursuant to section 16301
or 16343.
2."Independent candidate" means a
candidate who has properly filed nominating papers and nominating petitions
with signatures pursuant to section 16341.
3."Unopposed"
means with reference to an election for:
(a)A member of the
house of representatives, opposed by no more than one other candidate who has
qualified for the ballot and who is running in the same district.
(b)A member of the corporation commission, opposed
by a number of candidates who have qualified for the ballot that is fewer than
the number of corporation commission seats open at that election and for which
the term of office ends on the same date.
(c)All other offices, opposed by no other candidate
who has qualified for the ballot and who is running in that district or running
for that same office and term.
G."Primary election spending limits"
means:
1.For a candidate for the legislature, twelve
thousand nine hundred twenty-one dollars.
2.For a candidate for mine inspector, fortyone
thousand three hundred forty-nine dollars.
3.For a candidate for treasurer, superintendent of
public instruction or the corporation commission, eightytwo thousand six
hundred eighty dollars.
4.For a candidate for secretary of state or
attorney general, one hundred sixtyfive thousand three hundred
seventy-eight dollars.
5.For a candidate for governor, six hundred thirtyeight
thousand two hundred twentytwo dollars.
H."General election spending limits"
means amounts fifty per cent
percent greater than the
amounts specified in subsection G of this section.
I.1."Original" spending limit
means a limit specified in subsections G and H of this section, as adjusted
pursuant to section 16959, or a special amount expressly set for a
particular candidate by a provision of this title.
2."Adjusted" spending limit means an
original spending limit as further adjusted pursuant to section 16952. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 41-133, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-133.Officeholder expenses; account; reporting; limitations;
civil penalty; definition
A.Any person who holds elected statewide public
office or a legislative office in this state, whether by election or
appointment, may receive or spend monies to defray the costs of performing
officeholder duties as follows:
1.An officeholder may receive contributions pursuant
to this section only from individuals, and the maximum amount that may be
received from an individual during an election cycle is one hundred fifty
dollars.
2.The total amount that an officeholder may receive
or spend pursuant to this section during an election cycle is ninety-eight
thousand three hundred sixty dollars for the governor, fiftyone thousand
six hundred eighty dollars for the secretary of state and the attorney general,
twentyfive thousand eight hundred forty dollars for all other statewide
officeholders and nine thousand eight hundred dollars for a legislator, which
may include personal monies as prescribed by paragraph 3 of this
subsection.The secretary of state shall adjust this amount
biennially as prescribed in section 16905, subsection H.
3.An officeholder may contribute up to thirty per cent percent of the limits as prescribed by
paragraph 2 of this subsection of the officeholder's personal monies to the
officeholder's expense account.
B.For an officeholder's future campaign monies
received do not constitute a contribution as defined in section 16901 if
the monies are received, expended and reported as prescribed in this section.
C.An officeholder shall establish a separate
account for officeholder expenses, which shall be separate from any candidate
campaign account. The officeholder shall file a statement of organization for
the account designated as an officeholder expense account. Monies raised or
spent for officeholder expenses shall be reported under campaign finance
reporting requirements pursuant to title 16, chapter 6, article 1.
D.An officeholder shall not use monies in the
officeholder account for campaign purposes. Permissible uses of monies in an
officeholder account include the following:
1.Office equipment and supplies.
2.Travel related to the officeholder's duties.
3.Meeting or communicating with constituents.
4.Expenses for informational and educational
purposes, including subscriptions to newspapers, magazines or other periodicals
or websites or other informational services, membership or participation in
community, professional or fraternal organizations and participation in
conferences and seminars.
E.An officeholder shall not receive or spend monies
from the officeholder account during the period beginning April 30 in an
election year, shall complete the purchase or otherwise use the item before
April 30 in an election year and shall not spend those monies until after the
day of the general election.Any monies remaining in the officeholder
expense account beginning April 30 in an election year may not be used except
as follows:
1.Paid to the state general fund.
2.For a person who continues to hold office as
prescribed in this section, carried forward to an officeholder expense account
for another office or term of office, subject to the limitations prescribed by
this section.
3.Donated to a political committee other than a person's exploratory committee or a
candidate's campaign committee, unless the officeholder continues to hold office
as prescribed in this section or the officeholder holds any other elected
office immediately following completion of the officeholder's term.
4.Donated to an organization that qualifies under
section 501(c)(4) of the United States internal revenue code, unless the
officeholder continues to hold office as prescribed in this section or the
officeholder holds any other elected office immediately following completion of
the officeholder's term.
F.Except as prescribed in subsection E of this
section, an officeholder shall not transfer officeholder account monies to any
other account or committee except for another officeholder account for that
same officeholder.
G.Section 411234.01 applies to contributions
to an officeholder account for legislators.
H.A person who violates this section is subject to
a civil penalty of three times any amount improperly received, spent or
reported.
I.Section 16924 applies for the
implementation and enforcement of this section.
J.Any monies held by an officeholder pursuant to
the officeholder expense account rules established by the citizens clean
elections commission are subject to this section, and the citizens clean
elections commission has no further authority with respect to those monies.
K.For the purposes of this section,
"officeholder" means a person who holds an elected statewide public
office or a legislative office in this state, whether by election or
appointment. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, sections 16-947 and 16-961, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, are effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths
of the members of each house of the legislature.

