



PREFILED DEC 30 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: electronic notice; hearings; ordinances







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2020









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

Amending sections
11251.05, 11805, 11808, 11813, 11814, 11821,
11864 and 49112, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to county
ordinances.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-251.05, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-251.05.Ordinances
A.The board of supervisors may:
1.In the conduct of county business, adopt, amend
and repeal all ordinances necessary or proper to carry out the duties,
responsibilities and functions of the county which that
are not otherwise specifically limited by section 11-251 or any
other law or in conflict with any rule or law of this state. 
2.Prescribe punishment by fine or imprisonment, or
both, for the violation of an ordinance adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
subsection. A fine or imprisonment shall not exceed the maximum limitations for
a class 1 misdemeanor.
B.Ordinance authority under subsection A of this section
shall be in addition to and preemptive of ordinance, rule making rulemaking or regulatory authority of any
other county board or county commission.A county may not impose
taxes except as otherwise provided by law and as specified in section 11251.
C.Prior to
Before adoption,
amendment or repeal of an ordinance under this section, the board of
supervisors shall hold a public hearing thereon at least fifteen days' notice
of which shall be given by one
posting on the county's website or publication
once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county seat.After adopted or amended,
the ordinance shall be posted on the
county's website or published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county seat. If the ordinance is posted on the county's website, the county shall
publish notice of the ordinance in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county seat that provides the location in which the ordinance may be viewed in
full. 
D.An ordinance adopted under this section may apply
to the unincorporated and incorporated areas in the county if the ordinance is
not in conflict with an existing city or town ordinance or state law or
otherwise regulated by the state.If the ordinance is intended to
apply to any incorporated area of the county, prior to before the ordinance becoming
becomes effective within
the boundaries of a city or town, the city or town council shall consider the
ordinance and, if the council finds that the subject matter of the ordinance is
not either a matter of local concern or governed by an existing city or town
ordinance, the council shall approve by resolution the application or
enforcement of such the ordinance within the
boundaries of the city or town.Upon On
thirty days' notice to the county, a city or town council may
rescind such the approval by resolution if
the subject matter of the ordinance is governed or to be governed by a city or
town ordinance.An ordinance may apply to the unincorporated areas
of the county, to part or parts of such areas or to a combination of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county, as the board deems
appropriate and subject to the approval of a city or town as specified in this
subsection.
E.Nothing
contained in This section shall
be construed to does not prohibit
a county from exercising such powers and authority as are granted under other
provisions of state law. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-805, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-805.Comprehensive plan adoption; notice; hearing; amendment;
expiration; readoption
A.The board shall adopt a comprehensive plan and
subsequently amend or extend the adopted plan as provided by this article. On
adoption or readoption, the plan, or any part of the plan, shall be the
official guide for the development of the area of jurisdiction. Any change,
amendment, extension or addition of the comprehensive plan may be made only
pursuant to this chapter.
B.The board of supervisors shall:
1.Adopt written procedures to provide effective,
early and continuous public participation in the development and major
amendment of the comprehensive plan from all geographic, ethnic and economic
areas of the county. The procedures shall provide for:
(a)The broad dissemination of proposals and
alternatives.
(b)The opportunity for written comments.
(c)Public hearings after effective notice.
(d)Open discussions, communications programs and
information services.
(e)Consideration of public comments.
2.Consult with, advise and provide an opportunity
for official comment by public officials and agencies, municipalities, school
districts, associations of governments, public land management agencies, the
military airport if the county's area of jurisdiction includes territory in the
vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in
section 288461, other appropriate government jurisdictions, public
utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other organizations,
property owners and citizens generally to secure the maximum coordination of
plans and to indicate properly located sites for all public purposes on the
plan.
C.The commission shall confer with the state land
department and the governing bodies and planning commissions of cities and
towns in the county for the purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious development of the county, of zoning districts, of
urban growth and of public improvements and utilities that do not begin and
terminate within the boundaries of any single city or town and that will,
pursuant to the present and future needs of the county, best promote with
efficiency and economy the health, safety, morals, order, convenience or
general welfare of the public.
D.The commission shall coordinate the production of
the comprehensive plan with the creation of the conceptual state land use plans
under title 37, chapter 2, article 5.1. The commission shall cooperate with
the state land department regarding integrating the conceptual state land use
plans into the comprehensive plan.
E.The commission may formulate and draft the
comprehensive plan as a whole, or as separate parts of the plan corresponding
with functional divisions of the subject matter, and, subject to the
limitations of this chapter, may amend, extend or add to the comprehensive
plan.
F.At least sixty days before the comprehensive plan
or an element or major amendment of a comprehensive plan is noticed pursuant to
subsection G of this section, the commission shall transmit the proposal to the
board of supervisors and submit a copy for review and further comment to:
1.Each municipality in the county.
2.Each other county that is contiguous to the
county.
3.The regional planning agency in the county.
4.The Arizona commerce authority or any other state
agency that is subsequently designated as the general planning agency for this
state.
5.The department of water resources for review and
comment on the water resources element, if a water resources element is
required.
6.If the comprehensive plan or an element or
amendment of the comprehensive plan is applicable to territory in the vicinity
of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in section
28-8461, the military airport.
7.If the comprehensive plan or an element or major
amendment of the comprehensive plan is applicable to property in the high noise
or accident potential zone of a military airport or ancillary military facility
as defined in section 288461, the attorney general. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "major amendment" means a substantial alteration of
the county's land use mixture or balance as established in the county's
existing comprehensive plan land use element for that area of the county.
8.Any person or entity that requests in writing to
receive a review copy of the proposal.
G.After considering any recommendations from the
review required under subsection F of this section, the commission shall hold
at least one public hearing. Notice of the time and place of a hearing and
availability of studies and summaries related to the hearing shall be given at
least fifteen and not more than thirty calendar days before the hearing by:
1.Posting
on the county's website or publication at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county seat.
2.Posting
on the county's website or publication at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area to be affected, or adjacent to the
area to be affected, if the area affected is other than the county seat.
3.Such
Any other manner in
addition to posting or publication
as the county may deem necessary or desirable.
H.After the commission recommends the comprehensive
plan or any section of the plan, the plan shall be submitted to the board of
supervisors for its
consideration and official action.
I.Before the adoption, amendment or extension of
the plan, the board shall hold at least one public hearing on the
plan.After the board considers the commission's recommendation and
any recommendations from the review required under subsection F of this
section, the board shall hold at least one public hearing at which residents of
the county shall be heard concerning the matters contained in the plan. At least
fifteen days' notice of the hearing shall be given by one posting
on the county's website or publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county seat. The board shall consider protests and objections to the plan
and may change or alter any portion of the comprehensive plan. However, before
any change is made, that portion of the plan proposed to be changed shall be
re-referred to the commission for its recommendation, which may be accepted or
rejected by the board.
J.The board of supervisors may adopt the county
comprehensive plan as a whole or by successive actions adopt separate parts of
the plan.The adoption or readoption of the comprehensive plan or
any amendment to the plan shall be by resolution of the board.The
adoption or readoption of, or a major amendment to, the county comprehensive
plan shall be approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the
members of the board. All major amendments proposed for adoption to the
comprehensive plan by the board shall be presented at a single public hearing
during the calendar year the proposal is made. The adoption or readoption of
the comprehensive plan, and any major amendment to the comprehensive plan,
shall not be enacted as an emergency measure and is subject to referendum as
provided by article IV, part 1, section 1, subsection (8), Constitution of
Arizona, and title 19, chapter 1, article 4. For the purposes of this section,
"major amendment" means a substantial alteration of the county's land
use mixture or balance as established in the county's existing comprehensive
plan land use element for that area of the county. The county's comprehensive
plan shall define the criteria to determine if a proposed amendment to the
comprehensive plan effects a substantial alteration of the county's land use
mixture or balance as established in the county's existing comprehensive plan
land use element for that area of the county.
K.If the county's area of jurisdiction includes
property in the high noise or accident potential zone of a military airport or
ancillary military facility as defined in section 288461, the board
shall send notice of the approval, adoption or readoption of the comprehensive
plan or major amendment to the comprehensive plan to the attorney general by
certified mail, return receipt requested, within three business days after the
approval, adoption or readoption.If the attorney general determines
the approval, adoption or readoption of the comprehensive plan or major
amendment to the comprehensive plan is not in compliance with section 288481,
subsection J, the attorney general shall notify the county by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the determination of noncompliance. The board
shall receive the notice from the attorney general within twenty-five days
after the notice from the board to the attorney general is mailed pursuant to
this subsection. The effective date of any approval, adoption or readoption
of, or major amendment to, the comprehensive plan shall be thirty days after
the board's receipt of the attorney general's determination of noncompliance.
Within thirty days after the receipt of a determination of noncompliance by the
attorney general as prescribed by this section, the board shall reconsider any
approval, adoption or readoption of, or major amendment to, the comprehensive
plan that impacts property in the high noise or accident potential zone of a
military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in section 288461.
If the board reaffirms a prior action subject to an attorney general's
determination of noncompliance pursuant to this section, the attorney general
may institute a civil action pursuant to section 288481, subsection
L.If the board timely sends notice pursuant to this subsection and
the attorney general fails to timely notify the board of a determination of
noncompliance, the comprehensive plan or major amendment to the comprehensive
plan is deemed to comply with section 288481, subsection
J.For the purposes of this subsection "major amendment"
has the same meaning prescribed in subsection J of this section.
L.If the motion to adopt or readopt the plan or an
amendment to the plan fails to pass, the board may reconsider the motion in any
manner allowed by the board's rules of procedure, but any subsequent motion for
the adoption or readoption of the plan or a major amendment to the plan must be
approved by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
board. If the board fails to adopt or readopt the plan, the current plan
remains in effect until a new plan is adopted. The board shall either
reconsider the proposed plan or consider a revised plan within one year and
shall continue to do so until one is adopted.All subsequent
considerations of a new or revised plan must comply with the procedures
prescribed by this article.
M.A county comprehensive plan, with any amendments,
is effective for up to ten years from
after the date the plan
was initially adopted or until the plan is readopted or a new plan is adopted
pursuant to this subsection and becomes effective.On or before the
tenth anniversary of the plan's most recent adoption, the board shall either
readopt the existing plan for an additional term of up to ten years or shall
adopt a new comprehensive plan as provided by this article.
N.A person, after having participated in the public
hearing pursuant to subsection I of this section, may file a petition for
special action in superior court to review the board of supervisor's decision
that does not comply with the mandatory requirement prescribed in section 11804,
subsection B, paragraph 1, subdivision (e) within thirty days after the board
has rendered its decision. The court may affirm, reverse or remand to the
board of supervisors, in whole or in part, the decision reviewed for further
action that is necessary to comply with the mandatory requirements prescribed
in section 11804, subsection B, paragraph 1, subdivision (e). END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 11-808, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-808.Infrastructure service area boundaries; notice; hearing;
adoption
A.The county planning and zoning commission may
prepare a plan and provide regulations determining the location of
infrastructure service area boundaries consistent with the growth area element
of the comprehensive plan beyond which the county may limit or prescribe
conditions on publicly financed extensions of water, sewer and street improvements.
The plan and regulations shall consider all elements of the comprehensive plan,
including the circulation and public facilities elements. For the purposes of
this subsection, publicly financed does not include special taxing district
financing other than municipal or county improvement district revenues or
bonds. The regulations shall also include components that:
1.Assign or delegate administrative functions,
powers and duties to county officers and employees.
2.Identify the procedure for determining the
initial infrastructure service area boundaries.
3.Identify the methodology and procedures for
adjusting the infrastructure service area boundaries.
B.Before recommending the plan and regulations, or
any part, amendment, extension or addition, to the board of supervisors, the
commission shall hold at least one public hearing on the service area
boundaries, after giving at least fifteen days' notice by posting on the county's website or publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county seat and in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area to be affected, if that area is other than the
county seat.
C.The board of supervisors shall adopt any such
plan and regulations and amendments by resolution. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 11-813, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-813.Zoning ordinance; adoption; amendments; notice; hearing
A.The commission shall formulate and draft the
zoning ordinance. Before recommending the zoning ordinance to the board of
supervisors for adoption, the commission shall hold at least one public
hearing, after giving at least fifteen days' notice of the hearing by one posting on the county's website or publication
once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county seat.
B.After the commission recommends the zoning
ordinance, the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to the board of supervisors
for its consideration and official action.After the board considers
the commission's recommendation, the board shall hold at least one public
hearing at which residents of the county shall be heard concerning the zoning
ordinance. At least fifteen days' notice of the hearing shall be given by one posting on the county's website or publication
once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county seat.The board shall consider
protests and objections to the zoning ordinance and may change or alter any
portion of the zoning ordinance.
C.A property owner or authorized agent of a
property owner desiring a zoning regulations amendment shall file an
application for the amendment.
D.The commission, on its own motion, may propose a
zoning regulations amendment and, after holding a public hearing as required by
this chapter, may transmit the proposal to the board, which shall proceed as
prescribed in this chapter for any other amendment.
E.On receipt of the application the board shall
submit the application to the commission for a report. Before reporting to the
board, the commission shall hold at least one public hearing after giving at
least fifteen days' notice of the hearing by one posting
on the county's website or publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county seat. The following specific notice provisions also apply:
1.In proceedings involving one or more of the
following proposed changes or related series of changes in the standards
governing land uses, notice shall be provided in the manner prescribed by
paragraph 2 of this subsection:
(a)A ten per
cent percent or
more increase or decrease in the number of square feet or units that may be
developed.
(b)A ten per
cent percent or
more increase or reduction in the allowable height of buildings.
(c)An increase or reduction in the allowable number
of stories of buildings.
(d)A ten per
cent percent or
more increase or decrease in setback or open space requirements.
(e)An increase or reduction in permitted uses.
2.In proceedings governed by paragraph 1 of this
subsection, the county shall provide notice to real property owners pursuant to
at least one of the following notification procedures:
(a)Notice shall be sent by first class mail to each
real property owner, as shown on the last assessment, whose real property is
directly affected by the changes.
(b)If the county issues utility bills or other mass
mailings that periodically include notices or other informational or
advertising materials, the county shall include notice of the changes with the
utility bills or other mailings.
(c)The county shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or
post on the county's website the changes before the first hearing
on the changes. If the changes are
posted in full on the county's website, the county shall publish notice of the
changes in a newspaper of general circulation in the county that provides the
location in which the changes may be viewed in full. If the changes are
published in full in a newspaper of general circulation, the
changes shall be published in a display advertisement covering not less than
oneeighth of a full page. 
3.If notice is provided pursuant to paragraph 2,
subdivision (b) or (c) of this subsection, the county shall also send notice by
first class mail or electronic mail
to persons who register their names and addresses
required contact information with
the county as being interested in receiving the notice. The county may charge
a fee not to exceed five dollars per year
for providing this service and may adopt procedures to implement this
paragraph.
4.Notwithstanding the notice requirements
prescribed in paragraph 2 of this subsection, the failure of any person or
entity to receive notice does not constitute grounds for any court to
invalidate the actions of a county for which the notice was given.
F.After the commission has held a public hearing,
the board shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment at least
fifteen days' notice of which shall be given by one posting
on the county's website or publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county seat. After holding the hearing, the board may adopt the amendment.
G.Notwithstanding title 19, chapter 1, article 4, a
decision by the governing body that changes the zoning standards of land that
is not owned by the county as prescribed in subsection E, paragraph 1 of this
section may not be enacted as an emergency measure and such a the
change shall not be effective for at least thirty days after
final approval of the change in classification by the board. Unless a resident
files a written objection with the board of supervisors, the change may be
enacted as an emergency measure that becomes effective immediately by a
four-fifths majority vote of the board for those counties with five or more
supervisors or a two-thirds majority vote of the board for those counties with
fewer than five supervisors. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 11-814, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-814.Rezoning; conditional zoning change; notice; hearing;
citizen review; definition
A.All rezonings adopted under this article shall be
consistent with and conform to the adopted comprehensive plan. In the case of
uncertainty in constructing or applying the conformity of any part of a
proposed rezoning to the adopted comprehensive plan, the rezoning shall be
construed in a manner that will further the implementation of, and not be
contrary to, the goals, policies and applicable elements of the comprehensive
plan. A rezoning conforms with the comprehensive plan if it proposes land
uses, densities or intensities within the range of identified uses, densities
and intensities of the comprehensive plan.
B.A property owner or authorized agent of a
property owner desiring a rezoning shall file an application for the rezoning.
C.The commission, on its own motion, may propose a
rezoning and, after holding a public hearing as required by this chapter, may
transmit the proposal to the board, which shall proceed as prescribed in this
chapter for any other rezoning.
D.On receipt of the application the board shall
submit the application to the commission for a report. Before reporting to the
board, the commission shall hold at least one public hearing after giving at
least fifteen days' notice of the hearing by one posting
on the county's website or publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county seat and by posting of the area included in the proposed rezoning.
If the matter to be considered applies to territory in a high noise or accident
potential zone as defined in section 288461, the notice shall include a
general statement that the matter applies to property located in the high noise
or accident potential zone. The posting shall be in no less than two places
with at least one notice for each quarter mile of frontage along perimeter
public rights-of-way so that the notices are visible from the nearest public
rightofway. The commission shall also send notice by first class
mail to each real property owner as shown on the last assessment of the
property within three hundred feet of the proposed rezoning and each county and
municipality that is contiguous to the area of the proposed rezoning. In
proceedings involving rezoning of land that is located within territory in the
vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in
section 288461, the commission shall send copies of the notice of public
hearing by first class mail to the military airport. The notice sent by mail
shall include, at a minimum, the date, time and place of the hearing on the
proposed rezoning including a general explanation of the matter to be
considered and a general description of the area of the proposed rezoning. For
those counties with five or more supervisors, the notice must include a general
description of how the real property owners within the zoning area may file
approvals or protests of the proposed rezoning, and notification that if twenty
per cent percent of the property owners by area and
number within the zoning area file protests, an affirmative vote of threefourths
of all members of the board will be required to approve the rezoning. In
proceedings that are initiated by the commission involving rezoning, notice by
first class mail shall be sent to each real property owner, as shown on the
last assessment of the property, of the area to be rezoned and all property
owners, as shown on the last assessment of the property, within three hundred
feet of the property to be rezoned. 
E.If the commission or hearing officer has held a
public hearing, the board may adopt the recommendations of the commission or
hearing officer through use of a consent calendar without holding a second public
hearing if there is no objection, request for public hearing or other protest.
If there is an objection, a request for public hearing or a protest, the board
shall hold a public hearing at least fifteen days' notice of which shall be
given by one posting on the county's website or
publication once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county seat and by posting the area
included in the proposed rezoning.In counties with territory in the
vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in
section 288461, the board shall hold a public hearing if, after notice
is mailed to the military airport pursuant to subsection D of this section and
before the public hearing, the military airport provides comments or analysis
concerning the compatibility of the proposed rezoning with the high noise or
accident potential generated by military airport or ancillary military facility
operations that may have an adverse impact on public health and safety, and the
board shall consider and analyze the comments or analysis before making a final
determination. After holding the hearing the board may adopt the rezoning by a
majority vote of the board for those counties with fewer than five supervisors,
or for those counties with five or more supervisors if a protest has not been
filed. If twenty per cent percent of the owners of
property by area and number within the zoning area file a protest to the
proposed rezoning, the change shall not be made except by a threefourths
vote of all members of the board for those counties with five or more
supervisors. If any members of the board are unable to vote on the question
because of a conflict of interest, the required number of votes for the passage
of the question is three-fourths of the remaining membership of the board for
those counties with five or more supervisors, except that the required number
of votes in no event shall be less than a majority of the full membership of
the board. In calculating the owners by area, only that portion of a lot or
parcel of record situated within three hundred feet of the property to be
rezoned shall be included. In calculating the owners by number or area, county
property and public rights-of-way shall not be included.
F.The board of supervisors shall adopt by ordinance
a citizen review process that applies to all rezoning and specific zoning plan
applications that require a public hearing. The citizen review process shall
include at least the following requirements:
1.Adjacent landowners and other potentially
affected citizens will be notified of the application.
2.The county will inform adjacent landowners and
other potentially affected citizens of the substance of the proposed rezoning.
3.Adjacent landowners and other potentially
affected citizens will be provided an opportunity to express any issues or
concerns that they may have with the proposed rezoning before the public
hearing.
G.The rezoning or subdivision plat of any
unincorporated area completely surrounded by a city or town shall use as a guideline
the adopted general plan and standards as prescribed in the subdivision and
zoning ordinances of the city or town after April 10, 1986.
H.The board or commission, before taking any action
on a rezoning or subdivision plat in an area as prescribed in subsection G of
this section, may require the affected city or town to supply information to
allow the county to meet the guideline. If an affected city or town objects to
any such proposed action the board or commission shall prescribe in the minutes
of the meeting specific reasons why in its opinion the guideline is actually
being followed or why it is not practicable to follow the guideline of the
general plan.
I.The board may approve a change of zone
conditioned on a schedule for development of the specific use or uses for which
rezoning is requested. If at the expiration of this period the property has not
been improved for the use for which it was conditionally approved, the board
after notification by certified mail to the owner and applicant who requested
the rezoning shall schedule a public hearing to grant an extension, determine
compliance with the schedule for development or cause the property to revert to
its former zoning classification.
J.The legislature finds that a rezoning of land
that changes the zoning classification of the land or that restricts the use or
reduces the value of the land is a matter of statewide concern. Such a change
in zoning that is initiated by the governing body or zoning body shall not be
made without the express written consent of the property owner. In applying an
open space element or a growth element of a comprehensive plan, a parcel of
land shall not be rezoned for open space, recreation, conservation or
agriculture unless the owner of the land consents to the rezoning in writing.
For the purposes of this subsection, rezoning does not include the creation or
expansion of overlay zones solely for the purpose of implementing airport
safety and protection. Rezoning also does not include the redesignation of
areas of the county to which the residential provisions of the county building
codes apply or do not apply. The county shall not adopt any change in a zoning
classification to circumvent the purpose of this subsection.
K.Notwithstanding title 19, chapter 1, article 4, a
decision by the governing body involving rezoning of land that is not owned by
the county and that changes the zoning classification of the land may not be
enacted as an emergency measure and such
a the change
shall not be effective for at least thirty days after final approval of the
change in classification by the board. Unless a resident files a written
objection with the board of supervisors, the rezoning may be enacted as an
emergency measure that becomes effective immediately by a four-fifths majority
vote of the board for those counties with five or more supervisors or a
two-thirds majority vote of the board for those counties with fewer than five
supervisors.
L.For the purposes of this section, "zoning
area" means the area within three hundred feet of the proposed amendment
or change. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 11-821, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-821.Subdivision regulations; subdivision reservation for
public facilities and services; conditions; procedures; time limitation
A.The county board of supervisors shall regulate
the subdivision of all lands within its
the county's corporate
limits, except subdivisions that are regulated by municipalities.
B.The commission shall recommend to the board and
the board shall adopt general regulations of uniform application governing
plats and subdivisions of land within it's the board's area of
jurisdiction.The regulations adopted shall secure and provide for
the proper arrangement of streets or other highways in relation to existing or
planned streets, highways or bicycle facilities or to the official map for
adequate and convenient open spaces for traffic, utilities, drainage, access of
firefighting apparatus, recreation, light and air.The board may
adopt general regulations to provide for the proper arrangement of hiking and
equestrian trails in relation to existing or planned streets or highways, and
if adopted, the hiking and equestrian trails shall conform to the official map
for adequate and convenient open spaces for traffic, utilities, drainage,
access of firefighting apparatus, recreation, light and air. The general
regulations may provide for modification by the commission in planned area
development or specific cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional
conditions may require such action. The regulations shall include provisions
as to the extent to which streets and other highways shall be graded and
improved and to which water, sewer or other utility mains, piping or other
facilities shall be installed or provided for on the plat as a condition
precedent to the approval of the final plat.
C.Boards of supervisors of counties shall prepare
specifications and make orders, inspections, examinations and certificates as
may be necessary to protect and complete the provisions and make them
effective.The regulations shall require the posting of performance
bonds, assurances or such other security as may be appropriate and necessary to
ensure the installation of required street, sewer, electric and water
utilities, drainage, flood control and improvements meeting established minimum
standards of design and construction.
D.Before adoption of regulations by the board or
any amendment as provided in this article, the commission shall hold a public
hearing. The commission shall certify a copy of the regulations to the county
board of supervisors, which shall hold a public hearing after notice of the
time and place has been given by one
posting on the county's website or
publication once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county fifteen days before the public
hearing.
E.A board of supervisors may require by ordinance
that land areas within a subdivision be reserved for parks, recreational
facilities, school sites and fire stations subject to the following conditions:
1.The requirement may only be made on preliminary
plats filed at least thirty days after the adoption of a comprehensive plan or
amendment of the plan affecting the land area to be reserved.
2.The required reservations are in accordance with
definite principles and standards adopted by the board or commission.
3.The land area reserved is of such a size and
shape as to permit the remainder of the land area of the subdivision within
which the reservation is located to develop in an orderly and efficient manner.
4.The land area reserved is in such multiples of
streets and parcels as to permit an efficient division of the reserved area if
it is not acquired within the prescribed period.
F.The public agency for whose benefit an area has
been reserved has one year after recording the final subdivision plat to enter
into an agreement to acquire the reserved land area. The purchase price is the
fair market value of the land at the time of the filing of the preliminary
subdivision plat plus the taxes against the reserved area from the date of the
reservation and any other costs incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of
the reserved area, including interest cost incurred on any loan covering the
reserved area.
G.If the public agency for whose benefit an area
has been reserved does not exercise the reservation agreement within the one
year period or an extended period mutually agreed on by the public agency and
the subdivider, the reservation of the area terminates. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 11-864, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-864.Publication of ordinance adopting code
Any code authorized by this article may be enacted without
setting forth in full such provisions, but the adopting ordinance shall be
published in full in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or posted on the county's website.
If the adopting ordinance is posted in
full on the county's website, the county shall publish notice of the adopting
ordinance in a newspaper of general circulation in the county that provides the
location in which the adopting ordinance may be viewed in full. At
least three copies of the code shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the
board of supervisors and kept available for public use and
inspection.A code enacted by reference may be amended in the same
manner. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 49-112, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-112.County regulation; standards
A.When authorized by law, a county may adopt a
rule, ordinance or other regulation that is more stringent than or in addition
to a provision of this title or rule adopted by the director or any board or
commission authorized to adopt rules pursuant to this title if all of the
following conditions are met:
1.The rule, ordinance or other regulation is
necessary to address a peculiar local condition.
2.There is credible evidence that the rule,
ordinance or other regulation is either:
(a)Necessary to prevent a significant threat to
public health or the environment that results from a peculiar local condition
and is technically and economically feasible.
(b)Required under a federal statute or regulation,
or authorized pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement with the federal
government to enforce federal statutes or regulations if the county rule,
ordinance or other regulation is equivalent to federal statutes or regulations.
3.Any fee or tax adopted under the rule, ordinance
or other regulation will not exceed the reasonable costs of the county to issue
and administer that permit or plan approval program.
B.When authorized by law, a county may adopt rules,
ordinances or other regulations in lieu of a state program that are as
stringent as a provision of this title or rule adopted by the director or any
board or commission authorized to adopt rules pursuant to this title if the
county demonstrates that the cost of obtaining permits or other approvals from
the county will approximately equal or be less than the fee or cost of
obtaining similar permits or approvals under this title or any rule adopted
pursuant to this title.If the state has not adopted a fee or tax
for similar permits or approvals, the county may adopt a fee when authorized by
law in the rule, ordinance or other regulation that does not exceed the
reasonable costs of the county to issue and administer that permit or plan
approval program.
C.If a county has adopted rules, ordinances or
other regulations pursuant to subsection B of this section and at any time
cannot comply with subsection B of this section, the county shall give notice
of noncompliance to the director.The county shall file that notice
with the secretary of state for publication in the next issue of the Arizona
administrative register at no cost to the county.If the county does
not comply with subsection B of this section within one year after publication
of the notice in the Arizona administrative register, the director shall
provide written notice to and assert regulatory jurisdiction over those persons
and entities subject to the affected county rules, ordinances or other
regulations.
D.Except as provided in chapter 3, article 3 of
this title, before adopting or enforcing any rule, ordinance or other
regulation pursuant to subsection A or B of this section, the county shall
comply with all of the following:
1.Filewith the secretary of state a written
statement including a summary of the proposed rule, ordinance or other
regulation and a demonstration of the grounds and evidence of compliance with
subsection A or B of this section.The summary shall provide the
name of the person with the county to contact with questions or
comments.The secretary of state shall publish the written statement
in the next issue of the Arizona administrative register at no cost to the
county.The county shall publish, or post on the county's website, notice of
the availability of the complete summary and the demonstration in other
newspapers as may be required by this title and shall make the text of any
proposed environmental rule, ordinance or other regulation available to the
public at the same time it files the written summary of the environmental rule,
ordinance or other regulation with the secretary of state as provided in this
paragraph.
2.Provide at least thirty days' opportunity for
comment by the public after publication of the summary as prescribed by
paragraph 1 of this subsection.The county shall accept written
comments on the proposed rule, ordinance or regulation and the written
demonstration.
3.Respond in writing and make available to the
public for a reasonable cost the county's responses to the written comments
submitted by the public pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection.
4.Provide for a public hearing at the request of
the authorized county officer or if there is sufficient public
interest.The county shall publish the notice of any public hearing
at least twenty days prior to the hearing.The county shall
submitthe notice of the public hearing to the secretary of state for
publication in the next issue of the Arizona administrative register at no cost
to the county.The county shall publish in any newspaper as
prescribed by this title or county ordinance or post on the county's website notice of any
public hearing required pursuant to this paragraph.The county shall
select a time and location for the public hearing that affords a reasonable
opportunity for the public to participate.
E.A county is not required to comply with
subsection D, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this section before it adopts or
enforces a rule, ordinance or other regulation if the rule, ordinance or other
regulation only adopts by reference an existing state or federal rule or law
that provides greater regulatory flexibility for regulated parties and
otherwise satisfies the requirements prescribed in subsection B of this
section.
F.Until June 30, 1995, a person may file with the
clerk of the board of supervisors for that county a petition challenging a
county rule, ordinance or other regulation adopted before July 15, 1994 for
compliance with the criteria set forth in subsection A or B of this
section.The petition shall contain the grounds for challenging the
specific county rule, ordinance or other regulation.Within one year
after the petition is filed, the board of supervisors shall review the
challenged rule, ordinance or other regulation and make a written demonstration
of compliance with the criteria set forth in subsection A or B of this section
and challenged in the petition.Any rules, ordinances or other
regulations that have been challenged and for which the board of supervisors
has not made the written demonstration within one year of the filing of the
petition required by this section become unenforceable as of that
date.If a county has already made a written demonstration under
section 49479, subsection C, for a rule, ordinance or regulation, the
person filing the petition shall state the specific grounds in the petition why
that demonstration does not meet the requirements of this section.
G.A rule, ordinance or other regulation adopted
pursuant to subsection A of this section may not be invalidated subsequent to
its adoption on the grounds that the economic feasibility analysis is
insufficient or inaccurate if a county makes a good faith effort to comply with
the economic feasibility requirement of subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision
(a), of this section and has explained in the written statement, made public
pursuant to subsection D of this section, the methodology used to satisfy the
economic feasibility requirement.
H.This section shall not apply to any rule,
ordinance or other regulation adopted by a county pursuant to:
1.Title 36 for which the state has similar
statutory or rule making authority in this title.
2.Section 49391.
3.Chapter 3, article 8 of this title.
4.Chapter 4, article 3 of this title and section 49765.
5.Nonsubstantive rules relating to the application
process which that have a de minimis economic
effect on regulated parties. END_STATUTE

