



PREFILED JAN 04 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: utilities TPT; sales of propane







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2025









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

amending sections
42-5063, 42-5159 and 42-6012, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to state and
local transaction privilege and use tax.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5063, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5063.Utilities classification; definitions
A.The utilities classification is comprised of the
business of:
1.Producing and furnishing or furnishing to
consumers natural or artificial gas and water.
2.Providing to retail electric customers ancillary
services, electric distribution services, electric generation services,
electric transmission services and other services related to providing
electricity.
B.The utilities classification does not include:
1.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services related to providing electricity, gas or water to a
person who resells the services.
2.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
3.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
4.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services that are related to providing electricity to a
retail electric customer who is located outside this state for use outside this
state if the electricity is delivered to a point of sale outside this state.
5.Sales or other transfers of renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power utility to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
6.The leasing or renting of space to make
attachments to utility poles as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in business under
this section.
(b)To a person that is engaged in business under
this section or section 425064 or that is a cable operator.
C.The tax base for the utilities classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business, but the
following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Revenues received by a municipally owned utility
in the form of fees charged to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Revenues received by any person or persons owning
a utility system in the form of reimbursement or contribution compensation for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
3.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales to:
(a)Qualifying hospitals as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
4.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income that is derived from sales to a qualified environmental technology
manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 of a
utility product and that is used directly in environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing.This paragraph shall apply
for twenty full consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first
paper manufacturing machine is placed in service.In the case of a
qualified environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does
not manufacture paper, the time period shall begin with the date the first
manufacturing, processing or production equipment is placed in service.
5.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income attributable to transfers of electricity by any retail electric customer
owning a solar photovoltaic energy generating system to an electric
distribution system, if the electricity transferred is generated by the
customer's system.
6.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity,
or natural gas or propane to a business that
is principally engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations and that uses at
least fiftyone percent of
the electricity, or natural gas or propane in the manufacturing or smelting
operations.This paragraph does not apply to gas transportation
services.For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Gas transportation services" means
the services of transporting natural gas to a natural gas customer or to a
natural gas distribution facility if the natural gas was purchased from a
supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing" means the performance
as a business of an integrated series of operations that places tangible
personal property in a form, composition or character different from that in
which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product with a
distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not include
processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity or
operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally engaged" means at least
fifty-one percent of the business is a manufacturing or smelting operation.
(d)"Smelting" means to melt or fuse a
metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying chemical change, usually to
separate the metal.
7.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity or natural gas to a business that operates an
international operations center in this state and that is certified by the
Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Ancillary services" means those services
so designated in federal energy regulatory commission order 888 adopted in 1996
that include the services necessary to support the transmission of electricity
from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of the
transmission system according to good utility practice.
2."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 9505.
3."Electric distribution service" means
distributing electricity to retail electric customers through the use of
electric distribution facilities.
4."Electric generation service" means
providing electricity for sale to retail electric customers but excluding
electric distribution or transmission services.
5."Electric transmission service" means
transmitting electricity to retail electric customers or to electric
distribution facilities so classified by the federal energy regulatory
commission or, to the extent permitted by law, so classified by the Arizona
corporation commission.
6."Other services" includes metering,
meter reading services, billing and collecting services.
7."Retail electric customer" means a
person who purchases electricity for that person's own use, including use in
that person's trade or business and not for resale, redistribution or
retransmission.
8."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Section 42-5159, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5159.Exemptions
A.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the storage, use or consumption in this state of
the following described tangible personal property:
1.Tangible personal
property sold in this state, the gross receipts from the sale of which are
included in the measure of the tax imposed by articles 1 and 2 of this chapter.
2.Tangible personal
property, the sale or use
of which has already been subjected to an excise tax at a rate equal to or
exceeding the tax imposed by this article under the laws of another state of
the United States. If the excise tax imposed by the other state is at a rate
less than the tax imposed by this article, the tax imposed by this article is
reduced by the amount of the tax already imposed by the other state.
3.Tangible personal
property, the storage, use or consumption of which the constitution or laws of
the United States prohibit this state from taxing or to the extent that the
rate or imposition of tax is unconstitutional under the laws of the United
States.
4.Tangible personal
property that directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component part
of any manufactured, fabricated or processed article, substance or commodity
for sale in the regular course of business.
5.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, use fuel that is sold
to or used by a person holding a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued
under section 285739, aviation fuel, the sales, distribution or use of
which in this state is subject to the tax imposed under section 288344,
and jet fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under article 8 of this chapter.
6.Tangible personal
property brought into this state by an individual who was a nonresident at the
time the property was purchased for storage, use or consumption by the
individual if the first actual use or consumption of the property was outside
this state, unless the property is used in conducting a business in this state.
7.Purchases of implants
used as growth promotants and injectable medicines, not already exempt under
paragraph 16 of this subsection, for livestock and poultry owned by, or in
possession of, persons who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or
livestock or poultry products, or who are engaged in feeding livestock or poultry
commercially. For the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry" includes
ratites.
8.Livestock, poultry,
supplies, feed, salts, vitamins and other additives for use or consumption in
the businesses of farming, ranching and feeding livestock or poultry, not
including fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides.For the purposes
of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
9.Seeds, seedlings,
roots, bulbs, cuttings and other propagative material for use in commercially
producing agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops in
this state.
10.Tangible personal
property not exceeding two hundred dollars in any one month purchased by an
individual at retail outside the continental limits of the United States for
the individual's own personal use and enjoyment.
11.Advertising
supplements that are intended for sale with newspapers published in this state
and that have already been subjected to an excise tax under the laws of another
state in the United States that equals or exceeds the tax imposed by this
article.
12.Materials that are
purchased by or for publicly funded libraries including school district
libraries, charter school libraries, community college libraries, state
university libraries or federal, state, county or municipal libraries for use
by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or
photographic materials, beginning August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or
digital media materials, beginning July 17, 1994.
13.Tangible personal
property purchased by:
(a)A hospital organized
and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(b)A hospital operated
by this state or a political subdivision of this state.
(c)A licensed nursing
care institution or a licensed residential care institution or a residential
care facility operated in conjunction with a licensed nursing care institution
or a licensed kidney dialysis center, which provides medical services, nursing
services or health related services and is not used or held for profit.
(d)A qualifying health
care organization, as defined in section 425001, if the tangible
personal property is used by the organization solely to provide health and
medical related educational and charitable services.
(e)A qualifying health
care organization as defined in section 425001 if the organization is
dedicated to providing educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family
medical education training for blind and visually impaired children and
children with multiple disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(f)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
United States internal revenue code and that engages in and uses such property
exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical disabilities if the
programs are exclusively for training, job placement, rehabilitation or
testing.
(g)A person that is
subject to tax under this chapter by reason of being engaged in business
classified under section 425075, or a subcontractor working under the
control of a person that is engaged in business classified under section 425075,
if the tangible personal property is any of the following:
(i)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into a structure, project, development or improvement
in fulfillment of a contract.
(ii)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into any project described in section 425075,
subsection O.
(iii)Used in
environmental response or remediation activities under section 425075,
subsection B, paragraph 6.
(h)A person that is not
subject to tax under section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of
a certificate described in section 425009, subsection L, if the property
purchased is incorporated or fabricated by the person into the real property,
structure, project, development or improvement described in the certificate.
(i)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code if the property is purchased from the parent or an
affiliate organization that is located outside this state.
(j)A qualifying
community health center as defined in section 425001.
(k)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent
on a continuing basis at no cost.
(l)A person engaged in
business under the transient lodging classification if the property is a
personal hygiene item or articles used by human beings for food, drink or
condiment, except alcoholic beverages, which are furnished without additional
charge to and intended to be consumed by the transient during the transient's
occupancy.
(m)For taxable periods
beginning from and after June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization
that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and
that provides residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo
years of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the
tangible personal property is used by the organization solely to provide
residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years
of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(n)A qualifying health
sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
(o)A person
representing or working on behalf of any person described in subdivision (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (j), (k), (m) or (n) of this paragraph, if the
tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project
described in section 425075, subsection O.
14.Commodities, as
defined by title 7 United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale
in a warehouse in this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a
contract for future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market
regulated by the United States commodity futures trading commission.
15.Tangible personal
property sold by:
(a)Any nonprofit
organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes and
recognized by the United States internal revenue service under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
(b)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or
501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is associated with a
major league baseball team or a national touring professional golfing
association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(c)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4),
501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if the
organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and ranch
animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of
any private shareholder or individual.
16.Drugs and medical
oxygen, including delivery hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the
prescription of a member of the medical, dental or veterinarian profession who
is licensed by law to administer such substances.
17.Prosthetic
appliances, as defined in section 23501, prescribed or recommended by a
person who is licensed, registered or otherwise professionally credentialed as
a physician, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath, homeopath, nurse or
optometrist.
18.Prescription
eyeglasses and contact lenses.
19.Insulin, insulin
syringes and glucose test strips.
20.Hearing aids as
defined in section 361901.
21.Durable medical equipment
that has a centers for medicare and medicaid services common procedure code, is
designated reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a person who is licensed
under title 32, chapter 7, 13, 17 or 29, can withstand repeated use, is
primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is generally not
useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is appropriate for
use in the home.
22.Food, as provided in
and subject to the conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
23.Items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
24.Food and drink
provided without monetary charge by a taxpayer that is subject to section 425074
to its employees for their own consumption on the premises during the
employees' hours of employment.
25.Tangible personal
property that is used or consumed in a business subject to section 425074
for human food, drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
26.Food, drink or
condiment and accessory tangible personal property that are acquired for use by
or provided to a school district or charter school if they are to be either
served or prepared and served to persons for consumption on the premises of a
public school in the school district or on the premises of the charter school
during school hours.
27.Lottery tickets or
shares purchased pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
28.Textbooks, sold by a
bookstore, that are required by any state university or community college.
29.Magazines, other
periodicals or other publications produced by this state to encourage tourist
travel.
30.Paper machine
clothing, such as forming fabrics and dryer felts, purchased by a paper
manufacturer and directly used or consumed in paper manufacturing.
31.Coal, petroleum,
coke, natural gas, virgin fuel oil and electricity purchased by a qualified
environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in
section 411514.02 and directly used or consumed in the generation or
provision of onsite power or energy solely for environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing or environmental
protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full consecutive
calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper manufacturing machine is
placed in service. In the case of an environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor who does not manufacture paper, the time period shall
begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing or production equipment
is placed in service.
32.Motor vehicles that
are removed from inventory by a motor vehicle dealer as defined in section 284301
and that are provided to:
(a)Charitable or
educational institutions that are exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code.
(b)Public educational
institutions.
(c)State universities
or affiliated organizations of a state university if no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
33.Natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
34.Machinery,
equipment, technology or related supplies that are only useful to assist a
person with a physical disability as defined in section 46191 or a
person who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 or
has a head injury as defined in section 413201 to be more independent
and functional.
35.Liquid, solid or
gaseous chemicals used in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining,
refining, metallurgical operations, research and development and, beginning on
January 1, 1999, printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as
part of an integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the
materials from which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or
permitting a chemical or physical change to occur in the materials as part of
the production process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are
used or consumed in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but
does not affect any exemption for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a
commercial printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing,
copying and bookbinding.
36.Food, drink and
condiment purchased for consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or
other institution under the jurisdiction of the state department of
corrections, the department of public safety, the department of juvenile
corrections or a county sheriff.
37.A motor vehicle and
any repair and replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part
of such motor vehicle sold to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee
prescribed in title 28, chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the
business of leasing or renting such property.
38.Tangible personal
property that is or directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component
part of cards used as prescription plan identification cards.
39.Overhead materials
or other tangible personal property that is used in performing a contract
between the United States government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or
repairer, including property used in performing a subcontract with a government
contractor who is a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which
title passes to the government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Overhead
materials" means tangible personal property, the gross proceeds of sales
or gross income derived from which would otherwise be included in the retail
classification, that is used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the
cost of which is charged to an overhead expense account and allocated to
various contracts based on generally accepted accounting principles and
consistent with government contract accounting standards.
(b)"Subcontract"
means an agreement between a contractor and any person who is not an employee
of the contractor for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in
part, are necessary to the performance of one or more government contracts, or
under which any portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more
government contracts is performed, undertaken or assumed, and that includes
provisions causing title to overhead materials or other tangible personal
property used in the performance of the subcontract to pass to the government
or that includes provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a
government contract into the subcontract.
40.Through December 31,
1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a personal property
liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061.From
and after December 31, 1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a
personal property liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061,
if the gross proceeds of the sales were included in the measure of the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter or if the personal property liquidation
was a casual activity or transaction.
41.Wireless
telecommunications equipment that is held for sale or transfer to a customer as
an inducement to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications
services that are taxable under section 425064.
42.Alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215, purchased by a used oil fuel burner who has
received a permit to burn used oil or used oil fuel under section 49426
or 49480.
43.Tangible personal
property purchased by a commercial airline and consisting of food, beverages
and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and beverages, if
those items are to be provided without additional charge to passengers for
consumption in flight.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
44.Alternative fuel
vehicles if the vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted
to operate on alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a
conventional diesel fuel motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an
alternative fuel, as defined in section 1215.
45.Gas diverted from a
pipeline, by a person engaged in the business of:
(a)Operating a natural
or artificial gas pipeline, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment that pressurizes the pipeline.
(b)Converting natural
gas into liquefied natural gas, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment used in the conversion process.
46.Tangible personal
property that is excluded, exempt or deductible from transaction privilege tax
pursuant to section 425063.
47.Tangible personal
property purchased to be incorporated or installed as part of environmental
response or remediation activities under section 425075, subsection B,
paragraph 6.
48.Tangible personal
property sold by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under
section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization produces,
organizes or promotes cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part
of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
49.Prepared food, drink
or condiment donated by a restaurant as classified in section 425074,
subsection A to a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals
to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
50.Application services
that are designed to assess or test student learning or to promote curriculum
design or enhancement purchased by or for any school district, charter school,
community college or state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application
services" means software applications provided remotely using hypertext
transfer protocol or another network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum
design or enhancement" means planning, implementing or reporting on
courses of study, lessons, assignments or other learning activities.
51.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel to a qualified business under section 411516 for off-road
use in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products
removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
52.Repair parts
installed in equipment used directly by a qualified business under section 411516
in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
53.Renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation commission
or governing body of a public power entity to track kilowatt hours of
electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
54.Computer data center
equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of
the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use in a
computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority under
section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase,
the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer
its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that
establishes its qualification for the deduction. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "computer data center", "computer data center
equipment", "qualification period" and "qualified
colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
55.Coal acquired from
an owner or operator of a power plant by a person who is responsible for
refining coal if both of the following apply:
(a)The transfer of
title or possession of the coal is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or
possession of the coal is transferred back to the owner or operator of the
power plant after completion of the coal refining process. For the purposes of
this subdivision, "coal refining process" means the application of a
coal additive system that aids the reduction of power plant emissions during
the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue gas.
56.Tangible personal
property incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075,
subsection O, that is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian
reservation for which the owner, as defined in section 425075, of the
project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated
Indian" means an individual native American Indian who is duly registered
on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian
reservation was established.
(b)"Indian
reservation" means all lands that are within the limits of areas set aside
by the United States for the exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by
treaty, law or executive order and that are recognized as Indian reservations
by the United States department of the interior.
(c)"Indian
tribe" means any organized nation, tribe, band or community that is
recognized as an Indian tribe by the United States department of the interior
and includes any entity formed under the laws of the Indian tribe.
B.In addition to the
exemptions allowed by subsection A of this section, the following categories of
tangible personal property are also exempt:
1.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job
printing, refining or metallurgical operations. The terms
"manufacturing", "processing", "fabricating",
"job printing", "refining" and "metallurgical" as
used in this paragraph refer to and include those operations commonly
understood within their ordinary meaning. "Metallurgical operations"
includes leaching, milling, precipitating, smelting and refining.
2.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in the process of extracting ores or minerals from the
earth for commercial purposes, including equipment required to prepare the
materials for extraction and handling, loading or transporting such extracted
material to the surface."Mining" includes underground,
surface and open pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal
property sold to persons engaged in business classified under the
telecommunications classification under section 425064, including a
person representing or working on behalf of such a person in a manner described
in section 425075, subsection O, and consisting of central office
switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment, microwave
radio equipment and carrier equipment including optical fiber, coaxial cable
and other transmission media that are components of carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment
or transmission lines used directly in producing or transmitting electrical
power, but not including distribution. Transformers and control equipment used
at transmission substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or
transmitting electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses,
asses, sheep, ratites, swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or
production stock, including sales of breedings or ownership shares in such
animals used for breeding or production.
6.Pipes or valves four
inches in diameter or larger used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial
gas, water or coal slurry, including compressor units, regulators, machinery
and equipment, fittings, seals and any other part that is used in operating the
pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft,
navigational and communication instruments and other accessories and related
equipment sold to:
(a)A person holding a
federal certificate of public convenience and necessity, a supplemental air
carrier certificate under federal aviation regulations (14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121) or a foreign air carrier permit for air transportation
for use as or in conjunction with or becoming a part of aircraft to be used to
transport persons, property or United States mail in intrastate, interstate or
foreign commerce.
(b)Any foreign
government, or sold to persons who are not residents of this state and who will
not use such property in this state other than in removing such property from
this state.
8.Machinery, tools,
equipment and related supplies used or consumed directly in repairing,
remodeling or maintaining aircraft, aircraft engines or aircraft component
parts by or on behalf of a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or
property.
9.Rolling stock, rails,
ties and signal control equipment used directly to transport persons or
property.
10.Machinery or
equipment used directly to drill for oil or gas or used directly in the process
of extracting oil or gas from the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban
mass transit vehicles that are used directly to transport persons or property
for hire or pursuant to a governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass
transportation program and that are sold to bus companies holding a federal
certificate of convenience and necessity or operated by any city, town or other
governmental entity or by any person contracting with such governmental entity
as part of a governmentally adopted and controlled program to provide urban
mass transportation.
12.Groundwater
measuring devices required under section 45604.
13.New machinery and
equipment consisting of tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered
implements, machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and
machinery and equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip
irrigation lines not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and
that are used for commercial production of agricultural, horticultural,
viticultural and floricultural crops and products in this state.For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"New machinery
and equipment" means machinery or equipment that has never been sold at
retail except pursuant to leases or rentals that do not total two years or
more.
(b)"Selfpowered
implements" includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or
equipment used in research and development. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "research and development" means basic and applied
research in the sciences and engineering, and designing, developing or testing
prototypes, processes or new products, including research and development of
computer software that is embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or new
product or that is required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt under
this section to function effectively. Research and development do not include
manufacturing quality control, routine consumer product testing, market
research, sales promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or
psychology, computer software research that is not included in the definition
of research and development, or other nontechnological activities or technical
services.
15.Tangible personal
property that is used by either of the following to receive, store, convert,
produce, generate, decode, encode, control or transmit telecommunications
information:
(a)Any direct broadcast
satellite television or data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47
Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite
television or data transmission facility, if both of the following conditions
are met:
(i)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during
the test period were transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct
broadcast satellite television or data transmission services that operate
pursuant to 47 Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of
those direct broadcast television or data transmission services during the test
period were transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of this paragraph,
"test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive day period
beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal property is
purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service first transmits information to its customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real
property.Clean room:
(a)Includes the
integrated systems, fixtures, piping, movable partitions, lighting and all
property that is necessary or adapted to reduce contamination or to control
airflow, temperature, humidity, chemical purity or other environmental
conditions or manufacturing tolerances, as well as the production machinery and
equipment operating in conjunction with the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the
building or other permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses
the clean room environment.
17.Machinery and
equipment that are used directly in the feeding of poultry, the environmental
control of housing for poultry, the movement of eggs within a production and
packaging facility or the sorting or cooling of eggs.This exemption
does not apply to vehicles used for transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or
equipment, including related structural components, that is employed in
connection with manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining,
mining, natural gas pipelines, metallurgical operations, telecommunications,
producing or transmitting electricity or research and development and that is
used directly to meet or exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal
energy regulatory commission, the United States environmental protection
agency, the United States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department
of environmental quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and
equipment that are used in the commercial production of livestock, livestock
products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or
products in this state and that are used directly and primarily to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or
equipment that enables a television station to originate and broadcast or to
receive and broadcast digital television signals and that was purchased to
facilitate compliance with the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104;
110 Stat. 56; 47 United States Code section 336) and the federal communications
commission order issued April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part 73).
This paragraph does not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or
replacement parts purchased for the machinery or equipment described in this
paragraph.
(b)Machinery or
equipment purchased to replace machinery or equipment for which an exemption was
previously claimed and taken under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or
equipment purchased after the television station has ceased analog
broadcasting, or purchased after November 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment
that is purchased from and after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a
qualified business under section 411516 for harvesting or processing
qualifying forest products removed from qualifying projects as defined in
section 411516. To qualify for this exemption, the qualified business
must obtain and present its certification from the Arizona commerce authority
at the time of purchase.
C.The exemptions
provided by subsection B of this section do not include:
1.Expendable
materials.For the purposes of this paragraph, expendable materials
do not include any of the categories of tangible personal property specified in
subsection B of this section regardless of the cost or useful life of that
property.
2.Janitorial equipment
and hand tools.
3.Office equipment, furniture
and supplies.
4.Tangible personal
property used in selling or distributing activities, other than the
telecommunications transmissions described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of
this section.
5.Motor vehicles
required to be licensed by this state, except buses or other urban mass transit
vehicles specifically exempted pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this
section, without regard to the use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings,
docks, depots and all other materials of whatever kind or character not
specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used
in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and
equipment or tangible personal property used by a contractor in the performance
of a contract.
D.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Revenues received
from sales of ancillary services, electric distribution services, electric
generation services, electric transmission services and other services related
to providing electricity to a retail electric customer who is located outside
this state for use outside this state if the electricity is delivered to a
point of sale outside this state.
2.Revenues received
from providing electricity, including ancillary services, electric distribution
services, electric generation services, electric transmission services and
other services related to providing electricity with respect to which the
transaction privilege tax imposed under section 425063 has been paid.
E.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the purchase of solar energy devices from a
retailer that is registered with the department as a solar energy retailer or a
solar energy contractor.
F.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Fees charged by a
municipally owned utility to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Reimbursement or
contribution compensation to any person or persons owning a utility system for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
G.The
tax levied by this article does not apply to the purchase price of electricity, or natural gas or propane by:
1.A
business that is principally engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations and
that uses at least fiftyone percent of the electricity, or
natural gas or propane in
the manufacturing or smelting operations.This paragraph does not
apply to gas transportation services.For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Gas
transportation services" means the services of transporting natural gas to
a natural gas customer or to a natural gas distribution facility if the natural
gas was purchased from a supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing"
means the performance as a business of an integrated series of operations that
places tangible personal property in a form, composition or character different
from that in which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product
with a distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not
include processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity
or operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally
engaged" means at least fifty-one percent of the business is a
manufacturing or smelting operation.
(d)"Smelting"
means to melt or fuse a metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying
chemical change, usually to separate the metal.
2.A business that
operates an international operations center in this state and that is certified
by the Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
H.For the purposes of
subsection B of this section:
1."Aircraft"
includes:
(a)An airplane flight
simulator that is approved by the federal aviation administration for use as a
phase II or higher flight simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal
property that is permanently affixed or attached as a component part of an
aircraft that is owned or operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of
persons or property.
2."Other accessories
and related equipment" includes aircraft accessories and equipment such as
ground service equipment that physically contact aircraft at some point during
the overall carrier operation.
I.For the purposes of
subsection D of this section, "ancillary services", "electric
distribution service", "electric generation service",
"electric transmission service" and "other services" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 425063. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-6012, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6012.Municipal transaction privilege tax; sales of electricity,
natural gas or propane
A city or town that levies a transaction privilege, sales,
gross receipts, use, franchise or other similar fee or tax, however
denominated, on the business of producing, providing or furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current, power,
or natural gas or propane shall either tax or
exempt in whole the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from sales by those
businesses to either of the following businesses:
1.Businesses that use at least fifty-one percent of
the electricity, electric lights, current, power, or
natural gas or propane in
a manufacturing or smelting operation located in that city or
town.This paragraph does not apply to gas transportation services.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Gas transportation services" means
the services of transporting natural gas to a natural gas customer or to a
natural gas distribution facility if the natural gas was purchased from a
supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing" means the performance
as a business of an integrated series of operations that places tangible
personal property in a form, composition or character different from that in
which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product with a
distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not include
processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity or
operating a restaurant.
(c)"Smelting" means to melt or fuse a
metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying chemical change, usually to
separate the metal.
2.Businesses that operate an international
operations center in this state and that are certified by the Arizona commerce
authority pursuant to section 411520. END_STATUTE

