



PREFILED JAN 04 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: corporate tax credits; annual report







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2027









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending section
41-1525, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 42, chapter 1, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 42-1131; amending section 42-2003,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to corporate tax credit information.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1525, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1525.Arizona quality jobs incentives; tax credits for new
employment; qualifications; definitions
A.The owner of a business that is located in this state before July 2017
is eligible for income tax credits under section 431074 or 431161
or an insurance premium tax credit under section 20224.03 for net
increases in full-time employees residing in this state and hired in qualified
employment positions in this state.
B.To qualify under this section, and subject to
preapproval by the authority, the business must meet either of the following
requirements for each location of the business before it claims a first year
tax credit for the location:
1.Invest at least five million dollars of capital
investment and create at least twenty-five new qualified employment positions
at a location within the exterior boundaries of a city or town that has a
population of fifty thousand persons or more and that is located in a county
that has a population of eight hundred thousand persons or more.
2.Invest at least one million dollars of capital
investment and create at least five qualified employment positions in any other
location.
C.The capital investment and the new qualified
employment positions requirements of subsection B of this section must be
accomplished within twelve months after the start of the required capital
investment. No credit may be claimed until both requirements are
met.A business that meets the requirements of subsection B of this
section for a location is eligible to claim first year credits for three years
beginning with the taxable year in which those requirements are completed.
Employees hired at the location before the beginning of the taxable year but
during the twelve-month period allowed in this subsection are considered to be
new employees for the taxable year in which all of those requirements are
completed. The employees that are considered to be new employees for the
taxable year under this subsection shall not be included in the average number
of full-time employees during the immediately preceding taxable year until the
taxable year in which all of the requirements of subsection B of this section
are completed.An employee working at a temporary work site worksite in this state while the designated
location is under construction is considered to be working at the designated
location if all of the following occur:
1.The employee is hired after the start of the
required investment at the designated location.
2.The employee is hired to work at the designated
location after it is completed.
3.The payroll for the employees destined for the
designated location is segregated from other employees.
4.The employee is moved to the designated location
within thirty days after its completion.
D.No more than ten thousand new jobs for all
employers qualify for first year credits each year.
E.To claim a tax credit, the business must:
1.Obtain preapproval from the authority at a time,
on a form and in a manner prescribed by the authority.Preapproval
shall cover all first year credits intended to be claimed for the designated
location and all second and third year credits associated with those first year
credits.
2.Certify to the department of revenue or the
department of insurance, as applicable, on or before the due date of the tax
return, including any extensions for the year for which the credit is claimed,
in a form prescribed by the department, including electronic media, information
that the department may require, including the ownership interests of coowners
of the business if the business is a partnership, limited liability company or
an S corporation, and the following information for each employee in the
designated location:
(a)The date of initial employment.
(b)The number of hours worked during the year.
(c)Whether the position was fulltime.
(d)The employee's annual compensation.
(e)The total cost of health insurance for the
employee and the cost paid by the employer.
(f)Other information required by the department.
3.Report and certify to the authority the following
information, and provide supporting documentation, on a form and in a manner
approved by the authority, and as specified in subsection F of this section,
for each year in which the taxpayer earned and claimed or used credits or is
carrying forward amounts from previously earned and claimed credits:
(a)The business name and mailing address and any
other contact information requested by the authority.
(b)The physical address of the business location or
locations and the number of employees qualified for the credit at each
location.
(c)The average hourly wage and the total amount of
compensation paid to employees qualified for the credit and for all employees.
(d)The total number of qualified employment
positions and the amount of income tax or premium tax credits qualified for in
the taxable year.
(e)The estimated amount of tax credits to be used
in the taxable year to offset tax liability.
(f)The estimated amount of tax credits to be
available for carryforward in the taxable year and the year in which the
credits expire.
(g)The number of jobs and the amount of credits
earned and claimed on the prior year's tax return.
(h)The amount of credits used to offset tax
liabilities on the prior year's tax return.
(i)The amount of credits available for carryforward
as reported on the prior year's tax return and the year the credits expire.
(j)Capital investment made during the taxable year
and the preceding taxable year.
(k)Other information necessary for the management
and reporting of the incentives under this section.
4.For any year in which the taxpayer is claiming
first year credits, report and certify the following additional information and
provide supporting documentation to the authority on a form and in a manner
approved by the authority, and as specified in subsection F of this section:
(a)That the net increase in the number of qualified
employment positions for which credit is sought is the least of:
(i)The total number of filled qualified employment
positions created at the designated location or locations during the taxable
year.
(ii)The difference between the average number of
fulltime employees in this state in the current taxable year and the
average number of fulltime employees in this state during the
immediately preceding taxable year.
(b)That all employees filling a qualified
employment position were employed for at least ninety days during the first
taxable year. Employees hired in the last ninety days of the taxable year are
excluded for that taxable year and are considered to be new employees in the
following taxable year.
(c)That none of the employees filling qualified
employment positions were employed by the taxpayer during the twelve months
before the current date of hire except for those relocating to this state.
(d)That all employees for whom second and third
year credits are claimed are in qualified employment positions for which first
year credits were allowed and claimed by the taxpayer on the original first and
second year tax returns.
(e)That all employees for whom credits are taken
performed their job duties primarily at the designated locations of the
business.
F.To qualify for first year credits, the report and
certification prescribed by subsection E, paragraphs 3 and 4 of this section
must be filed with the authority by the earlier of six months after the end of
the taxable year in which the qualified employment positions were created or by
the date the tax return is filed for the taxable year in which the qualified
employment positions were created.To qualify for second year
credits, the report and certification prescribed by subsection E, paragraph 3
of this section must be filed with the authority by the earlier of six months
after the end of the taxable year or the date the tax return is filed for the
taxable year in which the second year credits are allowable. To qualify for
third year credits, the report and certification prescribed by subsection E,
paragraph 3 of this section must be filed with the authority by the earlier of
six months after the end of the taxable year or the date the tax return is
filed for the taxable year in which the third year credits are allowable.
G.Any information submitted to the authority under
subsection E, paragraph 3, subdivisions (e) through (j) of this section is
exempt from title 39, chapter 1, article 2 and considered to be confidential
and is not subject to disclosure except:
1.To the extent that the person or organization
that provided the information consents to the disclosure.
2.To the department of revenue for use in tax administration
and for the annual report of corporate
tax credits required by section 42-1131.
H.Documents filed with the authority, the
department of insurance and the department of revenue under subsection E of
this section shall contain either a sworn statement or certification, signed by
an officer of the company under penalty of perjury, that the information
contained is true and correct according to the best belief and knowledge of the
person submitting the information after a reasonable investigation of the
facts.If the document contains information that is materially
false, the taxpayer is ineligible for the tax credits described under
subsection A of this section and is subject to recovery of the amount of tax
credits allowed in preceding taxable years based on the false information, plus
penalties and interest.
I.The authority may make site visits to a
taxpayer's facilities if it is necessary to further document or clarify
reported information.The taxpayer must freely provide the access.
J.The authority by rule shall prescribe preapproval
requirements and additional reporting requirements for taxpayers who claim tax
credits pursuant to this section.
K.On or before September 30 of each year, the
authority shall transmit a report to the governor, the president of the senate,
the speaker of the house of representatives and the chairpersons of the senate
finance committee and the house of representatives ways and means committee and
provide a copy of the report to the secretary of state. The report shall
include the following information:
1.The business names, locations, number of
employees and amount of compensation paid to employees qualifying for income
tax credits as reported to the authority.
2.The amount of capital investment, made during the
preceding fiscal year and cumulatively.
3.The total amount of income tax credits allowed
for the preceding taxable year and the number of qualified employment positions
for which credits were claimed pursuant to sections 431074 and 431161.
L.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Capital
investment" means an expenditure to acquire, lease or improve property
that is used in operating a business, including:
(a)Land, buildings, machinery and fixtures.
(b)For taxable years beginning from and after June
30, 2011, equipment.
2."Designated location" means the
location at which the required capital investment is made under subsection B of
this section.
3."Location" means a single parcel or
contiguous parcels of owned or leased land in this state, the structures and
personal property contained on the land or any part of the structures occupied
by the owner. Parcels that are separated only by a public thoroughfare or
right-of-way are considered to be contiguous but parcels that are in locations
respectively described by subsection B, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section are
not considered to be contiguous.
4."Qualified employment position" means
employment that meets the following requirements:
(a)The position consists of at least one thousand
seven hundred fifty hours per year of full-time permanent employment.
(b)The job duties are performed primarily at the
location or locations of the business in this state.
(c)The employment provides health insurance
coverage for the employee for which the employer pays at least sixty-five per cent percent of the premium or membership cost. If
the business is self-insured, the employer pays at least sixty-five per cent percent of a predetermined fixed cost per
employee for an insurance program that is payable whether or not the employee
has filed claims.
(d)The employer pays compensation at least equal to
the median wage by county as computed annually by the authority. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 42, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-1131, to read:
START_STATUTE42-1131.Corporate tax credits; annual report
A.Beginning
in 2017, the department shall annually report the information required by
subsection B of this section for any corporation that claims or carries forward
an authorized tax credit in an amount equal to or more than five thousand
dollars in the preceding taxable year pursuant to section 20224.03, 411507,
411525, 431161, 431164.01, 431164.03, 431164.04
or 431168.
B.The
report shall include the following information for each tax credit:
1.The
aggregate amount of tax credit used in the preceding taxable year and the
aggregate amount of carryforward for each subsequent taxable year.
2.A
reconciliation between the information provided in paragraph 1 of this
subsection and the corporations that are claiming the tax credit that includes
the name of each corporation, the amount of credit claimed by the corporation
and the amount of credit carried forward by the corporation.
C.The
department shall transmit a copy of the report required by this section to the
governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of
representatives, the chairpersons of the senate finance committee and the house
of representatives ways and means committee, or their successor committees, and
the secretary of state. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-2003, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2003.Authorized disclosure of confidential information
A.Confidential
information relating to:
1.A taxpayer may be
disclosed to the taxpayer, its successor in interest or a designee of the
taxpayer who is authorized in writing by the taxpayer.A principal
corporate officer of a parent corporation may execute a written authorization
for a controlled subsidiary.
2.A corporate taxpayer
may be disclosed to any principal officer, any person designated by a principal
officer or any person designated in a resolution by the corporate board of
directors or other similar governing body.
3.A partnership may be
disclosed to any partner of the partnership. This exception does not include
disclosure of confidential information of a particular partner unless otherwise
authorized.
4.An estate may be
disclosed to the personal representative of the estate and to any heir, next of
kin or beneficiary under the will of the decedent if the department finds that
the heir, next of kin or beneficiary has a material interest which that
will be affected by the confidential information.
5.A trust may be
disclosed to the trustee or trustees, jointly or separately, and to the grantor
or any beneficiary of the trust if the department finds that the grantor or
beneficiary has a material interest that will be affected by the confidential
information.
6.Any taxpayer may be
disclosed if the taxpayer has waived any rights to confidentiality either in
writing or on the record in any administrative or judicial proceeding.
7.The name and taxpayer
identification numbers of persons issued direct payment permits may be publicly
disclosed.
B.Confidential
information may be disclosed to:
1.Any employee of the
department whose official duties involve tax administration.
2.The office of the
attorney general solely for its use in preparation for, or in an investigation
that may result in, any proceeding involving tax administration before the department
or any other agency or board of this state, or before any grand jury or any
state or federal court.
3.The department of
liquor licenses and control for its use in determining whether a spirituous
liquor licensee has paid all transaction privilege taxes and affiliated excise
taxes incurred as a result of the sale of spirituous liquor, as defined in
section 4101, at the licensed establishment and imposed on the licensed
establishments by this state and its political subdivisions.
4.Other state tax
officials whose official duties require the disclosure for proper tax
administration purposes if the information is sought in connection with an
investigation or any other proceeding conducted by the official. Any
disclosure is limited to information of a taxpayer who is being investigated or
who is a party to a proceeding conducted by the official.
5.The following
agencies, officials and organizations, if they grant substantially similar
privileges to the department for the type of information being sought, pursuant
to statute and a written agreement between the department and the foreign
country, agency, state, Indian tribe or organization:
(a)The United States
internal revenue service, alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau of the
United States treasury, United States bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and
explosives of the United States department of justice, United States drug
enforcement agency and federal bureau of investigation.
(b)A state tax official
of another state.
(c)An organization of
states, federation of tax administrators or multistate tax commission that
operates an information exchange for tax administration purposes.
(d)An agency, official
or organization of a foreign country with responsibilities that are comparable
to those listed in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
(e)An agency, official
or organization of an Indian tribal government with responsibilities comparable
to the responsibilities of the agencies, officials or organizations identified
in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
6.The auditor general,
in connection with any audit of the department subject to the restrictions in
section 422002, subsection D.
7.Any person to the
extent necessary for effective tax administration in connection with:
(a)The processing,
storage, transmission, destruction and reproduction of the information.
(b)The programming,
maintenance, repair, testing and procurement of equipment for purposes of tax
administration.
(c)The collection of
the taxpayer's civil liability.
8.The office of
administrative hearings relating to taxes administered by the department
pursuant to section 421101, but the department shall not disclose any
confidential information:
(a)Regarding income tax
or withholding tax.
(b)On any tax issue
relating to information associated with the reporting of income tax or
withholding tax.
9.The United States
treasury inspector general for tax administration for the purpose of reporting
a violation of internal revenue code section 7213A (26 United States Code
section 7213A), unauthorized inspection of returns or return information.
10.The financial
management service of the United States treasury department for use in the
treasury offset program.
11.The United States
treasury department or its authorized agent for use in the state income tax
levy program and in the electronic federal tax payment system.
12.The Arizona
commerce authority for its use in:
(a)Qualifying renewable
energy operations for the tax incentives under sections 4212006, 431083.01
and 431164.01.
(b)Qualifying
businesses with a qualified facility for income tax credits under sections 431083.03
and 431164.04.
(c)Fulfilling its
annual reporting responsibility pursuant to section 411511, subsections
U and V and section 411512, subsections U and V.
(d)Certifying computer
data centers for tax relief under section 411519.
13.A prosecutor for
purposes of section 321164, subsection C.
14.The state fire
marshal for use in determining compliance with and enforcing title 41, chapter
16, article 3.1.
15.The department of
transportation for its use in administering taxes, surcharges and penalties
prescribed by title 28.
16.The Arizona
health care cost containment system administration for its use in administering
nursing facility provider assessments.
C.Confidential
information may be disclosed in any state or federal judicial or administrative
proceeding pertaining to tax administration pursuant to the following
conditions:
1.One or more of the
following circumstances must apply:
(a)The taxpayer is a
party to the proceeding.
(b)The proceeding arose
out of, or in connection with, determining the taxpayer's civil or criminal
liability, or the collection of the taxpayer's civil liability, with respect to
any tax imposed under this title or title 43.
(c)The treatment of an
item reflected on the taxpayer's return is directly related to the resolution
of an issue in the proceeding.
(d)Return information
directly relates to a transactional relationship between a person who is a
party to the proceeding and the taxpayer and directly affects the resolution of
an issue in the proceeding.
2.Confidential
information may not be disclosed under this subsection if the disclosure is
prohibited by section 422002, subsection C or D.
D.Identity information
may be disclosed for purposes of notifying persons entitled to tax refunds if
the department is unable to locate the persons after reasonable effort.
E.The department, on
the request of any person, shall provide the names and addresses of bingo
licensees as defined in section 5401, verify whether or not a person has
a privilege license and number, a tobacco product distributor's license and number or a
withholding license and number or disclose the information to be posted on the
department's website or otherwise publicly accessible pursuant to section 421124,
subsection F and section 423401.
F.A department
employee, in connection with the official duties relating to any audit,
collection activity or civil or criminal investigation, may disclose return
information to the extent that disclosure is necessary to obtain information
that is not otherwise reasonably available.These official duties
include the correct determination of and liability for tax, the amount to be
collected or the enforcement of other state tax revenue laws.
G.If an organization is
exempt from this state's income tax as provided in section 431201 for
any taxable year, the name and address of the organization and the application
filed by the organization on which the department made its determination for
exemption together with any papers submitted in support of the application and
any letter or document issued by the department concerning the application are
open to public inspection.
H.Confidential
information relating to transaction privilege tax, use tax, severance tax, jet
fuel excise and use tax and any other tax collected by the department on behalf
of any jurisdiction may be disclosed to any county, city or town tax official
if the information relates to a taxpayer who is or may be taxable by a county,
city or town or who may be subject to audit by the department pursuant to
section 426002.Any taxpayer information released by the
department to the county, city or town:
1.May only be used for
internal purposes, including audits.
2.May not be disclosed
to the public in any manner that does not comply with confidentiality standards
established by the department.The county, city or town shall agree
in writing with the department that any release of confidential information
that violates the confidentiality standards adopted by the department will
result in the immediate suspension of any rights of the county, city or town to
receive taxpayer information under this subsection.
I.The department may
disclose statistical information gathered from confidential information if it
does not disclose confidential information attributable to any one taxpayer.
The department may disclose statistical information gathered from confidential
information, even if it discloses confidential information attributable to a
taxpayer, to:
1.The state treasurer
in order to comply with the requirements of section 425029, subsection
A, paragraph 3.
2.The joint legislative
income tax credit review committee, the joint legislative budget committee
staff and the legislative staff in order to comply with the requirements of
section 43221.
J.The department may
disclose: 
1.The aggregate amounts of any tax
credit, tax deduction or tax exemption enacted after January 1, 1994.
Information subject to disclosure under this subsection shall not be disclosed
if a taxpayer demonstrates to the department that such information would give
an unfair advantage to competitors.
2.The annual report of corporate tax credits
required by section 421131.
K.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection C, confidential information, described in
section 422001, paragraph 1, subdivision (a), item (ii), may be
disclosed to law enforcement agencies for law enforcement purposes.
L.The department may
provide transaction privilege tax license information to property tax officials
in a county for the purpose of identification and verification of the tax
status of commercial property.
M.The department may
provide transaction privilege tax, luxury tax, use tax, property tax and
severance tax information to the ombudsmancitizens aide pursuant to
title 41, chapter 8, article 5.
N.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, a court may order the department to disclose
confidential information pertaining to a party to an action. An order shall be
made only upon on a showing of good cause and
that the party seeking the information has made demand upon on
the taxpayer for the information.
O.This section does not
prohibit the disclosure by the department of any information or documents
submitted to the department by a bingo licensee. Before disclosing the
information the department shall obtain the name and address of the person
requesting the information.
P.If the department is
required or permitted to disclose confidential information, it may charge the
person or agency requesting the information for the reasonable cost of its
services.
Q.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, the department of revenue shall release
confidential information as requested by the department of economic security
pursuant to section 421122 or 46291. Information disclosed under
this subsection is limited to the same type of information that the United
States internal revenue service is authorized to disclose under section
6103(l)(6) of the internal revenue code.
R.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, the department of revenue shall release
confidential information as requested by the courts and clerks of the court
pursuant to section 421122.
S.To comply with the
requirements of section 425031, the department may disclose to the state
treasurer, to the county stadium district board of directors and to any city or
town tax official that is part of the county stadium district confidential
information attributable to a taxpayer's business activity conducted in the
county stadium district.
T.The department shall
release to the attorney general confidential information as requested by the
attorney general for purposes of determining compliance with or enforcing any
of the following:
1.Any public health
control law relating to tobacco sales as provided under title 36, chapter 6,
article 14.
2.Any law relating to
reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards as provided under title 41,
chapter 16, article 3.1.
3.Sections 447101
and 447111, the master settlement agreement referred to in those
sections and all agreements regarding disputes under the master settlement
agreement.
U.For proceedings
before the department, the office of administrative hearings, the board of tax
appeals or any state or federal court involving penalties that were assessed
against a return preparer, an electronic return preparer or a payroll service
company pursuant to section 421103.02, 421125.01 or 43419,
confidential information may be disclosed only before the judge or
administrative law judge adjudicating the proceeding, the parties to the
proceeding and the parties' representatives in the proceeding prior to its
introduction into evidence in the proceeding.The confidential
information may be introduced as evidence in the proceeding only if the
taxpayer's name, the names of any dependents listed on the return, all social
security numbers, the taxpayer's address, the taxpayer's signature and any
attachments containing any of the foregoing information are redacted and if
either:
1.The treatment of an
item reflected on such return is or may be related to the resolution of an
issue in the proceeding.
2.Such a return or the return information relates or may relate
to a transactional relationship between a person who is a party to the
proceeding and the taxpayer which
that directly affects the
resolution of an issue in the proceeding. 
3.The method of payment
of the taxpayer's withholding tax liability or the method of filing the
taxpayer's withholding tax return is an issue for the period.
V.The department and
attorney general may share the information specified in subsection T of this
section with any of the following:
1.Federal, state or
local agencies for the purposes of enforcement of corresponding laws of other
states.
2.A court, arbitrator,
data clearinghouse or similar entity for the purpose of assessing compliance
with or making calculations required by the master settlement agreement or
agreements regarding disputes under the master settlement agreement, and with
counsel for the parties or expert witnesses in any such proceeding, if the
information otherwise remains confidential.
W.The department may
provide the name and address of qualifying hospitals and qualifying health care
organizations, as defined in section 425001, to a business classified
and reporting transaction privilege tax under the utilities classification.
X.The department may disclose
to an official of any city, town or county in a current agreement or
considering a prospective agreement with the department as described in section
425032.02, subsection F any information relating to amounts subject to
distribution required by section 425032.02. Information disclosed by
the department under this subsection:
1.May only be used by
the city, town or county for internal purposes.
2.May not be disclosed
to the public in any manner that does not comply with confidentiality standards
established by the department. The city, town or county must agree with the
department in writing that any release of confidential information that
violates the confidentiality standards will result in the immediate suspension
of any rights of the city, town or county to receive information under this
subsection. END_STATUTE

