



PREFILED DEC 18 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: collection; voted early ballots;
  limitation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2010









Introduced by
Representative
  Kern





AN ACT

amending section
16-1005, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to ballot abuse.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-1005, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-1005.Ballot abuse; violation; classification
A.Any person who knowingly marks a voted or unvoted
ballot or ballot envelope with the intent to fix an election for his that
person's own benefit or for that of another person is guilty of a
class 5 felony.
B.It is unlawful to offer or provide any
consideration to acquire a voted or unvoted early ballot.A person
who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
C.It is unlawful to receive or agree to receive any
consideration in exchange for a voted or unvoted ballot.A person
who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
D.It is unlawful to possess a voted or unvoted
ballot with the intent to sell the voted or unvoted ballot of another person.
A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
E.A person or entity that knowingly solicits the
collection of voted or unvoted ballots by misrepresenting itself as an election
official or as an official ballot repository or is found to be serving as a
ballot drop off site, other than those established and staffed by election
officials, is guilty of a class 5 felony.
F.A person who knowingly collects voted or unvoted
ballots and who does not
turn those ballots in to an election official, the United States postal service
or any other entity permitted by law to transmit post is guilty of a class 5
felony.
G.A person who engages or participates in a pattern
of ballot fraud is guilty of a class 4 felony. For the purposes of this
subsection, "pattern of ballot fraud" means the person has offered or
provided any consideration to three or more persons to acquire the voted or
unvoted ballot of a person.
H.A person
who knowingly collects more than two voted or unvoted early ballots during any
two-year election cycle is guilty of a class 6 felony. This subsection does
not apply to a family member, household member or caregiver of the voter or to
a candidate or a candidate's spouse. For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Caregiver"
means a person who provides medical or health care assistance to the voter in a
residence, nursing care institution, hospice facility, assisted living center,
assisted living facility, assisted living home, residential care institution,
adult day health care facility or adult foster care home.
2."Family
member" means a person who is related to the voter by blood, marriage,
adoption or legal guardianship.
3."Household
member" means a person who resides at the same residence as the voter.END_STATUTE

