



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: voter registration records; death
  records







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2084









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending section
16-165, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to qualification and registration of
electors.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-165, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-165.Causes for cancellation
A.The county recorder shall cancel a registration:
1.At the request of the person registered.
2.When the county recorder knows of the death of
the person registered.
3.If the person has been adjudicated an
incapacitated person as defined in section 145101.
4.When the person registered has been convicted of
a felony, and the judgment of conviction has not been reversed or set aside.
The county recorder shall cancel the registration on receipt of notice of a
felony conviction from the court or from the secretary of state or when
reported by the elector on a signed juror questionnaire that is completed
pursuant to section 21314.
5.Upon
On production of a
certified copy of a judgment directing a cancellation to be made.
6.Promptly after the election if the person
registered has applied for a ballot pursuant to section 16126.
7.When a person has been on the inactive voter list
and has not voted during the time periods prescribed in section 16166,
subsection C.
8.When the county recorder receives written
information from the person registered that the person has a change of
residence within the county and the person does not complete and return a new
registration form within twentynine days after the county recorder mails
notification of the need to complete and return a new registration form with
current information.
9.When the county recorder receives written
information from the person registered that the person has a change of address
outside the county.
B.If the county recorder cancels a registration
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 8 of this section, the county recorder
shall send the person notice that the registration has been cancelled and a
registration form with the information described in section 16131,
subsection C attached to the form.
C.When proceedings in the superior court or the United States district court
result in a person being declared incapable of taking care of himself and
managing his property, and for whom a guardian of the person and estate is
appointed, result in such person being committed as an insane person or result
in a person being convicted of a felony, the clerk of the superior court in the
county in which those proceedings occurred shall file with the secretary of
state an official notice of that fact. The secretary of state shall notify the
appropriate county recorder and the recorder shall cancel the name of the
person upon on the register. Such notice shall name the
person covered, shall give the person's date and place of birth if available,
the person's social security number, if available, the person's usual place of
residence, the person's address and the date of the notice, and shall be filed
with the recorder of the county where the person last resided. 
D.Each month the department of health services
shall transmit to the secretary of state without charge a record of the death
of every resident of the state sixteen years of age and older reported to the
department within the preceding month.This record shall include
only the name of the decedent, the decedent's date of birth, the decedent's
social security number, if available, the decedent's usual legal residence at
the time of death and, if available, the decedent's father's name or mother's
maiden name.The record shall
be used by the secretary of state shall use the record for the sole purpose of
canceling the names of deceased persons from the statewide voter registration
database.In addition, the
department of health services shall annually provide the secretary of state
with access to the statewide system of all records of all deaths and the
secretary of state may compare the records of deaths with the statewide voter
registration database. Public access to the records is
prohibited.Use of information from the records for purposes other
than those required by this section is prohibited. The name of each deceased
person shall promptly be canceled from the statewide voter registration
database and the secretary of state shall notify the appropriate county
recorder and the recorder shall cancel the name of the person from the
register. END_STATUTE

