



PREFILED JAN 08 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: unmanned aircraft systems; unlawful use







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2073









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Barton: Boyer





AN ACT

amending title
13, chapter 29, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 13-2931; relating
to offenses against public order.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 13, chapter 29, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-2931, to read:
START_STATUTE13-2931.Unlawful use of unmanned aircraft systems; classification;
definitions
A.It is
unlawful for a person to operate or use an unmanned aircraft system to
intentionally photograph, electronically record, collect information, conduct
surveillance or gather evidence on either of the following:
1.A
critical facility, without the prior written consent of the owner or operator
of the critical facility.
2.A person
or the person's property, without the prior written consent of the person.
B.This
section does not apply to a person who uses an unmanned aircraft system on the
person's own property or on another person's property if the person has a valid
lease, equitable servitude, rightofway, right of use, permit,
license or other lawful right to use the property.
C.A
violation of subsection a, paragraph 1 of this section is a class __ felony,
except that a second or subsequent violation is a class __ felony. A violation
of subsection a, paragraph 2 of this section is a class __ misdemeanor.
D.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Critical
facility" means any of the following:
(a)Petroleum and alumina refineries.
(b)Chemical and rubber
manufacturing facilities.
(c)Nuclear power electric
generation facilities.
2."Federal
government" means the United States government and any department, agency
or instrumentality of the United States government.
3."State"
means this state and any department, agency or instrumentality of this state.
4."Unmanned
aircraft system" means a powered aircraft that does not carry a human
operator, that is autonomous or remotely piloted or operated and that is
expendable or recoverable. Unmanned aircraft system does not include a
satellite orbiting the earth or an unmanned aircraft system that is used by any
of the following:
(a)The federal government or a
person who is acting pursuant to a contract with the federal government to
conduct surveillance of specific activities. 
(b)This state or a person who is
acting pursuant to a contract with this state to conduct surveillance of
specific activities.
(c)A law enforcement agency or fire
department in this state. END_STATUTE


