



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: trade names; trademarks; online
  registration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2047









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
44-1443, 44-1445, 44-1460 and 44-1460.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
the secretary of state.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1443, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1443.Application for registration
A.Subject to the limitations set forth in this
article, any person who is domiciled in this state and who adopts and uses a
trademark or service mark, or any person who adopts and uses a trademark or
service mark in this state, may file in the office of the secretary of state, on a form to be furnished by the secretary of
state, an application for registration of that mark setting
forth, but not limited to, the following information:
1.The name and business address of the person
applying for such registration and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation.
2.The goods or services in connection with which
the mark is used, the mode or manner in which the mark is used in connection
with such goods or services and the class in which such goods or services fall.
3.The date when the mark was first used anywhere,
and the date when it was first used in this state by the applicant or his the applicant's predecessor in business.
4.A statement that the applicant is the owner of
the mark and that no other person has the right to use such mark in this state
either in the identical form thereof or in such near resemblance thereto as
might be calculated to deceive or to be mistaken therefor.
B.The application shall be:
1.Signed and verified by the applicant, or by a member of the firm or any officer of
the corporation or association applying.
2.Accompanied by a specimen or facsimile of such
mark in triplicate.
C.the
application for registration may be submitted on a form furnished by the
secretary of state or on the secretary of state's website. The secretary of
state shall allow registration to be completed and submitted on the secretary
of state's website. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-1445, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1445.Duration of registration; renewal notice; application and
fee
A.Registration of a
mark under the provisions of this article shall be effective for a term of ten
years from the date of registration. Upon
application filed within six months prior to the expiration of such term, on a
form to be furnished by the secretary of state, The registration
may be renewed for a like term if the
application is filed within six months before the registration term expires.
A mark registration may be renewed for successive periods of ten years in a
like manner.
B.The secretary of
state shall notify registrants of marks under this article of the necessity of
renewal within the year next preceding the expiration of the ten years from the
date of registration by writing to the last known address of the registrants.
C.Any registered mark
expires ten years from the date of the registration, or of the last reregistration thereof renewal, and may be reregistered renewed by filing an application with the
secretary of state on a form furnished by
the secretary of state and paying the renewal fee therefor within six months prior to before the expiration of the registration.
D.The registration renewal application may be
submitted on a form furnished by the secretary of state or on the secretary of
state's website. The secretary of state shall allow registration renewal to be
completed and submitted on the secretary of state's website.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 44-1460, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1460.Registration of trade name, title or designation
A.Any person, partnership, corporation, firm,
association, society, foundation, federation or organization doing business in
this state, or any foreign corporation licensed to
exercise its corporate powers in this state, may register with the secretary of
state, on a form to be furnished by him,
the name, title or designation under which such applicant is operating, setting
forth, but not limited to, the following information:
1.The name and business address of the applicant
for such registration.If the applicant is a corporation, the state
of its incorporation shall be disclosed.
2.The name, title or designation to be registered.
3.The general nature of the business conducted by
the applicant.
4.The length of time during which the name, title
or designation has been used by the applicant in his the
applicant's business operations in this state.
B.The applicant or a member or officer of the firm,
partnership, corporation, association, society, foundation, federation or other
organization shall sign and verify the application.
C.A single name, title or designation may be
registered upon on each application submitted
under the provisions of
this article.
D.the
application for registration may be submitted on a form furnished by the
secretary of state or on the secretary of state's website. The secretary of
state shall allow registration to be completed and submitted on the secretary
of state's website. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 44-1460.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1460.02.Effective term of registration; renewal; expiration notice
A.Registration of a name, title or designation
under the terms of this article is effective for a term of five years from the
date of registration.Upon
application filed within six months prior to the expiration of such term, on a
form furnished by the secretary of state, The registration may be
renewed at the end of each five-year period for a like term if the application for renewal is submitted within six
months before the registration term expires. the application for renewal may be submitted on a form
furnished by the secretary of state or on the secretary of state's website.
The secretary of state shall allow registration renewal to be completed and
submitted on the secretary of state's website.
B.The secretary of state shall notify registrants
within the sixty days next preceding the expiration of the five years from the
date of registration of the necessity of renewal by writing to the last known
address of the registrants. END_STATUTE

