



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: DCS information; governor access







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2059









Introduced by
Representatives
  Townsend: Allen J, Campbell, Finchem, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
8807, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to child safety information.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-807, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-807.DCS information; public record; use; confidentiality;
violation; classification; definition
A.DCS information shall be maintained by the
department as required by federal law as a condition of the allocation of
federal monies to this state. All exceptions for the public release of DCS
information shall be construed as openly as possible under federal law.
B.The department, or a person who receives DCS
information pursuant to this subsection, shall provide DCS information to a
federal agency, a state agency, a tribal agency, a county or municipal agency,
a law enforcement agency, a prosecutor, an attorney or a guardian ad litem
representing a child victim of crime pursuant to article II, section 2.1,
Constitution of Arizona, a school, a community service provider, a contract
service provider or any other person that is providing services pursuant to
this article or article 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 of this chapter:
1.To meet its duties to provide for the safety and
permanency of a child, provide services to a parent, guardian or custodian or
provide services to family members to strengthen the family pursuant to this
article or article 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 of this chapter.
2.To enforce or prosecute any violation involving
child abuse or neglect or to assert the rights of the child as a victim of a
crime.
3.To provide information to a defendant after a
criminal charge has been filed as required by an order of the criminal court.
4.To help investigate and prosecute any violation
involving domestic violence as defined in section 133601 or violent
sexual assault as prescribed in section 131423.
C.The department shall disclose DCS information to
a court, a party in a dependency or termination of parental rights proceeding
or the party's attorney, the foster care review board or a court appointed
special advocate for the purposes of and as prescribed in this title.
D.The department shall disclose DCS information to
a domestic relations, family or conciliation court if the DCS information is
necessary to promote the safety and wellbeing of children. The court
shall notify the parties that it has received the DCS information.
E.A person or agent of a person who is the subject
of DCS information shall have access to DCS information concerning that person.
F.The department may provide:
1.DCS information to confirm, clarify, correct or
supplement information concerning an allegation or actual instance of child
abuse or neglect that has been made public by a source or sources outside the
department.
2.DCS information to a person who is conducting
bona fide research, the results of which might provide DCS information that is
beneficial in improving the department.
3.Access to DCS information to the parent, guardian
or custodian of a child if the DCS information is reasonably necessary to
promote the safety, permanency and wellbeing of the child.
4.DCS information if an employee of the department
has a reasonable belief that exigent circumstances exist.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "exigent circumstances" means a condition
or situation in which the death of or serious injury to a child will likely
result in the near future without immediate intervention.
G.The department shall disclose DCS information to
a county medical examiner or an alternate medical examiner directing an
investigation into the circumstances surrounding a death pursuant to section 11593.
H.Access to DCS information in the central registry
shall be provided as prescribed in section 8804.
I.To provide oversight of the department, the
department shall provide access to DCS information to the following persons, if
the DCS information is reasonably necessary for the person to perform the
person's official duties:
1.Federal or state auditors.
2.Persons conducting any accreditation deemed
necessary by the department.
3.A standing committee of the legislature or a
committee appointed by the president of the senate or the speaker of the house
of representatives for purposes of conducting investigations related to the
legislative oversight of the department.This information shall not
be further disclosed unless a court has ordered the disclosure of this
information, the information has been disclosed in a public or court record, or
the information has been disclosed in the course of a public meeting or court
proceeding.
4.A legislator who requests DCS information in the
regular course of the legislator's duties.A legislator may discuss
this information with another legislator if the other legislator has signed the
form prescribed in subdivision (d) of this paragraph in regard to the specific
file that will be discussed.This information shall not be further
disclosed unless a court has ordered the disclosure of this information, the
information has been disclosed in a public or court record, or the information
has been disclosed in the course of a public meeting or court proceeding. To
request a file pursuant to this paragraph:
(a)The legislator shall submit a written request
for DCS information to the presiding officer of the body of which the state
legislator is a member. The request shall state the name of the person whose
case file is to be reviewed and any other information that will assist the
department in locating the file.
(b)The presiding officer shall forward the request
to the department within five working days of the receipt of the request.
(c)The department shall make the necessary
arrangements for the legislator to review the file at an office of the
department, chosen by the legislator, within ten working days.
(d)The legislator shall sign a form, consistent
with the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph 3 of this subsection,
before reviewing the file, that outlines the confidentiality laws governing
department files and penalties for further release of the information.
5.A citizen review panel as prescribed by federal
law, a child fatality review team as provided in title 36, chapter 35 and the office
of ombudsman-citizens aide.
6.A human rights committee established pursuant to
section 413801.
7.The
governor.
J.A person who has been denied DCS information
regarding a fatality or near fatality caused by abuse, abandonment or neglect
pursuant to subsection L of this section
or section 8807.01 may bring a special action pursuant to
section 39121.02 in the superior court to order the department to
release that DCS information. A legislator has standing to bring or to join a
special action regarding the release of DCS information or to challenge the
redaction of released DCS information. The plaintiff shall provide notice to
the county attorney, who has standing and may participate in the action. The
court shall review the requested records in camera and order disclosure
consistent with subsections A and L of this section and section 8807.01.The
court shall take reasonable steps to prevent any clearly unwarranted invasions
of privacy and protect the privacy and dignity of victims of crime pursuant to
article II, section 2.1, subsection C, Constitution of Arizona.
K.The department or a person who is not
specifically authorized by this section to obtain DCS information may petition
a judge of the superior court to order the department to release DCS
information. The plaintiff shall provide notice to the county attorney and to
the attorney and guardian ad litem for the child, who have standing and may
participate in the action. The court shall review the requested records in
camera and shall balance the rights of the parties who are entitled to
confidentiality pursuant to this section against the rights of the parties who
are seeking the release of the DCS information.The court may
release otherwise confidential DCS information only if the rights of the
parties seeking the DCS information and any benefits from releasing the DCS
information outweigh the rights of the parties who are entitled to
confidentiality and any harm that may result from releasing the DCS
information. The court shall take reasonable steps to prevent any clearly
unwarranted invasions of privacy and protect the privacy and dignity of victims
of crime pursuant to article II, section 2.1, subsection C, Constitution of
Arizona.
L.Except as provided in subsection M of this
section, before it releases records under this section or section 8807.01,
the department shall take whatever precautions it determines are reasonably
necessary to protect the identity and safety of a person who reports child
abuse or neglect and to protect any other person if the department believes
that disclosure of the DCS information would be likely to endanger the life or
safety of any person. The department is not required by this section to
disclose DCS information if the department demonstrates that disclosure would
cause a specific, material harm to a department investigation. The department
is not required by this section to disclose DCS information if, in consultation
with the county attorney, the county attorney demonstrates that disclosure would
cause a specific, material harm to a criminal investigation or prosecution.
M.A person who is the subject of an unfounded
report or complaint made pursuant to this article or article 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
or 14 of this chapter and who believes that the report or complaint was made in
bad faith or with malicious intent may petition a judge of the superior court
to order the department to release the DCS information.The petition
shall specifically set forth reasons supporting the person's belief that the
report or complaint was made in bad faith or with malicious intent. The court
shall review the DCS information in camera and the person filing the petition
shall be allowed to present evidence in support of the petition. If the court
determines that there is a reasonable question of fact as to whether the report
or complaint was made in bad faith or with malicious intent and that disclosure
of the identity of the person making the report or complaint would not be
likely to endanger the life or safety of the person making the report or
complaint, it shall provide a copy of the DCS information to the person filing
the petition and the original DCS information is subject to discovery in a
subsequent civil action regarding the making of the report or complaint.
N.The department shall provide the person who
conducts a forensic medical evaluation with any records the person requests,
including social history and family history regarding the child, the child's
siblings and the child's parents or guardians.
O.The department shall
provide DCS information on request to a prospective adoptive parent, foster
parent or guardian, if the information concerns a child the prospective
adoptive parent, foster parent or guardian seeks to adopt or provide care for.
P.If the department
receives information that is confidential by law, the department shall maintain
the confidentiality of the information as prescribed in the applicable law.
Q.A person may
authorize the release of DCS information about the person but may not waive the
confidentiality of DCS information concerning any other person.
R.The department may
provide a summary of the outcome of a department investigation to the person
who reported the suspected child abuse or neglect.
S.The department shall
adopt rules to facilitate the accessibility of DCS information.
T.The department or a
person who receives DCS information pursuant to subsection B of this section
shall provide DCS information to law enforcement and a court to protect the
safety of any employee of the department or the office of the attorney general
or to protect a family member of such an employee.
U.A person who receives
DCS information shall maintain the confidentiality of the information and shall
not further disclose the information unless the disclosure is authorized by law
or a court order.
V.The department may
charge a fee for copying costs required to prepare DCS information for release
pursuant to this section or section 8807.01.
W.A person who violates
this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
X.For the purposes of
this section, "DCS information" includes all information the
department gathers during the course of an investigation conducted under this
chapter from the time a file is opened and until it is closed. DCS information
does not include information that is contained in child welfare agency
licensing records. END_STATUTE

