



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: tax lien foreclosures; subdivisions;
  exemption







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2068









Introduced by
Representative
  Shope





AN ACT

amending section
322181, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the sale of subdivided
lands.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-2181, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2181.Notice to commissioner of intention to subdivide lands;
unlawful acting in concert; exceptions; deed restrictions; definition
A.Before offering
subdivided lands for sale or lease, the subdivider shall notify the
commissioner in writing of the subdivider's intention. The notice shall
contain:
1.The name and address of
the owner.If the holder of any ownership interest in the land is
other than an individual, such as a corporation, partnership or trust, the notice shall contain a
statement naming the type of legal entity and listing the interest and the
extent of any interest of each principal in the entity. For the purposes of
this section, "principal" means any person or entity having a ten per cent percent or more financial interest or, if the
legal entity is a trust, each beneficiary of the trust holding a ten per cent percent or more beneficial interest.
2.The name and address of
the subdivider.
3.The legal description and
area of the land.
4.A true statement of the
condition of the title to the land, including all encumbrances on the land, and
a statement of the provisions agreed to by the holder of any blanket
encumbrance enabling a purchaser to acquire title to a lot or parcel free of
the lien of the blanket encumbrance on completion of all payments and
performance of all of the terms and provisions required to be made or performed
by the purchaser under the real estate sales contract by which the purchaser
has acquired the lot or parcel. The subdivider shall file copies of documents
acceptable to the department containing these provisions with the commissioner
before the sale of any subdivision lot or parcel subject to a blanket
encumbrance.
5.The terms and conditions
on which it is intended to dispose of the land, together with copies of any
real estate sales contract, conveyance, lease, assignment or other instrument
intended to be used, and any other information the owner or the owner's agent
or subdivider desires to present.
6.A map of the
subdivision that has been filed in the office of the county recorder in the
county in which the subdivision is located.
7.A brief but
comprehensive statement describing the land on and the locality in which the
subdivision is located.
8.A statement of the
provisions that have been made for permanent access and provisions, if any, for
health department approved sewage and solid waste collection and disposal and
public utilities in the proposed subdivision, including water, electricity, gas
and telephone facilities.
9.A statement as to the
location of the nearest public common and high schools available for the
attendance of school age pupils residing on the subdivision property.
10.A statement of the use
or uses for which the proposed subdivision will be offered.
11.A statement of the
provisions, if any, limiting the use or occupancy of the parcels in the
subdivision, together with copies of any restrictive covenants affecting all or
part of the subdivision.
12.The name and business
address of the principal broker selling or leasing, within this state, lots or
parcels in the subdivision.
13.A true statement of
the approximate amount of indebtedness that is a lien on the subdivision or any
part of the subdivision and that was incurred to pay for the construction of
any onsite or offsite improvement, or any community or
recreational facility.
14.A true statement or
reasonable estimate, if applicable, of the amount of any indebtedness that has
been or is proposed to be incurred by an existing or proposed special district,
entity, taxing area or assessment district, within the boundaries of which the
subdivision, or any part of the subdivision, is located, and that is to pay for
the construction or installation of any improvement or to furnish community or
recreational facilities to the subdivision, and which amounts are to be
obtained by ad valorem tax or assessment, or by a special assessment or tax
upon the subdivision or any part of the subdivision.
15.A true statement as to
the approximate amount of annual taxes, special assessments or fees to be paid
by the buyer for the proposed annual maintenance of common facilities in the
subdivision.
16.A statement of the
provisions for easements for permanent access for irrigation water where
applicable.
17.A true statement of
assurances for the completion of offsite improvements, such as roads,
utilities, community or recreational facilities and other improvements to be
included in the offering or represented as being in the offering, and approval
of the offering by the political subdivision with authority. This statement
shall include a trust agreement or any other evidence of assurances for
delivery of the improvements and a statement of the provisions, if any, for the
continued maintenance of the improvements.
18.A true statement of
the nature of any improvements to be installed by the subdivider, the estimated
schedule for completion and the estimated costs related to the improvements
that will be borne by purchasers of lots in the subdivision.
19.A true statement of
the availability of sewage disposal facilities and other public utilities,
including water, electricity, gas and telephone facilities in the subdivision,
the estimated schedule for their installation, and the estimated costs related
to the facilities and utilities that will be borne by purchasers of lots in the
subdivision.
20.A true statement as to
whether all or any portion of the subdivision is located in an open range or
area in which livestock may roam at large under the laws of this state and what
provisions, if any, have been made for the fencing of the subdivision to
preclude livestock from roaming within the subdivided lands.
21.If the subdivider is a
subsidiary corporation, a true statement identifying the parent corporation and
any of the following in which the parent or any of its subsidiaries is or has
been involved within the past five years:
(a)Any subdivision in this state.
(b)Any subdivision, wherever located, for which
registration is required pursuant to the federal interstate land sales full
disclosure act.
(c)Any subdivision, wherever located, for which
registration would have been required pursuant to the federal interstate land
sales full disclosure act but for the exemption for subdivisions whose lots are
all twenty acres or more in size.
22.A true statement identifying all other
subdivisions, designated in paragraph 21 of this subsection, in which any of
the following is or, within the last five years, has been directly or
indirectly involved:
(a)The holder of any
ownership interest in the land.
(b)The subdivider.
(c)Any principal or
officer in the holder or subdivider.
23.A true statement as to
whether all or any portion of the subdivision is located in territory in the
vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in
section 288461, in territory in the vicinity of a public airport as
defined in section 288486, on or after July 1, 2001, in a high noise or
accident potential zone as defined in section 288461 or on or after July
1 of the year in which the subdivision becomes located in a high noise or
accident potential zone.The statement required pursuant to this
paragraph does not require the amendment or refiling of any notice filed before
July 1, 2001 or before July 1 of the year in which the subdivision becomes
located in a high noise or accident potential zone.
24.If the subdivision is
a conversion from multifamily rental to condominiums as defined in section 331202,
a true statement as to the following:
(a)That the property is a conversion from
multifamily rental to condominiums.
(b)The date original construction was completed.
25.Other information and documents and
certifications as the commissioner may reasonably require provided that the
subdivider shall not be required to disclose any critical infrastructure
information as defined in section 411801 or any information contained in
a report issued pursuant to section 414273.
B.The commissioner, on
application, may grant a subdivider of lots or parcels within a subdivision for
which a public report was previously issued by the commissioner an exemption
from all or part of the notification requirements of subsection A of this
section. The subdivider shall file a statement with the commissioner
indicating the change of ownership in the lots or parcels together with any
material changes occurring subsequent to the original approval of the
subdivision within which the lots or parcels are located.The
statement shall further refer to the original approval by the commissioner.
C.If the subdivision is
within an active management area, as defined in section 45402, the
subdivider shall accompany the notice with a certificate of assured water
supply issued by the director of water resources along with proof that all
applicable fees have been paid pursuant to sections 483772 and 483774.01,
unless the subdivider has obtained a written commitment of water service for
the subdivision from a city, town or private water company designated as having
an assured water supply by the director of water resources pursuant to section
45576 or is exempt from the requirement pursuant to section 45576.
If the subdivider has submitted a certificate of assured water supply to a
city, town or county prior to approval of the plat by the city, town or county
and this has been noted on the face of the plat, the submission constitutes
compliance with this subsection if the subdivider provides proof to the
commissioner that all applicable fees have been paid pursuant to sections 483772
and 483774.01.
D.It is unlawful for a
person or group of persons acting in concert to attempt to avoid this article
by acting in concert to divide a parcel of land or sell subdivision lots by
using a series of owners or conveyances or by any other method that ultimately
results in the division of the lands into a subdivision or the sale of
subdivided land.The plan or offering is subject to this
article.Unlawful acting in concert pursuant to this subsection with
respect to the sale or lease of subdivision lots requires proof that the real
estate licensee or other licensed professional knew or with the exercise of
reasonable diligence should have known that property which the licensee listed
or for which the licensee acted in any capacity as agent was subdivided land
subject to this article. A familial relationship alone is not sufficient to
constitute unlawful acting in concert.
E.A creation of six or
more lots, parcels or fractional interests in improved or unimproved land, lots
or parcels of any size is subject to this article except when:
1.Each of the lots,
parcels or fractional interests represents, on a partition basis, thirtysix
acres or more in area of land located in this state, including to the centerline
of dedicated roads or easements, if any, contiguous to the land in which the
interests are held.
2.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are the result of a
foreclosure of the right to redeem under title 42, chapter 18, a
foreclosure sale, the exercise by a trustee under a deed of trust of a power of
sale or the grant of a deed in lieu of foreclosure. This paragraph:
(a)Does
not allow circumvention of the requirements of this article.
(b)Does
not apply to a tax lien investor who receives the lots, parcels or fractional
interests as a result of a foreclosure of the right to redeem under title 42,
chapter 18 if the tax lien investor plans to offer the subdivided lands for
sale to a person who is not required to complete a public report.
3.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are created by a valid order or decree of a court pursuant
to and through compliance with title 12, chapter 8, article 7 or by operation
of law.This paragraph does not allow circumvention of the
requirements of this article.
4.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests consist of interests in any oil, gas or mineral lease,
permit, claim or right therein and such interests are regulated as securities
by the United States or by this state.
5.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are registered as securities under the laws of the United
States or the laws of this state or are exempt transactions under section 441844,
441845 or 441846.
6.The commissioner by
special order exempts offerings or dispositions of any lots, parcels or
fractional interests from compliance with this article on written petition and
on a showing satisfactory to the commissioner that compliance is not essential
to the public interest or for the protection of buyers.
7.A sale or lease of a
lot, parcel or fractional interest occurs ten or more years after the sale or
lease of another lot, parcel or fractional interest and the other lot, parcel
or fractional interest is not subject to this article and is treated as an
independent parcel unless, upon investigation by the commissioner, there is
evidence of intent to subdivide.
F.In areas outside of
active management areas established pursuant to title 45, chapter 2, article 2:
1.If the subdivision is
located in a county that has adopted the provision authorized by section 11823,
subsection A, or in a city or town that has enacted an ordinance pursuant to
section 9463.01, subsection O, the subdivider shall accompany the notice
with a report issued by the director of water resources pursuant to section 45108
stating that the subdivision has an adequate water supply, unless one of the
following applies:
(a)The subdivider
submitted the report to a city, town or county before approval of the plat by
the city, town or county and this has been noted on the face of the plat.
(b)The subdivider has
obtained a written commitment of water service for the subdivision from a city,
town or private water company designated as having an adequate water supply by
the director of water resources pursuant to section 45108.
(c)The plat was approved
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K,
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 11823, subsection B,
paragraph 1, pursuant to an exemption granted by the director of water
resources under section 45108.02 and the exemption has not expired or
pursuant to an exemption granted by the director under section 45108.03.If
the plat was approved pursuant to an authorized exemption, the state real
estate commissioner shall require that all promotional material and contracts
for the sale of lots in the subdivision adequately display the following:
(i)The director of water
resources' report or the developer's brief summary of the report as approved by
the commissioner on
the proposed water supply for the subdivision.
(ii)A statement
describing the exemption under which the subdivision was approved, including
the specific conditions of the exemption that were met. If the plat was
approved by the legislative body of a city or town pursuant to an exemption
authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K or by the board of
supervisors of a county pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 11823,
subsection B, paragraph 1, the subdivider shall record the document required by section
33406.
(d)The subdivision
received final plat approval from the city, town or county before the
requirement for an adequate water supply became effective in the city, town or
county, and there have been no material changes to the plat since the final
plat approval. If changes were made to the plat after the final plat approval,
the director of water resources shall determine whether the changes are
material pursuant to the rules adopted by the director to implement section 45108.
If this subdivision applies, the state real estate commissioner shall require
that all promotional materials and contracts for the sale of lots in the
subdivision adequately display the director of water resources' report or the
developer's brief summary of the report as approved by the commissioner on the
proposed water supply for the subdivision.
2.If the subdivision is
not located in a county that has adopted the provision authorized by section 11823,
subsection A or in a city or town that has enacted an ordinance pursuant to
section 9463.01, subsection O, and if the director of water resources,
pursuant to section 45108, reports an inadequate onsite supply of
water to meet the needs projected by the developer or if no water is available,
the state real estate commissioner shall require that all promotional material
and contracts for the sale of lots in subdivisions approved by the commissioner
adequately display the director of water resources' report or the developer's
brief summary of the report as approved by the commissioner on the proposed
water supply for the subdivision.
G.The commissioner may
require the subdivider to supplement the notice of intention to subdivide lands
and may require the filing of periodic reports to update the information
contained in the original notice of intention to subdivide lands.
H.The commissioner may
authorize the subdivider to file as the notice of intention to subdivide lands,
in lieu of some or all of the requirements of subsection A of this section, a
copy of the statement of record filed with respect to the subdivision pursuant
to the federal interstate land sales full disclosure act if the statement
complies with the requirements of the act and the regulations pertinent to the
act.
I.Neither a real estate
sales contract, conveyance, lease, assignment or other instrument to transfer
any interest in subdivided land nor any covenant or restriction affecting real
property shall contain any provision limiting the right of any party to appear
or testify in support of or opposition to zoning changes, building permits or
any other official acts affecting real property before a governmental body or
official considering zoning changes, building permits or any other official
acts affecting real property, whether the property is located within or outside
of the boundaries of the subdivision.All contractual provisions
that conflict with this subsection are declared to be contrary to public
policy. Nothing contained in this subsection shall prohibit private
restrictions on the use of any real property.
J.Before offering
subdivided lands for lease or sale, the subdivider who makes any promises
through any form of advertising media that the subdivided lands will be
exclusively a retirement community or one that is limited to the residency of
adults or senior citizens shall include the promises in the deed restrictions
affecting any interest in real property within the subdivided lands.
K.Except as otherwise
provided in this section, a subdivider shall not be required to disclose items
that are over one mile from the subdivision boundaries. The existence of
foreign nations or tribal lands shall also be disclosed if located within the onemile onemile radius of the subdivision
boundaries. END_STATUTE

