



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: G&F; law enforcement; omnibus







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2038









Introduced by
Representative
  Borrelli





AN ACT

amending sections
5331, 17314 and 17315, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to the Arizona game and fish department.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-331, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-331.Personal flotation devices; exceptions
A.All watercraft, except including
sailboards and standup
paddleboards, shall carry United States coast guard approved
personal flotation devices of the type and category prescribed by regulations
of the commission.There shall be one such device in good and
serviceable condition for each person on board and so placed as to be readily
accessible for immediate use.
B.Any person who is being towed behind a watercraft shall wear a buoyant belt or wearable
personal flotation device while being towed except for a
performer who is engaged
in a professional exhibition.
C.A child who
is twelve years of age or under and who is on board a watercraft shall wear a correctly sized United States
coast guard approved type I, II or III
wearable personal
flotation device whenever the watercraft is underway.
D.The
provisions of Subsection C shall
of this section does not
apply to small passenger vessels that are not for hire on navigable waters,
that maintain a coast guard certificate of inspection and that are being
operated by United States coast guard licensed pilots within a distance of onefourth
mile from the nearest shore as a means of transporting passengers and when the
duration of time the vessel is underway on the water does not exceed ten
minutes. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 17-314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-314.Civil liability for illegally taking, wounding, killing,
possessing or feeding wildlife; recovery of damages
A.The commission or any officer charged with
enforcement of the laws relating to game and fish, if so directed by the commission, may bring a
civil action in the name of the
this state against any
person unlawfully taking, wounding or killing, or unlawfully in possession of,
any of the following wildlife, or part thereof, or any person convicted of unlawfully feeding wildlife
pursuant to section 132927 that results in the lethal removal of any of
the following wildlife as directed by the department, and seek to
recover the following minimum sums as damage:
1.For each turkey or javelina $500.00
2.For each bear, mountain lion, pronghorn (antelope)
or deer, other than
trophy $1,500.00
3.For each elk or eagle, other than trophy or
endangered species $2,500.00
4.For each predatory, fur-bearing or nongame animal $
250.00
5.For each small game or aquatic wildlife animal $
50.00
6.For each trophy or endangered species animal $8,000.00
B.No A verdict or judgment recovered by the this
state in such an action shall not be for less than the sum fixed in this section. The
minimum sum that the commission may seek to recover as damages from a person
pursuant to this section may be doubled for a second verdict or judgment and
tripled for a third verdict or judgment.The action for damages may be joined with an
action for possession, and recovery had for the
possession as well as the damages.
C.The pendency or determination of an action for
damages or payment of a judgment, or the pendency or determination of a
criminal prosecution for the same taking, wounding, killing or possession, is
not a bar to the other, nor does either affect the right of seizure under any
other provision of the laws relating to game and fish.
D.All monies recovered pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the wildlife theft prevention fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 17-315, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-315.Wildlife theft prevention fund; authorized expenditures;
exemption
A.A
The wildlife theft
prevention fund is established consisting of:
1.Monies received from damage assessments pursuant
to section 17314.
2.Money received from donations to the fund.
3.Monies appropriated by the legislature for the
purposes provided in this article.
4.Monies received as fines, forfeitures and
penalties collected for violations of this title.
B. Monies in the wildlife theft prevention fund
shall be expended only for the following purposes:
1.The financing of reward payments to persons,
other than peace officers, game and fish department personnel and members of
their immediate families, who are responsible
for information leading to the arrest of any person for unlawfully taking,
wounding or killing, possessing, transporting or selling wildlife and attendant acts of
vandalism.The commission shall establish the schedule of rewards to
be paid for information received,
and payment shall be made from monies available for this purpose.
2.The financing of a statewide telephone reporting
system under the name of "operation game thief", which shall be
established by the director under the guidance of the commission.
3.The promotion of the public recognition and
awareness of the wildlife theft prevention program.
4.Investigations of the unlawful commercial taking, possession or use of wildlife.
5.Investigations
of fraud related to licenses, permits, tags or stamps.
C.The wildlife theft prevention fund shall be
expended in conformity with the laws governing state financial operations.Balances
remaining at the end of the fiscal year are exempt from the provisions of
section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE

