



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; vision screening program







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2065









Introduced by
Representative
  Lawrence





AN ACT

AMENDING sections
36-899, 36-899.01, 36-899.02, 36-899.03 and 36-899.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to child hearing and vision services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
A.The chapter heading of title 36, chapter 7.2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is changed from "CHILD HEARING PROGRAMS" to
"CHILD HEARING AND VISION PROGRAMS".
B.The article heading of title 36, chapter 7.2,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is changed from "PROGRAM OF HEARING
EVALUATION SERVICES" to "PROGRAM OF HEARING EVALUATION AND VISION
SCREENING EVALUATION SERVICES".
Sec.2.Section 36-899, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-899.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Department" means the department of
health services.
2."Director" means the director of the
department of health services.
3."Hearing evaluation services" means services
which that include the identification, testing, and evaluation of a child's hearing and the initiation of follow-up services, as defined in the prescribed by rules and regulations of adopted by the department, as provided by pursuant to section 36-899.03.
4."Hearing screening evaluation" means
the evaluation of the ability to hear certain frequencies at a consistent
loudness.
5."Private education program" means all
programs of private education offering courses of study for grades, children
in kindergarten through the
twelfth grade of high school programs and any of grades one through twelve.
6."Public education program" means all
kindergarten, primary and secondary programs of education within the public
school system, including but not beyond the twelfth grade of common or high
school.
7."Vision
screening evaluation services" means services that include the evaluation
of the ability to see clearly without corrective lenses or surgery using a
Snellen eye chart. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-899.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-899.01.Program for all schoolchildren; administration
A.A program of hearing evaluation and vision screening evaluation
services is established by the department.Such These
services shall be administered to all children as early as
possible, but in no event not later than the first year of attendance in
any public or private education program, or residential facility for children
with disabilities, and annually thereafter
as circumstances permit allow until the child has
attained the age of sixteen
years of age or is no
longer enrolled in a public or private education program.
B.The program of hearing evaluation and vision screening evaluation
services for children in a public education program shall be administered by
the department of health services with
the aid of the department of education. The entity conducting the evaluation shall bear the cost of the vision
screening evaluation services. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 36-899.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-899.02.Powers of the department; limitations
A.The department may, in administering the program of hearing evaluation and vision screening evaluation
services, may:
1.Provide consulting services, and
establish or supplement hearing evaluation services and vision screening evaluation services in
local health departments, public or private education programs or other
community agencies.
2.Provide for the training of personnel to
administer hearing screening evaluations
and vision screening evaluations.
3.Delegate powers and duties to other state
agencies, county and local health departments, county and local boards of
education or boards of trustees of private education programs or other
community agencies to develop and maintain periodic hearing evaluation services and vision screening evaluation services.
4.Provide services by contractual arrangement for
the development and maintenance of periodic hearing evaluation services and vision screening evaluation services.
5.Accept reports of hearing evaluation and vision screening evaluation
from qualified medical or other professional specialists who are employed by parents or guardians for
hearing evaluation and vision screening
evaluation when such
these reports are
submitted to the department.
B.The department shall not replace any qualified
existing service. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 36-899.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-899.03.Rules
The director shall develop
adopt rules and regulations governing
standards, procedures, techniques, data
management and criteria for conducting and administering hearing
evaluation services and vision
screening evaluation services. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 36-899.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-899.04.Right of parent or guardian to refuse test
No A child shall be is not required to submit to any test required by this
chapter if a parent or guardian of the child objects and submits a statement of
such objection to the
agency administering such the hearing evaluation services or vision screening evaluation services.
END_STATUTE

