



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: liquor purchases; other state
  identification







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2031









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli: Boyer, Fann, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
4241, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to liquor prohibitions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 4-241, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-241.Selling or giving liquor to underage person; illegally
obtaining liquor by underage person; violation; classification; definitions
A.If a licensee, an employee of the licensee or any
other person questions or has reason to question that the person ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to
procure the serving or delivery of spirituous liquor or entering a portion of a
licensed premises when the primary use is the sale or service of spirituous
liquor is under the legal drinking age, the licensee, employee of the licensee
or other person shall do all of the following:
1.Demand identification from the person.
2.Examine the identification to determine that the
identification reasonably appears to be a valid, unaltered identification that
has not been defaced.
3.Examine the photograph in the identification and
determine that the person reasonably appears to be the same person in the identification.
4.Determine that the date of birth in the
identification indicates the person is not under the legal drinking age.
B.A licensee or an employee of the licensee who
follows the procedures prescribed in subsection A of this section and who
records and retains a record of the person's identification on this particular
visit is not in violation of subsection J of this section or section 4244,
paragraph 9 or 22. This defense applies to actions of the licensee and all
employees of the licensee after the procedure has been employed during the
particular visit to the licensed premises by the person. A licensee or an
employee of the licensee is not required to demand and examine identification
of a person pursuant to subsection A of this section if, during this visit to
the licensed premises by the person, the licensee or any employee of the
licensee has previously followed the procedure prescribed in subsection A of
this section.
C.Proof that the licensee or employee followed the
entire procedure prescribed in subsection A of this section but did not record
and retain a record as prescribed in subsection B of this section is an
affirmative defense to a criminal charge under subsection J of this section or
under section 4244, paragraph 9 or 22 or a disciplinary action under
section 4210 for a violation of subsection J of this section or section
4244, paragraph 9 or 22. This defense applies to actions of the
licensee and all employees of the licensee after the procedure has been
employed during the particular visit to the licensed premises by the person.
D.A licensee or an employee who has not recorded
and retained a record of the identification prescribed by subsection B of this
section is presumed not to have followed any of the elements prescribed in
subsection A of this section.
E.For the purposes of section 4244,
paragraph 22, a licensee or an employee who has not recorded and retained a
record of the identification prescribed by subsection B of this section is
presumed to know that the person entering or attempting to enter a portion of a
licensed premises when the primary use is the sale or service of spirituous
liquor is under the legal drinking age.
F.It is a defense to a violation of subsection A of
this section if the person ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving or delivery of
spirituous liquor or to enter a portion of a licensed premises when the primary
use is the sale or service of spirituous liquor is not under the legal drinking
age.
G.A person penalized for a violation of subsection
J of this section or section 4244, paragraph 22 shall not be
additionally penalized for a violation of subsection A of this section relating
to the same event.
H.The defenses provided in this section do not
apply to a licensee or an employee who has actual knowledge that the person
exhibiting the identification is under the legal drinking age.
I.Any of the following types of records are
acceptable forms for recording the person's identification:
1.A writing containing the type of identification,
the date of issuance of the identification, the name on the identification, the
date of birth on the identification and the signature of the person.
2.An electronic file or printed document produced
by a device that reads the person's age from the identification.
3.A dated and signed photocopy of the
identification.
4.A photograph of the identification.
5.A digital copy of the identification.
J.An off-sale retail licensee or employee of an
off-sale retail licensee shall require an instrument of identification from any
customer who appears to be under twenty-seven years of age and who is using a
drivethrough or other physical feature of the licensed premises that
allows a customer to purchase spirituous liquor without leaving the customer's
vehicle.
K.The following written instruments are the only
acceptable types of identification:
1. An unexpired driver license issued by any this
state, the District of
Columbia, any territory of the United States or Canada if the license includes
a picture of the licensee and the person's date of birth. A
driver license issued to a person who is under twenty-one years of age is no
longer an acceptable type of identification under this paragraph thirty days
after the person turns twenty-one years of age.
2.An
unexpired driver license issued by any other state, the District of Columbia,
any territory of the United States or Canada if the license includes a picture
of the person and the person's date of birth.
2.3.An unexpired
nonoperating identification license issued pursuant to section 283165 or an equivalent form of identification license
issued by any state, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United
States or Canada if the license includes a picture of the person and the
person's date of birth. An unexpired nonoperating license issued
to a person who is under twenty-one years of age is no longer an acceptable
type of identification under this paragraph thirty days after the person turns
twenty-one years of age.
4.A form of
identification license issued by any other state, the District of Columbia, any
territory of the United States or Canada if the license is substantially
equivalent to a nonoperating identification license issued pursuant to section
283165 and includes a picture of the person and the person's date of
birth.
3.5.An unexpired
armed forces identification card that includes the person's picture and date of
birth.
4.6.A valid unexpired
passport or a valid unexpired resident alien card that contains a photograph of
the person and the person's date of birth.
L.A person who is under the legal drinking age and
who misrepresents the person's age to any person by means of a written
instrument of identification with the intent to induce a person to sell, serve,
give or furnish spirituous liquor contrary to law is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor.
M.A person who is under the legal drinking age and
who solicits another person to purchase, sell, give, serve or furnish
spirituous liquor contrary to law is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
N.A person who is under the legal drinking age and
who uses a fraudulent or false written instrument of identification or
identification of another person or uses a valid license or identification of
another person to gain access to a licensed establishment is guilty of a class
1 misdemeanor.
O.A person who uses a driver or nonoperating
identification license in violation of subsection L or N of this section is
subject to suspension of the driver or nonoperating identification license as
provided in section 283309.A person who does not have a
valid driver or nonoperating identification license and who uses a driver or
nonoperating identification license of another in violation of subsection C or
E of this section has the person's right to apply for a driver or nonoperating
identification license suspended as provided by section 283309.
P.A person who knowingly influences the sale,
giving or serving of spirituous liquor to a person under the legal drinking age
by misrepresenting the age of such person or who orders, requests, receives or
procures spirituous liquor from any licensee, employee or other person with the
intent of selling, giving or serving it to a person under the legal drinking
age is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A licensee or employee of a licensee
who has actual knowledge that a person is under the legal drinking age and who
admits the person into any portion of the licensed premises in violation of
section 4244, paragraph 22 is in violation of this
subsection.In addition to other penalties provided by law, a judge
may suspend a driver license issued to or the driving privilege of a person for
not more than thirty days for a first conviction and not more than six months
for a second or subsequent conviction under this subsection.
Q.A person who is of legal drinking age and who is
an occupant of unlicensed premises is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor if both
of the following apply:
1.The person knowingly allows a gathering on such
unlicensed premises of two or more persons who are under the legal drinking age
and who are neither:
(a)Members of the immediate family of such person.
(b)Permanently residing with the person.
2.The person knows or should know that one or more
of the persons under the legal drinking age is in possession of or consuming
spirituous liquor on the unlicensed premises.
R.For the purposes of subsection Q of this section,
"occupant" means a person who has legal possession or the legal right
to exclude others from the unlicensed premises.
S.A peace officer shall forward or electronically
transfer to the director of the department of transportation the affidavit
required by section 283310 if the peace officer has arrested a person
for the commission of an offense for which, on conviction, suspension of the
license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is required by section 283309,
subsection A, B or D, or if the peace officer has confiscated a false
identification document used by the person to gain access to licensed premises.
T.A person who acts under a program of testing
compliance with this title that is approved by the director is not in violation
of section 4244.
U.Law enforcement agencies may use persons who are
under the legal drinking age to test compliance with this section and section 4244,
paragraph 9 by a licensee if the law enforcement agency has reasonable
suspicion that the licensee is violating this section or section 4244,
paragraph 9. A person who is under the legal drinking age and who purchases or
attempts to purchase spirituous liquor under the direction of a law enforcement
agency pursuant to this subsection is immune from prosecution for that purchase
or attempted purchase.Law enforcement agencies may use a person
under the legal drinking age pursuant to this subsection only if:
1.The person is at least fifteen but not more than
nineteen years of age.
2.The person is not employed on an incentive or
quota basis.
3.The person's appearance is that of a person who
is under the legal drinking age.
4.A photograph of the person is taken no more than
twelve hours before the purchase or attempted purchase. The photograph shall
accurately depict the person's appearance and attire. A licensee or an
employee of a licensee who is cited for selling spirituous liquor to a person
under the legal drinking age pursuant to this subsection shall be permitted to
inspect the photograph immediately after the citation is issued.The
person's appearance at any trial or administrative hearing that results from a
citation shall not be substantially different from the person's appearance at
the time the citation was issued.
5.The person places, receives and pays for the
person's order of spirituous liquor. An adult shall not accompany the person
onto the premises of the licensee.
6.The person does not consume any spirituous
liquor.
V.The department may adopt rules to carry out the
purposes of this section. END_STATUTE

