



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: statewide technology policy; acceptable
  use







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2046









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending the
Arizona Revised Statutes by adding title 18; relating to information
technology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.The Arizona Revised Statutes are
amended by adding Title 18, to read:
TITLE 18
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CHAPTER 1
ACCEPTABLE USE
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE18-101.Definitions
In this title, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Budget
unit" means a department, commission, board, institution or other agency
of this state that receives, spends or disburses state monies or that incurs
obligations of this state, including the Arizona board of regents but excluding
the universities under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, the
community college districts and the legislative and judicial branches.
2."Department"
means the department of administration.
3."Director"
means the director of the department.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE18-102.Statewide technology policy; access agreements;
notification
A.The
director shall establish a statewide technology policy for the acceptable use
of state information and state information system assets to reduce the risk to
state information and state information systems due to disclosure, modification
or disruption.
B.The
director shall establish an access agreement for all budget units, and each
budget unit shall require each user who has access to state information or
state information systems to enter into the access agreement before the user is
granted access to the state information or state information systems.
C.The
access agreement shall contain all of the following policies:
1.Safe
computing practices, including protocols regarding opening attachments or
links, password protections, desk and workstation security, unauthorized
personnel access, security weakness and violation reporting and access
identification.
2.Confidential
information protections, including marking, unencrypted data, storage and
electronic transmissions practices.
3.Prohibited
behaviors, including computer tampering, using unauthorized computing
equipment, using unauthorized software, unauthorized using of software or
services, introducing malware, disrupting systems, circumventing security
controls and using a false identity.
4.Inappropriate
or unlawful material.
5.Unauthorized
use of electronic messaging.
6.Personal
use of state information systems.
7.Violation
of intellectual property laws.
8.Unauthorized
access and release of confidential information.
9.Unauthorized
posting of state documents.
D.Each
budget unit shall notify each user who has been granted access to state
information or state information systems. The notice shall include the
following statements:
1.The user
acknowledges the user's understanding of the policy and other related
information security policies.
2.All state
information system assets remain the sole property of this state. Any data or
intellectual property created by the user remains the property of this state.
3.The
budget unit has the right to monitor all activities that occur on the state
information systems or to access any data residing on its systems or assets at
any time without further notice.
4.The
budget unit may block access to web content that the budget unit deems
inappropriate or filter e-mail.
5.The user
shall retain records pursuant to the budget unit's records retention policies.
6.The user
should have no expectation of privacy for any communication or data created,
stored, sent or received on state information systems and assets.
7.By using
state information systems, the user acknowledges that the user explicitly
consents to the monitoring of the use and right of the budget unit to
conduction monitoring.
E.The
director shall establish a virtual office access agreement for all budget units
that allow users to use computing equipment outside of the office to access
state information or state information systems. Each budget unit shall require
each user who uses computing equipment outside of the office to access state
information or state information systems to enter into the virtual office
access agreement before the user is granted use of computing equipment outside
of the office to access state information or state information
systems.The virtual office access agreement shall contain all of
the following policies:
1.The user
shall ensure that the computing equipment has been issued to the user for the
purpose of connecting to a state information system or that the computing
equipment is owned or under the control of the user and the user can ensure
that minimum physical and logical protections are in place.
2.The user
shall ensure that the computing equipment is physically protected from
unauthorized use and removal and that the use is limited to the authorized
user.
3.The user
shall ensure that the computing equipment has all of the following logical security
controls:
(a)Identification and
authentication controls.
(b)Malicious code protection.
(c)Personal firewalls. 
(d)Full
device encryption.
(e)Installed
securityrelevant software and firmware updates.
F.Each
budget unit shall establish a portable electronic device access agreement if
the budget unit allows users to use portable electronic devices to access state
information or state information systems. The budget unit shall require each
user who uses a portable electronic device to access state information or state
information systems to enter into the portable electronic device agreement
before the user is granted access to state information or state information
systems. END_STATUTE

