







REFERENCE TITLE: pharmacists; licensure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2109









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer





AN ACT

Amending section
321922, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to pharmacists.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1922, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1922.Qualifications of applicant; reciprocity; preliminary
equivalency examination; honorary certificate; fee
A.An applicant for licensure as a pharmacist shall:
1.Be of good moral character.
2.Be a graduate of a school or college of pharmacy
or department of pharmacy of a university recognized by the board or the
accreditation council for pharmacy education, or qualify under subsection D of
this section.
3.Have successfully completed, as substantiated by
proper affidavits, a program of practical experience under the direct
supervision of a licensed pharmacist who
is approved by the board.
4.Pass the pharmacist licensure examination and
jurisprudence examination approved by the board.An applicant who
fails an examination three times shall petition the board for permission before
retaking the examination. The board shall evaluate the petition and determine
whether to require additional educational training before approving each
additional retake of the examination.
5.Pay an application fee prescribed by the board of
not more than five hundred dollars. An applicant for reciprocal licensure
shall pay the fee prescribed in section 321924, subsection D.
B.The board may license as a pharmacist, without a
pharmacist licensure examination, a person who is licensed as a pharmacist by a
pharmacist licensure examination in some other jurisdiction if that person:
1.Produces satisfactory evidence to the board of
having had the required secondary and professional education and training.
2.Is possessed of good morals as demanded of
applicants for licensure and relicensure under this chapter.
3.Presents proof to the board's satisfaction of licensure that the person is licensed by a pharmacist
licensure examination equivalent to the pharmacist licensure examination
required by the board and that the applicant
has held person holds
the license in good standing for at least
one year. If the applicant was examined after June 1, 1979, the
applicant must present proof to the board's satisfaction of having passed the
national association of boards of pharmacy licensure examination or the north
American pharmacist licensure examination.
4.Presents proof to the board's satisfaction that
any other license granted to the applicant by any other jurisdiction has not
been suspended, revoked or otherwise restricted for any reason except
nonrenewal or for failure to obtain the required continuing education credits
in any jurisdiction where the applicant is currently licensed but not engaged
in the practice of pharmacy.
5.Passes a board
approved board-approved
jurisprudence examination.
C.Subsection B of this section applies only if the
jurisdiction in which the person is licensed grants, under like conditions,
reciprocal licensure as a pharmacist to a pharmacist who is licensed by examination in this state
and the applicant has held person holds a license in good
standing for at least one year
issued by an active member board of the national association of boards of
pharmacy.
D.If an applicant for licensure is a graduate of a
pharmacy degree program at a school or college of pharmacy that was not
recognized by the board at the time of the person's graduation, the applicant
shall pass a preliminary equivalency examination approved by the board in order
to qualify to take the examinations prescribed in subsection A of this section.
E.The preliminary equivalency examination required
pursuant to subsection D of this section shall cover proficiency in English and
academic areas the board deems essential to a satisfactory pharmacy curriculum.
F.An applicant who fails the preliminary
equivalency examination required pursuant to subsection D of this section shall
not retake the preliminary equivalency examination until the applicant files
written proof with the board that the applicant has completed additional
remedial academic work previously approved by the board to correct deficiencies
in the applicant's education that were indicated by the results of the
applicant's last preliminary equivalency examination.
G.A pharmacist who has been licensed in this state
for at least fifty years shall be granted an honorary certificate of licensure
by the board without the payment of the usual renewal fee, but that certificate
of licensure does not confer an exemption from any other requirement of this
chapter.
H.The board may require a pharmacist who has not
been actively engaged in the practice of pharmacy for over one year to serve
not more than four hundred hours in an internship training program approved by
the board or its designee before the pharmacist may resume the active practice
of pharmacy.
I.An applicant must complete the application
process within twelve months after submitting the application. END_STATUTE

