







REFERENCE TITLE: minimum wage; nonmonetary compensation.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2148









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

Repealing section
23362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by laws 1997, chapter 51,
section 1; Amending section 23362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by
proposition 202, section 2, election of november 7, 2006; amending Title 23,
chapter 2, article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 23-366;
relating to the minimum wage.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Subject to the requirements of article IV, part 1,
section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by Laws 1997, chapter 51, section 1, is repealed.
Sec.2.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as added by Proposition 202, section 2, election of November
7, 2006, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-362.Definitions
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
G.1."Commission"
means the industrial commission of Arizona, any successor agency, or such any
other agency as
that the governor shall designate designates to implement this article.
D.2."Employ"
includes to suffer or permit to work; whether a person is an independent contractor
or an employee shall be determined according to the standards of the federal
fair labor standards act, but the burden of proof shall be upon the party for
whom the work is performed to show independent contractor status by clear and
convincing evidence.
A.3."Employee"
means any person who is or was employed by an employer but does not include any
person who is employed by a parent or a sibling, or who is employed performing
babysitting services in the employer's home on a casual basis.
B.4."Employer"
includes any corporation, proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, association, political subdivision of the state,
individual or other entity acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an
employer in relation to an employee, but does not include the this
state of Arizona,
the United States, or
a small business.
F.5."Law
enforcement officer" means the attorney general, a city attorney, a county
attorney or a town attorney.
C.6."Small
business" means any corporation, proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, limited liability company, trust, or association that has less than
five hundred thousand dollars in gross annual revenue and that is exempt from
having to pay a minimum wage under section 206(a) of title 29 of the United
States Code.
E.7."Wage"
means:
(a)Monetary
compensation due to an employee by reason of employment, including an
employee's commissions, but not tips or gratuities.
(b)The reasonable cost, as
determined by the commission, to the employer of furnishing an employee with
board, lodging or other facilities that are customarily furnished by the
employer to the employer's employees, except thatWage does not include
the cost of board, lodging or other facilities to the extent that this cost is
excluded from a wage under a bona fide collective bargaining agreement that is
applicable to the employee. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 23, chapter 2, article 8, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 23-366, to read:
START_STATUTE23-366.Determination of reasonable cost of board, lodging or
other facilities
A.for the
purposes of evaluating nonmonetary compensation, the commission may determine
the fair value of board, lodging or other facilities for defined classes of
employees and in defined areas based on any of the following:
1.The
average cost to the employer or to groups of employers that are similarly
situated.
2.the Average
values to groups of employees.
3.Other
appropriate measures of fair value.
B.The
determinations made pursuant to subsection A of this section, if applicable and
pertinent, shall be used in lieu of the actual measure of cost in determining
the wage paid to any employee. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws 1997,
chapter 51, section 1 and repealed by this act, section 23362, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as added by Proposition 202, section 2, election of November
7, 2006, and amended by this act, and section 23366, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, are effective only on the affirmative vote of
at least threefourths of the members of each house of the legislature.

