







REFERENCE TITLE: lead acid battery sales; fees







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2132









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

amending section
44-1323, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the sale and disposal of
batteries.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1323, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1323.Sale of lead acid batteries; fee; notice
A.A lead acid battery seller shall accept from
customers at the point of transfer used lead acid batteries of the type and
quantity sold at that point of transfer and may accept additional
batteries.A seller shall not charge any fee to receive those
batteries, other than the fee authorized by subsection B or F of this section.A lead acid
battery seller shall post a written notice that is clearly visible in the public
sales area of the establishment and that contains the following language:
"It is unlawful to dispose of a motor vehicle battery or
other lead acid battery in a landfill or any unauthorized site.
Recycle all used batteries.
This seller is required by law to accept used lead acid
batteries.When any new lead acid battery is purchased, an
additional fee of not more than fifteen
dollars will be charged unless a used battery is returned for
refund within fortyfive days."
B.A lead
acid battery seller shall charge each person who purchases a new
lead acid battery shall be assessed
a fee of not per battery. Except as provided in
subsection F of this section, the fee may not be more than fifteen dollars per battery by the seller the deposit fee that a wholesale seller
charges to the seller for the new lead acid battery.A
seller shall refund the fee to any person who presents a used lead acid battery
to the seller with a receipt for the purchase of a new battery from that seller
within the fortyfive day period immediately following the
purchase.A seller may keep any lead acid battery fee monies that
are not properly claimed within fortyfive days after the date of sale.
C.All lead acid batteries sold after July 1, 1991
shall bear a universally accepted recycling symbol.
D.An advertisement or other printed promotional
material related to the sale of lead acid batteries shall contain the following
notice in bold print:
"A fee is imposed on the purchase of each new lead acid
battery unless a used battery is returned where applicable."
E.This section does not apply to a person whose
sales of batteries are not in the ordinary course of business.
F.A wholesale seller of lead acid batteries who
sells batteries to this state, to a political subdivision of this state or to a
private entity that does not resell the batteries:
1.Is
subject to this article.
2.May
charge a fee as prescribed by subsection B of this section except that the fee
may not be more than the deposit fee that the wholesale seller charges to other
sellers for a new lead acid battery. END_STATUTE

