







REFERENCE TITLE: DHS; state food standards







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2180









Introduced by
Representatives
  Gabaldn, Andrade, Cardenas, Espinoza, Fernandez, Hale, Larkin, Saldate,
  Senator Dalessandro: Representatives Bolding, Friese, Mendez, Plumlee





AN ACT

Amending title
36, chapter 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 2; relating to food
standards.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
36, chapter 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 2, to
read:
ARTICLE
2.STATE FOOD STANDARDS
START_STATUTE36-931.Food standards task force; development of state food
standards; requirements; task force termination
A.Within three months after the effective date of this
section, the director of the department of health services shall establish a
food standards task force that consists of the following members:
1.One representative from each state agency that
purchases, prepares, serves or sells food on state property.
2.At least one dietitian or nutritionist, one
pediatrician and one dentist.
3.Any other person the director would like to appoint.
B.The food standards task force shall develop state food
standards in conjunction with the director of the department of health
services.Not later than twelve months after the effective date of
this section, the department of health services, based on the recommendations
of the task force, shall finalize the state food standards for foods that are
served and sold by state agencies and institutions or on state property and
shall communicate the standards to the director of each state agency or
institution that purchases, prepares, serves or sells food and beverage.
C.The state food standards developed pursuant to this
section shall:
1.Be consistent with or exceed the nutrition
recommendations in the most recent edition of the federal dietary guidelines
for Americans developed by the United states department of agriculture and the
United States department of health and human services.
2.Support and encourage breastfeeding and ensure that
employees are provided with appropriate space and adequate time for
breastfeeding or expressing milk for their infants.
3.Include recommendations for the use of locally grown
food products to the greatest extent possible.
D.In developing the state food standards, the food
standards task force and the department shall consider all of the following:
1.Recommendations for nutrition standards for foods,
beverages and meals made by authoritative scientific organizations.
2.Both positive and negative contributions of nutrients,
ingredients and foods to the diets of adults and children, including calories
or portion size, saturated fat, trans fat, sodium, added sugars and the
presence of fruits, vegetables, whole grains and nutrients of concern in
Americans' diets.
3.Adaptations of the standards for different venues,
including child care facilities, correctional facilities, government meetings
or other settings with unique populations or circumstances.
E.The department shall review and update The state food
standards as necessary but at least every five years to ensure that the
standards remain current and science-based.
F.The food standards task force established by this
section ends on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section 41-3103. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-932.State food standards; applicability
A.The state food standards developed pursuant to section
36931 apply to all foods and beverages that are purchased, prepared,
served and sold by all state agencies and institutions and that are sold or
served on state property, including:
1.All state government office buildings.
2.Meetings and conferences that are hosted or funded by
a state agency.
3.Roadside rest stops that are managed or owned by this
state.
4.State parks and recreation centers.
5.Child care facilities that are managed or subsidized
by this state or that are located on state property.
6.State-supported hospitals.
7.Correctional facilities.
8.State institutions of higher education.
9.Homeless shelters that are operated by this state.
10.Senior centers that are operated by this state.
B.All purchases that are made by any department or
division or any officer or agency on behalf of this state shall be made in
accordance with this article. All contracts that are entered into by a state
agency with a food service, catering or vending company or other food provider
shall ensure that the food supplied will comply with the state food standards
adopted pursuant to this article. All existing contracts that do not meet the
state food standards shall be revised or terminated at the next renewal stage
of the contract. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-933.Menu labeling; standard menu items; state property
If a food, beverage or combination meal is a standard menu item that
is offered for sale on state property or by a state agency or institution, the
restaurant or food service establishment that is not part of a chain with
twenty or more outlets nationally shall:
1.In a nutrient content disclosure statement that is
adjacent to the name of the standard menu item and clearly associated with the
standard menu item, on the menu, menu board, drive-through menu board or food
display tag listing the item for sale, list the number of calories contained in
the standard menu item as it is usually prepared and offered for sale.
2.Provide a succinct statement concerning suggested
daily caloric intake that is posted prominently on the menu or menu board,
designed to enable the public to understand, in the context of a total daily
diet, the significance of the caloric information provided on the menu and that
reads: "an average adult should consume no more than two thousand calories
a day".
3.Make available in writing, at the point of ordering in
the restaurant or food service establishment, the disclosure of saturated fat,
trans fat, sodium and fiber information per menu item as it is usually offered
for sale. The restaurant or food service establishment shall include a
prominent, clear and conspicuous statement regarding the availability of this
information on the menu or menu board.
4.In the case of food sold at a salad bar, buffet line,
cafeteria line or similar selfservice arrangement and for selfservice
beverages or food that is on display and visible to customers, place adjacent
to each food offered a sign that lists calories per displayed food item or per
serving, as offered for sale.
5.For menu items that come in different flavors,
varieties or combinations but that are listed as a single menu item, such as
soft drinks, ice cream, pizza, doughnuts or children's combination meals, list
the median value for calories for all flavors, varieties or combinations on
menus and menu boards if the calorie values for all flavors, varieties or
combinations are within twenty percent of the median.If the
calories or other nutrient values are not within twenty percent of the median,
the range for all the flavors, varieties or combinations of that menu item
shall be listed from the lowest to the highest value.If a menu item
that comes in different varieties is on display with a name placard or similar
signage, the calories per item as offered for sale shall be listed on a placard
along with the name. If a menu item is not on display, nutrition information
for each individual flavor or variety or each individual menu item that can be
chosen as part of a combination meal shall be provided by means of an in-store
brochure or booklet or another device that is readily available to customers at
the point of ordering.Signage shall alert customers to the
availability of this information. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-934.Program termination
The program established by this article ends on July 1, 2026
pursuant to section 41-3102. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act may be cited as the
"Healthy Arizona Act of 2016".

