







REFERENCE TITLE: paid sick and safe time.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2177









Introduced by
Representatives
  Andrade, Benally, Cardenas, Espinoza, Gabaldn, Hale, Larkin, Mach, Mendez,
  Saldate, Steele, Velasquez, Senator Quezada: Representatives Alston, Bolding,
  Clark, Fernandez, Friese, Gonzales, McCune Davis, Rios





AN ACT

amending title
23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 8.1; relating to
employment practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 8.1, to read:
ARTICLE 8.1.PAID SICK AND SAFE TIME LEAVE
START_STATUTE23-371.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Commission"
means the industrial commission of Arizona.
2."Domestic
violence" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133601.
3."Employee"
means any person who is or was employed by an employer but does not include any
person who is employed by a parent or a sibling or who is employed performing
babysitting services in the employer's home on a casual basis.
4."Employer"
includes any corporation, proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, association, political subdivision of this state,
individual or other entity acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an
employer in relation to an employee but does not include this state, the United
States or a small business.
5."Family
member" means:
(a)A biological, adopted or foster
child, a stepchild or legal ward, a child of a domestic partner or a child for
whom the employee serves as a temporary guardian.
(b)A biological, foster or adoptive
parent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner, a stepparent of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner or an individual who was a temporary guardian of the employee when the
employee was a minor.
(c)The spouse or domestic partner
of the employee.
(d)A grandparent or a spouse or
domestic partner of a grandparent.
(e)A biological, foster or adopted
sibling or a spouse or domestic partner of a biological, foster or adopted
sibling.
(f)A grandchild.
(g)Any other individual who is
related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the
equivalent of a family relationship.
6."Health
professional" has the same meaning prescribed in section 323201.
7."Paid
sick and safe time" means time that is provided by an employer to an
employee for the purposes described in section 23-373.
8."Retaliatory
personnel action" means the discharge, suspension or demotion by an
employer of an employee or any other adverse action that an employer takes
against an employee and includes any sanctions against a recipient of public
benefits.
9."Sexual
assault" means intentionally or knowingly engaging in sexual intercourse
or oral sexual contact with any person without consent of that person as
prohibited by section 13-1406.
10."Stalking" means a violation of
section 13-2923. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-372.Accrual of paid sick and safe time
A.An
employee accrues a minimum of one hour of paid sick and safe time for every
thirty hours worked. An employee may not accrue more than seventy-two hours of
paid sick and safe time in a calendar year, unless the employer selects a
higher limit.
B.An
employee who is exempt from overtime requirements under 29 United States Code
section 213(a)(1) is
assumed to work forty hours in each workweek for the purposes of paid sick and
safe time accrual unless the employee's normal workweek is fewer than forty
hours.If the employee's workweek is fewer than forty hours, paid
sick and safe time accrues based on the number of hours actually worked.
C.Paid sick
and safe time begins to accrue at the commencement of employment.
D.An
employee may use accrued paid sick and safe time beginning on the ninetieth
calendar day after commencement of employment. After the ninetieth calendar
day of employment, an employee may use paid sick and safe time as it is accrued.
E.Paid sick
and safe time is carried over to the following calendar year, except that an
employee may not use more than seventy-two hours of paid sick and safe time in
a calendar year.
F.If an
employer provides a paid leave that meets the accrual requirements of this
section and that may be used for the same purposes and under the same
conditions as prescribed in section 23373, the employer is not required
to provide additional paid sick and safe time.
G.This
section does not require financial or other reimbursement to an employee from
an employer for accrued paid sick and safe time on the employee's termination,
resignation, retirement or other separation from employment.
H.If an
employee is transferred to a separate division, entity or location but remains
employed by the same employer, the employee is entitled to use all unused paid
sick and safe time accrued while working at the prior division, entity or
location. If there is a separation from employment and the employee is rehired
within six months of separation by the same employer, previously accrued paid
sick and safe time that had not been used must be reinstated. The employee may
use accrued paid sick and safe time and accrue additional paid sick and safe
time at the commencement of the reemployment.
I.An
employer may lend paid sick and safe time to an employee in advance of accrual
of the time by the employee.
J.This
article does not:
1.Discourage
or prohibit an employer from the adoption or retention of a paid leave policy
that is more generous than the paid sick and safe time policy.
2.Diminish the obligation of an employer to
comply with any contract, collective bargaining agreement, employment benefit
plan or other agreement that provides more generous sick and safe time leave to
an employee than required in this article.
3.Diminish
the rights of public employees regarding paid sick and safe time or use of paid
sick and safe time as otherwise provided by law.
4.Preempt,
limit or otherwise affect the applicability of any other law, regulation,
requirement, policy or standard that provides for greater accrual or use by
employees of sick and safe time, whether paid or unpaid, or that extends other
protections to employees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-373.Use of paid sick and safe time
A.An
employer shall provide an employee paid sick and safe time for any of the
following:
1.An
employee's:
(a)Mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition.
(b)Need for medical diagnosis, care
or treatment of a mental or physical illness, injury or health condition.
(c)Need for preventive medical
care.
2.An
employee's need to care for a family member with a mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition:
(a)Who
needs medical diagnosis, care or treatment of a mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition.
(b)Who needs preventive medical
care.
3.Closure
of the employee's place of business by order of a public official due to a
public health emergency.
4.An
employee's need to care for a child whose school or place of care has been
closed by order of a public official due to a public health emergency.
5.An
employee's need to care for a family member if the health authorities having
jurisdiction or a health care provider determines that the family member's
presence in the community would jeopardize the health of others because of the
family member's exposure to a communicable disease, whether or not the family
member has actually contracted the communicable disease.
6.Absence
necessary due to domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking if the leave is
to do any of the following:
(a)Seek medical attention for the
employee or employee's family member to recover from physical or psychological
injury or disability that is caused by domestic violence, sexual assault or
stalking.
(b)Obtain services from a victim
services organization.
(c)Obtain psychological or other
counseling.
(d)Seek relocation due to the
domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
(e)Take legal action, including
preparing for or participating in any civil or criminal legal proceeding that
is related to or resulting from the domestic violence, sexual assault or
stalking.
B.The
employer shall provide Paid sick and safe time on the oral request of an
employee.If possible, the employee shall include in the request the
expected duration of the absence.
C.If the
use of paid sick and safe time is foreseeable, the employee shall do both of
the following:
1.Make a
good faith effort to provide notice of the need for the time to the employer in
advance of the use of the paid sick and safe time.
2.Make a
reasonable effort to schedule the use of paid sick and safe time in a manner
that does not unduly disrupt the operations of the employer.
D.Paid sick
and safe time is compensated at the same hourly rate and with the same
benefits, including health care benefits, as the employee normally earns during
hours worked, except that the hourly wage may not be less than that prescribed
in section 23-363.
E.For paid
sick and safe time of more than three consecutive days, an employer may require
reasonable documentation that the paid sick and safe time is for a purpose
prescribed by subsection A of this section. Reasonable documentation includes:
1.Documentation
that is signed by a health professional that indicates that sick time is
necessary.
2.A police
report that indicates that the employee was a victim of domestic violence,
sexual assault or stalking.
3.A court
order or a signed statement from a victim and witness advocate that affirms
that the employee is involved in legal action that is related to domestic
violence, sexual assault or stalking.
F.An
employer may not require that the documentation explain the nature of the
illness or the details of the violence. If an employer chooses to require
documentation for sick time and the employee does not have health insurance,
the employer is responsible for paying all of the out-of-pocket expenses the
employee incurs in obtaining the documentation. If the employee does have
health insurance, the employer is responsible for paying any costs the health
care provider charges to the employee for providing the specific documentation
that the employer requires.
G.An
employer may not require as a condition of providing paid sick and safe time
that the employee search for or find a replacement worker to cover the hours
during which the employee is on paid sick and safe time. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-374.Protection of rights; retaliation prohibition
A.It is
unlawful for an employer or any other person to interfere with, restrain or
deny the exercise of, or the attempt to exercise, any right that is provided
under this article.
B.An
employer may not take retaliatory personnel action or discriminate against an
employee because the employee has exercised rights that are provided under this
article. These rights include the right to:
1.Use paid
sick and safe time.
2.File a
complaint or inform any person about any employer's alleged violation of this
article.
3.Cooperate
with the commission in its investigations of alleged violations of this
article.
4.Inform
any person of potential rights under this article.
C.It is
unlawful for an employer to count paid sick and safe time taken as an absence
that may result in discipline, discharge, demotion, suspension or any other
adverse action.
D.The
protections of this section apply to any person that alleges violations of this
section in good faith, even if the allegations are in error.
E.A
rebuttable presumption of unlawful retaliation exists if an employer takes
adverse action against a person within ninety days after that person does any
of the following:
1.Files a
complaint with the commission or a court alleging a violation of this section.
2.Informs
any person about an employer's alleged violation of this section.
3.Cooperates
with the commission or other persons in the investigation or prosecution of any
alleged violation of this section.
4.Opposes
any policy, practice or act that is unlawful under this section.
5.Informs
any person of the person's rights under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-375.Notice and posting
A.An
Employer shall give notice as PROVIDED in this section that states all of the
following:
1.Employees
are entitled to paid sick and safe time, the amount of paid sick and safe time
and the terms of its use guaranteed under this article.
2.Retaliation
against employees who request or use paid sick and safe time is prohibited.
3.Each
employee may file a complaint or bring a civil action if the employer denies
paid sick and safe time or the employee is retaliated against for requesting or
taking paid sick and safe time.
B.An
Employer may comply with this section by supplying each employee with a notice
that contains in English and in any language that is the first language spoken
by at least five percent of the employer's workforce the information that is
required under subsection A of this section.
C.An
Employer may comply with this section by displaying a poster in a conspicuous
and accessible place in each establishment where employees are employed that
contains in English and in any language that is the first language spoken by at
least five percent of the employer's workforce the information that is required
under subsection A of this section.
D.The
commission shall create and make available to employers posters that contain
the information that is required under subsection A of this section for their
use in complying with this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-376.Employer records
A.An Employer shall retain records that document
hours worked by employees and paid sick and safe time taken by employees for a
period of at least five years and shall allow the commission access to these
records, with appropriate notice and at a mutually agreeable time, to monitor
compliance with the requirements of this Article.
B.If a
dispute arises about an employee's entitlement to paid sick and safe time under
this article, an employer is presumed to have violated this article, absent
clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, if the employer does either of
the following:
1.Fails to
maintain or retain adequate records that document hours worked by the employee
and paid sick and safe time taken by the employee.
2.Does not
allow the commission reasonable access to these records. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-377.Enforcement; civil penalty
A.The
commission shall implement and enforce this article and shall adopt rules for
these purposes.
B.An
employee or other person may report to the commission any suspected violation
of this Article. The commission shall keep confidential the name and other
identifying information of the employee or person that reports the violation,
except that the commission may disclose this information as authorized by the
employee or other person as necessary to enforce this article or for other
appropriate purposes.
C.A law
enforcement officer or any private party that is injured by a violation of this
article may maintain a civil action to enforce this article in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
D.Any
employer that violates the recordkeeping or posting requirements prescribed in
this article or other requirements that the commission establishes under this
section is subject to a civil penalty of at least two hundred fifty dollars for
a first violation and at least five hundred dollars for each subsequent or
wilful violation and may, if the commission or court determines appropriate, be
subject to special monitoring and inspections.
E.Any
employer that fails to provide paid sick and safe time as required under this
article shall pay the employee any wages owing for the paid sick and safe time,
including interest on the unpaid wages, and an additional amount equal to twice
the amount of the paid sick and safe time wages owed to the employee. Any
employer that retaliates against an employee or OTHER PERSON in violation of
this article shall pay the employee an amount set by the commission or a court
that is sufficient to compensate the employee and deter future violations but
at least one hundred fifty dollars for each day that the violation continued
until legal judgment was final. Both the commission and the courts may order
payment of any unpaid wages due under this section as paid sick and safe time,
other amounts and civil penalties and order any other appropriate legal or
equitable relief for violations of this article. Civil penalties shall be
retained by the agency that recovered them and used to finance activities to
enforce this article. A prevailing plaintiff is entitled to reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
F.A
civil action to enforce this article may be commenced not later than two years
after a violation last occurs, or three years in the case of a wilful
violation, and may encompass all violations that occurred as part of a
continuing course of employer conduct regardless of the date of occurrence. The
statute of limitations must be tolled during any investigation of an employer
by the commission or other law enforcement officer, but this investigation does
not bar a person from bringing a civil action under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-378.Confidentiality
A.An
employer may not require disclosure of details that relate to domestic
violence, sexual assault or stalking or the details of an employee's medical
condition as a condition of receiving paid sick and safe time leave.
B.An
employer may not disclose except to the affected employee or with the
permission of the affected employee health information or information that
relates to domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking about an employee or
employee's family member and this information shall be treated as confidential. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date; effect on existing collective bargaining
agreements
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016. If an
employer and employees have a collective bargaining agreement in effect on
January 1, 2017, this act applies to that employer and employees on the
termination of the collective bargaining agreement.

