







REFERENCE TITLE: private prison security officers;
  certification







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2175









Introduced by
Representatives
  Andrade, Alston, Benally, Cardenas, Espinoza, Gabaldn, Hale, Mendez,
  Plumlee, Saldate, Steele, Velasquez, Senator Quezada: Representatives
  Bolding, Clark, Fernandez, Friese, Gonzales, Larkin, McCune Davis, Otondo,
  Rios





AN ACT

amending sections
41-1609.01, 41-1682, 41-1822 and 41-1823, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
private prison security officers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1609.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1609.01.Adult incarceration contracts; criteria
A.On publication, any request for proposals shall
be provided to the joint legislative budget committee for its review.
B.To be considered for an award of a contract, the
proposer must demonstrate that it has:
1.The qualifications, operations and management
experience and experienced personnel necessary to carry out the terms of the
contract.
2.The ability to comply with applicable
correctional standards and any specific court order, if required.
3.A demonstrated history of successful operation
and management of other secure facilities.
C.The proposer of a contract for correctional
services must agree that this state may cancel the contract at any time after
the first year of operation, without penalty to this state, on giving ninety
days' written notice.
D.A contract may provide for annual contract price
or cost adjustments, except that any adjustments may be made only once each
year effective on the anniversary of the effective date of the
contract.If any adjustment is made pursuant to the terms of the
contract, it shall be applied to the total payments made to the contractor for
the previous contract year and shall not exceed the per cent percent of change in the average consumer price index as
published by the United States department of labor, bureau of labor statistics
between that figure for the latest calendar year and the next previous calendar
year.
E.Any price or cost adjustments to a contract
different than those authorized in subsection D of this section may be made
only if the legislature specifically authorizes the adjustments and
appropriates monies for that purpose, if required.
F.An award of a contract shall not be made unless
an acceptable proposal is received pursuant to any request for
proposals.For the purposes of this subsection, "acceptable
proposal" means a proposal that substantially meets all of the
requirements or conditions set forth in this section and that meets all of the
requirements in the request for proposals.
G.A proposal shall not be accepted unless the
proposal offers cost savings to this state.
H.A proposal shall not be accepted unless the
proposal offers a level and quality of services that are at least functionally
equal to those that would be provided by this state.
I.Notwithstanding section 412546, a contract
to provide correctional services as described in this section may be for an
initial period of not more than ten years.
J.The initial contract may include an option to
renew for two subsequent renewal periods of not more than five years each.
K.A contract for correctional services described in
this section shall not be entered into unless the following requirements are
met:
1.The contractor provides audited financial
statements for the previous five years, or for each of the years the contractor
has been in operation, if fewer than five years, and provides other financial
information as requested.
2.The contractor provides an adequate plan of
insurance, specifically including coverage or insurance for civil rights claims
and liabilities as approved by the risk management division of the department
of administration.
3.The contractor agrees to be liable for the costs
of any emergency, public safety or security services provided to the contractor
by the state or any political subdivision of the state and to reimburse the
state or any political subdivision of the state for the cost of any such
services.
4.The
contractor only uses security officers who are certified pursuant to section
41-1822.
L.The sovereign immunity of this state does not
apply to the contractor.Neither the contractor nor the insurer of
the contractor may plead the defense of sovereign immunity in any action arising
out of the performance of the contract.
M.A contract for correctional services shall not
authorize, allow or imply a delegation of authority or responsibility to a
prison contractor for any of the following:
1.Developing and implementing procedures for
calculating inmate release dates.
2.Developing and implementing procedures for
calculating and awarding sentence credits.
3.Approving the type of work inmates may perform
and the wages or sentence credits that may be given to inmates engaging in the
work.
4.Granting, denying or revoking sentence credits,
placing an inmate under less restrictive custody or more restrictive custody or
taking any disciplinary actions. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-1682, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1682.Private prisons; prohibitions; liability for services;
financial responsibility; security officer qualifications
A.No private prison may operate in this state
unless the private contractor complies with this section.
B.A private prison shall provide the department of
administration with financial responsibility to cover this state's potential
liability in the amount of ten million dollars.The monies shall be
used by the state if the state is held liable for civil damages resulting from
the escape of a prisoner from the private prison.The private prison
may file proof of financial responsibility by filing one of the following:
1.Proof that ten million dollars is deposited in
the private prison escapee fund established by section 411830.31.
2.An insurance policy that is in a form approved by
the department of administration,
that provides civil liability and civil rights liability coverage in the amount
of ten million dollars and listing
that lists the state as
an insured.
3.A surety bond with the principal sum of ten
million dollars.
4.A certified financial statement that is not more
than ninety days old and that shows a net worth of more than fifteen million
dollars.Every ninety days the private prison shall submit a
certified financial statement to the department of administration signed under
oath by the chief financial officer of the prison.If the financial
statement indicates a net worth of less than fifteen million dollars, the
private prison shall comply with paragraphs
paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of
this subsection.
C.An insurance company or surety company duly
authorized to transact business in this state shall execute the insurance
policy or bond prescribed in subsection B of this section.
D.The insurance policy or surety bond shall
continue in effect until ninety days after the private prison is sold or
closed.Any monies deposited in the private prison escapee fund by the
private prison shall be refunded to the private prison within ninety days after
submission of evidence to the director of the department of administration that
the private prison is either sold or closed and there are no remaining
liabilities for which the state might be required to assume responsibility.
E.On receipt by the director of the department of
administration of notice to cancel an insurance policy or bond by an insurance
company or surety, the director of the
department of administration shall immediately notify the private
prison named on the
insurance policy or the surety bond of the effective date of cancellation of
the insurance policy or the surety bond.The private prison shall
furnish a like insurance policy or surety bond within thirty days after mailing
of the notice by the director of the
department of administration.Unless a replacement
insurance policy or surety bond is filed with the director of the department of administration, the right
of the private prisons prison to operate in this state
shall be suspended by operation of law on the date the bond is canceled.
F.If any of the monies required by subsection B,
paragraph 1 of this section are used to satisfy civil damage claims or civil
rights claims, the private prison shall reestablish the full amount of those
monies within thirty days after notification by the director of the department
of administration.
G.A security officer employed by a private prison
contractor shall be at least twentyone years of age, and
have no felony convictions and be
certified pursuant to section 41-1822. A security officer who is employed by a private prison
contractor shall not have any authority or jurisdiction outside the grounds of
a private prison facility. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-1822, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1822.Powers and duties of board; definition
A.With respect to peace officer training and certification,
the board shall:
1.Establish rules for the government and conduct of
the board, including meeting times and places and matters to be placed on the
agenda of each meeting.
2.Make recommendations, consistent with this
article, to the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the
president of the senate on all matters relating to law enforcement and public
safety.
3.Prescribe reasonable minimum qualifications for
officers to be appointed to enforce the laws of this state and the political
subdivisions of this state and certify officers in compliance with these
qualifications. Notwithstanding any other law, the qualifications shall require
United States citizenship, shall relate to physical, mental and moral fitness
and shall govern the recruitment, appointment and retention of all agents,
peace officers and police officers of every political subdivision of this
state. The board shall constantly review the qualifications established by this
section and may amend the qualifications at any time, subject to the
requirements of section 411823.
4.Prescribe minimum courses of training and minimum
standards for training facilities for law enforcement officers. Only this
state and political subdivisions of this state may conduct basic peace officer
training. Basic peace officer academies may admit individuals who are not
peace officer cadets only if a cadet meets the minimum qualifications
established by paragraph 3 of this subsection.Training shall
include:
(a)Courses in responding to and reporting all
criminal offenses that are motivated by race, color, religion, national origin,
sexual orientation, gender or disability.
(b)Training certified by the director of the
department of health services with assistance from a representative of the
board on the nature of unexplained infant death and the handling of cases
involving the unexplained death of an infant.
(c)Medical information on unexplained infant death
for first responders, including awareness and sensitivity in dealing with
families and child care providers, and the importance of forensically competent
death scene investigations.
(d)Information on the protocol of investigation in
cases of an unexplained infant death, including the importance of a consistent
policy of thorough death scene investigation.
(e)The use of the infant death investigation
checklist pursuant to section 363506.
(f)If an unexplained infant death occurs, the value
of timely communication between the medical examiner's office, the department
of health services and appropriate social service agencies that address the
issue of infant death and bereavement, to achieve a better understanding of
these deaths and to connect families to various community and public health
support systems to enhance recovery from grief.
5.Recommend curricula for advanced courses and
seminars in law enforcement and intelligence training in universities, colleges
and community colleges, in conjunction with the governing body of the
educational institution.
6.Make inquiries to determine whether this state or
political subdivisions of this state are adhering to the standards for
recruitment, appointment, retention and training established pursuant to this
article. The failure of this state or any political subdivision to adhere to
the standards shall be reported at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
board for action deemed appropriate by that body.
7.Employ an executive director and other staff as
are necessary to fulfill the powers and duties of the board in accordance with
the requirements of the law enforcement merit system council.
B.With respect to state department of corrections
correctional officers and private
prison security officers, the board shall:
1.Approve a basic training curriculum of at least
two hundred forty hours.
2.Establish uniform minimum
standards.These standards shall include high school graduation or
the equivalent and a physical examination as prescribed by the director of the
state department of corrections.
3.Establish uniform standards for background
investigations, including criminal histories under section 411750, of
all applicants before enrolling in the academy or working in a private prison facility.The
board may adopt special procedures for extended screening and investigations in
extraordinary cases to ensure suitability and adaptability to a career as a
correctional officer or private prison
security officer.
4.Issue a certificate of completion to any state
department of corrections correctional officer or private prison security officer who
satisfactorily complies with the minimum standards and completes the basic
training program.The board may issue a certificate of completion to
a state department of corrections correctional officer or private prison security officer who has
received comparable training in another state if the board determines that the
training was at least equivalent to that provided by the academy and if the
person complies with the minimum standards.
5.Establish continuing training requirements and
approve curricula.
C.With respect to peace officer misconduct, the
board may:
1.Receive complaints of peace officer misconduct
from any person, request law enforcement agencies to conduct investigations and
conduct independent investigations into whether an officer is in compliance
with the qualifications established pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of
this section.
2.Receive a complaint of peace officer misconduct
from the president or chief executive officer of a board recognized law
enforcement association that represents the interests of certified law
enforcement officers if the association believes that a law enforcement agency
refused to investigate or made findings that are contradictory to prima facie
evidence of a violation of the qualifications established pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section. If the board finds that the law
enforcement agency refused to investigate or made findings that contradicted
prima facie evidence of a violation of the qualifications established pursuant
to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section, the board shall conduct an
independent investigation to determine whether the officer is in compliance
with the qualifications established pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of
this section and provide a letter of the findings based on the investigation
conducted by the board to the president or chief executive officer of the board
recognized law enforcement association who made the complaint.
D.The board may:
1.Deny, suspend, revoke or cancel the certification
of an officer who is not in compliance with the qualifications established
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 and
subsection B of this section.
2.Provide training and related services to assist
state, tribal and local law enforcement agencies to better serve the public.
3.Enter into contracts to carry out its powers and
duties.
E.This section does not create a cause of action or
a right to bring an action, including an action based on discrimination due to
sexual orientation.
F.For the purposes of this section, "sexual
orientation" means consensual homosexuality or heterosexuality. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 41-1823, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1823.Adoption of minimum qualifications; certification
required; violation; classification
A.No minimum qualifications for law enforcement
officers adopted pursuant to this article shall be effective until six months
after they have been filed with the secretary of state pursuant to section 411031.
B.Except for agency heads duly elected as required
by the constitution and persons given the authority of a peace officer pursuant
to section 8205, 11572, 12253, 13916 or 22-131, no
person may exercise the authority or perform the duties of a peace officer
unless he the person is certified by the board pursuant
to section 411822, subsection A, paragraph3. 
C.A person
who violates subsection B of this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE

