







REFERENCE TITLE: planned communities; architectural
  designs; approval







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2172









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Thorpe





AN ACT

AMENDING section
33-1817, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to planned communities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1817, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1817.Design, architectural committees; review
Notwithstanding any provision in the community documents:
1.Membership on a design review committee, an
architectural committee or a committee that performs similar functions, however
denominated, for the planned community shall include at least one member of the
board of directors who shall serve as chairperson of the committee.
2.For new construction of the main residential
structure on a lot or for rebuilds of the main residential structure on a lot
and only in a planned community that has enacted design guidelines,
architectural guidelines or other similar rules, however denominated, and if
the association documents permit the association to charge the member a
security deposit and the association requires the member to pay a security
deposit to secure completion of the member's construction project or compliance
with approved plans, all of the following apply:
(a)The deposit shall be placed in a trust account
with the following instructions:
(i)The cost of the trust account shall be shared
equally between the association and the member.
(ii)If the construction project is abandoned, the board
of directors may determine the appropriate use of any deposit monies.
(iii)Any interest earned
on the refundable security deposit shall become part of the security deposit.
(b)The association or the design review committee
must hold a final design approval meeting for the purpose of issuing approval of
the plans, and the member or member's agent must have the opportunity to attend
the meeting. If the plans are approved, the association's design review
representative shall provide written acknowledgement that the approved plans,
including any approved amendments, are in compliance with all rules and
guidelines in effect at the time of the approval and that the refund of the
deposit requires that construction be completed in accordance with those
approved plans.
(c)The association must provide for at least two
on-site formal reviews during construction for the purpose of determining
compliance with the approved plans.The member or member's agent
shall be provided the opportunity to attend both formal reviews. Within five
business days after the formal reviews, the association shall cause a written
report to be provided to the member or member's agent specifying any
deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations from the approved plans, as amended, that have come to the attention of the
association.
(d)Within thirty business days after the second
formal review, the association shall provide to the member a copy of the
written report specifying any deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations
from the approved plans,
as amended, that have
come to the attention of the association. If the written report does not
specify any deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations from the approved
plans, as amended, that have come to the attention of the association, the
association shall promptly release the deposit monies to the member. If the
report identifies any deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations from
the approved plans, as amended, the association may hold the deposit for one
hundred eighty days or until receipt of a subsequent report of construction
compliance, whichever is less. If a report of construction compliance is
received before the one hundred eightieth day, the association shall promptly
release the deposit monies to the member. If a compliance report is not
received within one hundred eighty days, the association shall release the
deposit monies promptly from the trust account to the association.
(e)Neither the approval of the plans nor the
approval of the actual construction by the association or the design review
committee shall constitute a representation or warranty that the plans or
construction comply with applicable governmental requirements or applicable
engineering, design or safety standards. The association in its discretion may
release all or any part of the deposit to the member before receiving a
compliance report. Release of the deposit to the member does not constitute a
representation or warranty from the association that the construction complies
with the approved plans.
3.Approval
of a construction project's architectural designs, plans and amendments shall
not unreasonably be withheld. END_STATUTE

