







REFERENCE TITLE: private prison study committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2173









Introduced by
Representatives
  Andrade, Cardenas, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Hale, Larkin, Mach, Mendez, Meyer,
  Saldate, Velasquez, Senator Quezada: Representatives Alston, Bolding, Clark,
  Espinoza, Fernandez, Friese, McCune Davis, Otondo, Rios, Steele





AN ACT

Establishing the
private prison study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Private prison study committee; membership; duties;
report; delayed repeal
A.The private prison study committee is established
consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who are
members of different political parties.The speaker of the house of
representatives shall designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson
of the committee.
2.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who are members of different political
parties.The president of the senate shall designate one of these
members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
3.One member who is appointed by the governor and
who represents a statewide coalition for prison reform.
4.Two members who represent the law enforcement
community, one of whom is from a county with a population of one million two
hundred thousand persons or more and who is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives and one of whom is from a county with a population of
less than one million two hundred thousand persons and who is appointed by the
president of the senate.
5.Two county attorneys or their designees, one of
whom is from a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand
persons or more and who is appointed by the president of the senate and one of
whom is from a county with a population of less than one million two hundred
thousand persons and who is appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives.
6.Two judges, one of whom is from a municipal court
and who is appointed by the president of the senate and one of whom is from a
superior court and who is appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives.
7.One member who is appointed by the governor and
who is a representative of the Arizona peace officer standards and training
board.
8.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
9.The director of the department of juvenile
corrections or the director's designee.
10.Two attorneys who practice criminal defense law
and who are appointed by the governor.
11.Three members, one each from Arizona state university,
the university of Arizona and northern Arizona university, who are faculty
members with expertise in law, criminology, sociology or another relevant field
and who are appointed by the president of each member's respective university.
B.The cochairpersons shall be members of different
political parties.
C.The study
committee shall research and report on the following:
1.The impact of
private prisons on the safety of the public.
2.The impact of
private prisons on the safety of prisoners and staff at private prison
facilities.
3.The economic efficiency and impact of housing
state prisoners in private prison facilities.
4.The provision of constitutionally appropriate
services for prisoners, including adequate health care at private prison facilities.
5.The training currently required for staff at
private prison facilities.
D.The private prison study committee may:
1.Request information, data and reports from any
state agency or political subdivision of this state and from private prison
facilities operating in this state.If possible, information shall
be provided electronically.
2.Hold hearings, conduct fact-finding tours and
take testimony from witnesses, including participants in the criminal justice
system, who may assist the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
E.On the request of the private prison study
committee, an agency of this state or a private prison facility shall provide
to the committee its services, equipment, documents, personnel and facilities
to the extent possible without cost to the committee.
F.The legislature shall provide staff and support
services to the committee.
G.The committee shall meet at the state capitol or
at other places as the cochairpersons deem necessary or convenient, and all
meetings shall be open to the public.
H.Members of the study committee are not eligible
to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant
to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
I.On or before December 31, 2016, the study
committee shall submit a report regarding its findings and recommendations to
the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of
the senate and provide a copy of its report to the secretary of state.The
report shall include the committee's recommendations regarding the continued
use of private prisons in this state.
J.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2017.

