







REFERENCE TITLE: unpaid leave; employee; military family







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2195









Introduced by
Representatives
  Larkin, Cardenas, Velasquez: Bolding, Espinoza, Fernandez, Hale, Mendez





AN ACT

Amending Title
23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 17; relating to
employment practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 17, to read:
ARTICLE 17.VETERANS' REINTEGRATION ACT
START_STATUTE23-496.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Employee"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 23211.
2."Employer"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 23211.
3."Immediate
family member" means a spouse, child, parent or sibling of the employee. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-496.01Unpaid leave; military family member
A.An
employer shall provide up to two consecutive workweeks of unpaid leave to an
employee if the employee makes a written request to the employer for the unpaid
leave at least two weeks before the commencement date of the leave time and the
employee has an immediate family member who either:
1.Was honorably discharged from the armed forces
of the United States and served in a combat zone within the nine months
immediately preceding the date the employee makes the leave request under this
section.
2.Is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the united states who is on military
leave and who served in a combat zone within the ninety days immediately
preceding the date the employee makes the leave request under this section.
B.An
employer is not required to provide an employee the unpaid leave under this
section more than once in each consecutive twelvemonth period.
C.If the
employee otherwise qualifies for the unpaid leave under this section, the
employer is required to grant the unpaid leave whether or not the employee is
otherwise eligible for time off or has other leave available. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Intent
The legislature finds and determines that the Veterans'
Reintegration Act will help to ensure cohesiveness and support among military
families of service members who are returning from wartime conditions and who
are reintegrating into a family and civilian setting.Reintegration
is the process by which military service members transition from the uniqueness
of military life into normal everyday civilian living.With the
number of returning service members increasing, they and their families must
now reassemble their lives after each member has experienced profound change.
The Veterans' Reintegration Act provides time for military families to
reconnect and for service members to receive the necessary post-deployment
support.
Sec.3.Short title
Title 23, chapter 2, article 17, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, may be cited as the "Veterans' Reintegration Act".

