







REFERENCE TITLE: clean elections; voter education







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2121









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

amending section
16-956, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the citizens clean elections act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Subject to the requirements of
article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 16-956,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-956.Voter education and enforcement duties
A.The commission shall:
1.Develop a procedure for publishing a document or
section of a document having a space of predefined size for a message chosen by
each candidate. For the document that is delivered before the primary
election, the document shall contain the names of every candidate for every
statewide and legislative district office in that primary election without
regard to whether the candidate is a participating candidate or a
nonparticipating candidate. For the document that is delivered before the
general election, the document shall contain the names of every candidate for
every statewide and legislative district office in that general election
without regard to whether the candidate is a participating candidate or a
nonparticipating candidate. The commission shall deliver one copy of each
document to every household that contains a registered voter.For
the document that is delivered before the primary election, the delivery may be
made over a period of days but shall be sent in time to be delivered to
households before the earliest date for receipt by registered voters of any
requested early ballots for the primary election.The commission may
deliver the second document over a period of days but shall send the second
document in order to be delivered to households before the earliest date for
receipt by registered voters of any requested early ballots for the general
election. The primary election and general election documents published by the
commission shall comply with all of the following:
(a)For any candidate who does not submit a message
pursuant to this paragraph, the document shall include with the candidate's
listing the words "no statement submitted".
(b)The document shall have printed on its cover the
words "citizens clean elections commission voter education guide" and
the words "primary election" or "general election" and the
applicable year. The document shall also contain at or near the bottom of the
document cover in type that is no larger than onehalf the size of the
type used for "citizens clean elections commission voter education
guide" the words "paid for by the citizens clean elections
fund".
(c)In order to prevent voter confusion, the
document shall be easily distinguishable from the publicity pamphlet that is
required to be produced by the secretary of state pursuant to section 19123.
2.Sponsor debates among candidates, in such manner
as determined by the commission.The commission shall require
participating candidates to attend and participate in debates and may specify
by rule penalties for nonparticipation.The commission shall invite
and permit nonparticipating candidates to participate in debates.
3.Prescribe forms for reports, statements, notices
and other documents required by this article.The commission shall
not require a candidate to use a reporting system other than the reporting
system jointly approved by the commission and the office of the secretary of
state.
4.Prepare and publish instructions setting forth
methods of bookkeeping and preservation of records to facilitate compliance
with this article and explaining the duties of persons and committees under
this article.
5.Produce a yearly report describing the
commission's activities and any recommendations for changes of law,
administration or funding amounts and accounting for monies in the fund.
6.Adopt rules to implement the reporting
requirements of section 16958, subsections D and E.
7.Enforce this article, ensure that money from the
fund is placed in candidate campaign accounts or otherwise spent as specified
in this article and not otherwise, monitor reports filed pursuant to this
chapter and financial records of candidates as needed and ensure that money
required by this article to be paid to the fund is deposited in the fund. The
commission shall not take action on any external complaint that is filed more
than ninety days after the postelection report is filed or ninety days after
the completion of the canvass of the election to which the complaint relates,
whichever is later.
B.The commission may subpoena witnesses, compel
their attendance and testimony, administer oaths and affirmations, take
evidence and require by subpoena the production of any books, papers, records
or other items material to the performance of the commission's duties or the
exercise of its powers.
C.The commission may adopt rules to carry out the
purposes of this article and to govern procedures of the commission.
Commission rule making is exempt from title 41, chapter 6, article 3. The
commission shall propose and adopt rules in public meetings, with at least
sixty days allowed for interested parties to comment after the rules are
proposed.The commission shall also file a notice of exempt rule
making and the proposed rule in the format prescribed in section 411022
with the secretary of state's office for publication in the Arizona
administrative register. After consideration of the comments received in the
sixty day comment period, the commission may adopt the rule in an open
meeting. Any rules given final approval in an open meeting shall be filed in
the format prescribed in section 411022 with the secretary of state's
office for publication in the Arizona administrative register.Any
rules adopted by the commission shall only be applied prospectively from the
date the rule was adopted.
D. Rules adopted by the commission are not
effective until January 1 in the year following the adoption of the rule,
except that rules adopted by unanimous vote of the commission may be made
immediately effective and enforceable.
E.If, in the view of the commission, the action of
a particular candidate or committee requires immediate change to a commission
rule, a unanimous vote of the commission is required. Any rule change made
pursuant to this subsection that is enacted with less than a unanimous vote
takes effect for the next election cycle.
F.Based on the results of the elections in any
quadrennial election after 2002, and within six months after such election, the
commission may adopt rules changing the number of qualifying contributions
required for any office from those listed in section 16950, subsection D, by no more than twenty per cent percent of the number applicable for the
preceding election.
G.As part
of the commission's voter education functions, the commission may spend voter
education monies for any of the following purposes:
1.Publishing
candidate statements for federal, state and county candidates.
2.Engaging
in voter education of the judicial performance evaluations and reports
prescribed by article VI, section 42, Constitution of Arizona, regarding judicial
retention elections.
3.Engaging
in voter education regarding statewide ballot measures, including the
development of educational materials for voters. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 16-956, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, is
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
of each house of the legislature.

