







REFERENCE TITLE: zero-based budgeting







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2111









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Farnsworth E, Finchem, Leach, Mitchell, Rivero: Allen J, Cobb,
  Fann, Norgaard, Olson, Townsend, Senator Lesko





AN ACT

amending sections
35-101, 35-112, 35-113 and 41-1272, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
budget preparation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 35-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-101.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Allotment" means the allocation of an
appropriation or other fund source over a full fiscal year within a budget
program or expenditure class.
2."Annual budget unit" means the
following agencies:
(a)The department of education.
(b)The Arizona board of regents.
(c)Arizona state university.
(d)Arizona state university west campus.
(e)Arizona state university east campus.
(f)The university of Arizona.
(g)Northern Arizona university.
(h)The school facilities board.
(i)The department of economic security.
(j)The state department of corrections.
(k)The department of juvenile corrections.
(l)The Arizona health care cost containment system.
(m)The department of health services.
(n)The department of administration.
(o)The department of transportation.
(p)The judiciary, including the supreme court, the
court of appeals and the superior court.
(q)The department of child safety.
3."Authorized agent" means a commercial
enterprise that is contracted
to process transactions on behalf of a state agency.
4."Biennial budget unit" means any
department, commission, board, institution or other agency of the state
organization receiving, expending or disbursing state funds or incurring
obligations against the state that is not an annual budget unit.
5."Budget estimates" means statements
with accompanying explanations, as provided by this chapter, in which a budget
unit states its financial requirements and requests appropriations.
6."Budget program" means functions and
activities of a budget unit or within a budget unit that are preplanned to
fulfill a distinct mission.
7."Budget unit" means any department,
commission, board, institution or other agency of the state organization
receiving, expending or disbursing state funds or incurring obligations against
the state. Budget unit includes the annual budget units and biennial budget
units.
8."Cardholder" means any person:
(a)Named on the face of a credit card to whom or
for whose benefit the credit card is issued by an issuer.
(b)In possession of a credit card with the consent
of the person to whom the credit card was issued.
9."Claim" means a demand against the
state for payment for either:
(a)Goods delivered or, in the case of highway
construction, goods or facilities to be delivered by the federal government.
(b)Services performed.
10."Convenience fee" means an additional
fee that is imposed by an authorized agent on a webbased or voice
response portal transaction for the acceptance of a credit card that would not
be charged if the same transaction were completed by an alternate method of
payment.
11."Credit card" means:
(a)Any instrument or device, whether known as a
credit card, charge card, credit plate, courtesy card or identification card or
by any other name, that is issued
with or without a fee by an issuer for the use of the cardholder in obtaining
money, goods, services or anything else of value, either on credit or in
possession or in consideration of an undertaking or guaranty by the issuer of
the payment of a check drawn by the cardholder, on a promise to pay in part or
in full at a future time, whether or not all or any part of the indebtedness
represented by this promise to make deferred payment is secured or unsecured.
(b)Any debit card, electronic benefit transfer card
or other access instrument or device, other than a check that is signed by the
holder or other authorized signatory on the deposit account, that draws monies
from a deposit account in order to obtain money, goods, services or anything
else of value.
(c)Any stored value card, smart card or other
instrument or device that enables a person to obtain goods, services or
anything else of value through the use of value stored on the instrument or
device.
(d)The number assigned to an instrument or device
described in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph even if the physical
instrument or device is not used or presented.
12."Discount fee" means the fee that is calculated and charged
by the credit card issuer or a financial institution pursuant to an agreement
for the processing of any credit card transaction.
13."Encumbrance" means an obligation in
the form of any purchase order, contract or other commitment which that
is chargeable to an appropriation or any other authorized fund
source and for which a part of the fund source is reserved.It
ceases to be an encumbrance when paid or canceled.
14."Expenditure class" means one of the
kinds of expenditure denoting a class of services or commodities purchased or
properties acquired as specified in the classification of expenditures
prescribed by the director of the department of administration for use in
expenditure accounting, in making budget estimates and in the budget reports
and budgets.
15."Issuer" means any business
organization, state agency or financial institution, or its duly authorized
agent, that issues a credit card.
16."Prepayment" means the payment of a
claim before receiving the goods or services.
17."Processing fee" means a fee that is charged by an entity
other than a credit card issuer or the processing financial institution to
process a credit card transaction.
18."Purchase order" means a document that
is signed by the appropriate agency authorized signatory, that requests a
vendor to deliver described goods or services at a specific price and that on
delivery and acceptance of the goods or services by this state becomes an
obligation of this state.
19."Transaction amount" means the total
amount due to the state for any goods, service or license or anything else of
value.
20."Zero-based
budget" means a budget estimate that is prepared without regard to any
previous level of funding, services or personnel. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 35-112, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-112.Forms for budget unit estimates; date of transmittal
A.The governor shall prescribe the forms to be used
by the budget units in submitting their budget estimates and requests for appropriations, including zero-based budgets, in accordance
with the provisions of this
chapter and shall prepare necessary instructions for the guidance of officials in preparing the
budget estimates and requests,
including zero-based budgets.
B.On or before June 1, the governor shall transmit
to the administrative head of each budget unit at least three complete sets of
prescribed forms on which budget estimates and requests for appropriations, including zero-based budgets, for the ensuing
fiscal year are to be submitted. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 35-113, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-113.Submission of budget estimates
Every year for annual budget units and biennially in evennumbered
years for biennial budget units, the head of each budget unit, not later than
September 1 or at a later date not to exceed thirty days after September 1 if
approved by the director of the governor's office of strategic planning and
budgeting, shall submit to the governor, with five copies, estimates of the
financial requirements and of receipts, including appropriated and
nonappropriated monies in no less detail than the state general fund, of the
budget unit for the next two ensuing fiscal years for biennial budget units and
for the next fiscal year for annual budget units. The estimates shall be on
the forms and in the manner prescribed by the governor with explanatory data
that may be required, together with
including a detailed explanation of the
forecasts and assumptions used to prepare the estimates for budget units that
are required to prepare and submit a zero-based budget pursuant to section 411272,
and may include any additional information the head of the budget
unit desires to submit. The governor may require biennial budget units to
submit budget estimates more often than every two years.The estimate estimates so submitted shall bear the approval
of the administrative head of the budget unit. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 41-1272, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1272.Powers and duties; finances
A.The joint legislative budget committee shall:
1.Ascertain facts and make recommendations to the
legislature relating to the state budget, revenues and expenditures of the
state, future fiscal needs, the organization and functions of state agencies or
their divisions and such other matters incident to the above these functions as may be provided for by
rules of the joint legislative budget committee.
2.Implement a system of fiscal notes to apply to
those bills introduced in the legislature that have a fiscal
impact.These fiscal notes shall also reflect the fiscal impact of
legislation on cities, counties and all other political subdivisions of the
state.
3.Implement a system of fiscal notes for any rule
as defined by section 411001 which
that has a fiscal impact.
4.Analyze the state tax structure, tax burdens on
individuals and businesses and tax incentives for existing and prospective
businesses. The analyses shall include:
(a)Projection of the impact of industry specific
tax incentive proposals on the state revenue base.
(b)Comparison among states of relative tax burdens
on existing and prospective businesses.
(c)Determination of reliance and incidence aspects
of the tax structure of this state.
5.Implement a system of fiscal analysis that
applies to those bills introduced in the legislature that involve one or more
proposed changes in the tax laws.Unless it is unreasonable to do
so, the fiscal analysis shall be based on assumptions that estimate the
probable behavioral response of taxpayers, businesses and other citizens and
shall include within the analysis
a statement identifying those assumptions.
6.On or
before January 15 of each calendar year, select budget units that are required
to prepare and submit a zero-based budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1
of the following calendar year. The joint legislative budget committee shall
require each budget unit to prepare and submit a zerobased budget at
least once in each tenyear period.
6.7.Adopt rules.
B.The joint legislative budget committee may:
1.Make studies, conduct inquiries and
investigations and hold hearings.
2.Meet and conduct its business any place within
the state during the sessions of the legislature or any recess of the
legislature and in the period when the legislature is not in session.
3.Establish subcommittees from the membership of
the legislature and assign to such subcommittee any study, inquiry,
investigation or hearing with the right to call witnesses which that
the joint legislative budget committee has authority to
undertake.
C.The joint legislative budget committee may obtain
operational and maintenance assistance for any facility under the control of
the committee without charge from the department of administration, may obtain
security assistance from the department of public safety, may employ personnel
to discharge operational, maintenance and security functions or may contract
for outside services payable from joint legislative budget committee
appropriations.
D.The joint legislative budget committee shall have
the powers conferred by law upon
on legislative
committees.
E.Members of the joint legislative budget committee
shall be reimbursed by their respective houses in the same manner as is
provided by law for a member of the legislature who attends a duly called
meeting of a standing committee. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

