







REFERENCE TITLE: tobacco products; luxury tax refunds







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2184









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending section
42-3008, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to luxury tax refunds.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-3008, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3008.Refunds; definitions
A.Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, the tax imposed by this chapter on any luxury shall be refunded when
the amount of the tax has been paid and when one of the following applies:
1.Proof is made to the department that the luxuries
were exported from this state or that the stamps have been affixed to luxuries
on which stamps are not required.
2.Proof is made to the department that the luxury
becomes unfit for sale due to breakage or spoilage within either six months
from the date that the distributor originally receives the luxury for sale or
two months from the date that the luxury was returned to the distributor by a
retailer, whichever occurs later.
3.Within six
months after A distributor returns a luxury to the manufacturer
or importer, for any reason and proof of the
return is made to the department.
B.The manner of making proof shall be in accordance
with rules adopted by the department.
C.The department shall not refund the tax for
stamps that are affixed to luxuries that are deemed contraband under this
chapter.
D.Except as otherwise provided in section 421123,
interest is calculated sixty days after receipt by the department of a claim
for refund under this section.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Breakage" means damage to the outer
wrapping or container of a tobacco product.
2."Importer" and "manufacturer"
have the same meanings prescribed in section 423451.
3."Spoilage" means mutilation, product
expiration or unfit for intended consumption. END_STATUTE

