







REFERENCE TITLE: abortion; parental consent; counseling
  exception







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2273









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Cardenas, Larkin: Clark, Fernandez, Hale, Mach, Plumlee, Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending section
362152, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to abortion.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-2152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2152.Parental consent; exception; hearings; time limits;
violations; classification; civil relief; statute of limitations
A.In addition to the other requirements of this
chapter, a person shall not knowingly perform an abortion on a pregnant
unemancipated minor unless the attending physician has secured the written and
notarized consent from one of the minor's parents or the minor's guardian or
conservator or unless a judge of the superior court authorizes the physician to
perform the abortion pursuant to subsection B of this section. Notwithstanding
section 41319, the notarized statement of parental consent and the
description of the document or notarial act recorded in the notary journal are
confidential and are not public records.
B.A judge of the superior court, on petition or
motion, and after an appropriate hearing, shall authorize a physician to
perform the abortion if the judge determines that the pregnant minor is mature
and capable of giving informed consent to the proposed abortion. If the judge
determines that the pregnant minor is not mature or if the pregnant minor does
not claim to be mature, the judge shall determine whether the performance of an
abortion on her without the consent from one of her parents or her guardian or
conservator would be in her best interests and shall authorize a physician to
perform the abortion without consent if the judge concludes that the pregnant
minor's best interests would be served.
C.If the pregnant minor claims to be mature at a
proceeding held pursuant to subsection B of this section, the minor must prove
by clear and convincing evidence that she is sufficiently mature and capable of
giving informed consent without consulting her parent or legal guardian based
on her experience level, perspective and judgment.In assessing the
pregnant minor's experience level, the court may consider, among other relevant
factors, the minor's age and experiences working outside the home, living away
from home, traveling on her own, handling personal finances and making other
significant decisions.In assessing the pregnant minor's
perspective, the court may consider, among other relevant factors, what steps
the minor took to explore her options and the extent to which she considered
and weighed the potential consequences of each option.In assessing
the pregnant minor's judgment, the court may consider, among other relevant
factors, the minor's conduct since learning of her pregnancy and her
intellectual ability to understand her options and to make an informed
decision.
D.The pregnant minor may participate in the court
proceedings on her own behalf. The court shall appoint a guardian ad litem for
her. The court shall advise her that she has the right to court appointed court-appointed counsel and, on her request,
shall provide her with counsel unless she appears through private counsel or
she knowingly and intelligently waives her right to counsel.
E.Proceedings in the court under this section are
confidential and have precedence over other pending matters. Members of the
public shall not inspect, obtain copies of or otherwise have access to records
of court proceedings under this section unless authorized by law.A
judge who conducts proceedings under this section shall make in writing
specific factual findings and legal conclusions supporting the decision and
shall order a confidential record of the evidence to be maintained, including
the judge's own findings and conclusions. The minor may file the petition
using a fictitious name. For the purposes
of this subsection, public does not include judges, clerks, administrators,
professionals or other persons employed by or working under the supervision of
the court or employees of other public agencies who are authorized by state or
federal rule or law to inspect and copy closed court records.
F.The court shall hold the hearing and shall issue
a ruling within fortyeight hours, excluding weekends and holidays, after
the petition is filed.If the court fails to issue a ruling within
this time period, the petition is deemed to have been granted and the consent
requirement is waived.
G.An expedited confidential appeal is available to
a pregnant minor for whom the court denies an order authorizing an abortion
without parental consent.The appellate court shall hold the hearing
and issue a ruling within fortyeight hours, excluding weekends and
holidays, after the petition for appellate review is filed. Filing fees are
not required of the pregnant minor at either the trial or the appellate level.
H.Parental consent or judicial authorization is not
required under this section if either any of the following applies:
1.The pregnant minor certifies to the attending
physician that the pregnancy resulted from sexual conduct with a minor by the
minor's parent, stepparent, uncle, grandparent, sibling, adoptive parent, legal
guardian or foster parent or by a person who lives in the same household with
the minor and the minor's mother. The physician performing the abortion shall
report the sexual conduct with a minor to the proper law enforcement officials
pursuant to section 133620 and shall preserve and forward a sample of
the fetal tissue to these officials for use in a criminal investigation.
2.The attending physician certifies in the pregnant
minor's medical record that, on the basis of the physician's good faith
clinical judgment, the pregnant minor has a condition that so complicates her
medical condition as to necessitate the immediate abortion of her pregnancy to
avert her death or for which a delay will create serious risk of substantial
and irreversible impairment of major bodily function.
3.A
physician provides the information and counseling described in subsection N of
this section or refers the minor to a counselor who will provide the
information and counseling described in subsection N of this section, and the
person providing the information and counseling pursuant to subsection N of
this section complies with the requirements of subsection O of this section.
I.A person who
performs an abortion in violation of this section is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor. A person who intentionally causes, aids or assists a minor in
obtaining an abortion in violation of this section is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor. A person is not subject to any liability under this section if
the person establishes by written evidence that the person relied on evidence
sufficient to convince a careful and prudent person that the representations of
the pregnant minor regarding information necessary to comply with this section
are true.
J.In addition to other remedies available under the
common or statutory law of this state, one or both of the minor's parents or
the minor's guardian may bring a civil action in the superior court in the
county in which the parents or the guardian resides to obtain appropriate
relief for a violation of this section, unless the pregnancy resulted from the
criminal conduct of the parent or guardian. The civil action may be based on a
claim that failure to obtain consent was a result of simple negligence, gross
negligence, wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other legal standard of
care. The civil action may be brought against the person who performs the
abortion in violation of this section and any person who causes, aids or
assists a minor to obtain an abortion without meeting the requirements of this
section. Relief pursuant to this subsection includes the following:
1.Money damages for all psychological, emotional
and physical injuries that result from the violation of this section.
2.Statutory damages in an amount equal to five
thousand dollars or three times the cost of the abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney fees and costs.
K.A civil action brought pursuant to this section
must be initiated within six years after the violation occurred.
L.The consent required by this section must be
obtained on a form prescribed by the department of health services. At a minimum,
the form must:
1.List the possible medical risks that may occur
with any surgical, medical or diagnostic procedure, including the potential for
infection, blood clots, hemorrhage, allergic reactions and death.
2.List the possible medical risks that may occur
with a surgical abortion, including hemorrhage, uterine perforation, sterility,
injury to the bowel or bladder, a possible hysterectomy as a result of a
complication or injury during the procedure and failure to remove all products
of conception that may result in an additional procedure.
3.List the possible medical risks that may occur
with a medication abortion, including hemorrhage, infection, failure to remove
all products of conception that may result in an additional procedure,
sterility and the possible continuation of the pregnancy.
4.Require the pregnant minor's and the pregnant
minor's parent's initials on each page of the form and a full signature on the
final page of the form.
5.Include a space for the notary's signature and
seal on the final page of the form.
M.The physician must maintain the form in the
pregnant minor's records for seven years after the date of the procedure or
five years after the date of the minor's maturity, whichever is longer.
N.A
physician or counselor who provides pregnancy information and counseling under
this subsection shall do all of the following in a manner that will be
understood by the minor:
1.Explain
that the information being given to the minor is being given objectively and is
not intended to coerce, persuade or induce the minor to choose to either have
an abortion or carry the pregnancy to term.
2.Explain
that the minor may withdraw a decision to have an abortion at any time before
the abortion is performed or may reconsider a decision not to have an abortion
at any time within the time period during which an abortion may legally be
performed.
3.Clearly
and fully explore with the minor the alternative choices available for managing
the pregnancy, including all of the following:
(a)Carrying the pregnancy
to term and keeping the child.
(b)Carrying the pregnancy
to term and placing the child with a relative or with another family through
foster care or adoption. 
(c)The elements of
prenatal and postnatal care.
(d)Having an abortion.
4.Explain
that agencies are available to provide birth control information and that a
list of these agencies and the services available from each will be provided if
the minor requests.
5.Discuss
the possibility of involving the minor's parent, guardian or other adult family
member in the minor's decision making concerning the pregnancy and explore
whether the minor believes that involvement would be in the minor's best
interests.
6.Provide
adequate opportunity for the minor to ask any questions concerning the
pregnancy, abortion, child care and adoption, and provide the information the
minor seeks or, if the person cannot provide the information, indicate where
the minor can receive the information.
O.After
providing the information and counseling to a minor as required by subsection N
of this section, the physician or counselor shall:
1.Have the
minor sign and date a form stating:
(a)that The minor has
received information on prenatal and postnatal care and alternatives to
abortion and that there are agencies that will provide assistance.
(b)that The minor has
received an explanation that the minor may withdraw an abortion decision or
reconsider a decision to carry a pregnancy to term. 
(c)that The alternatives
available for managing the pregnancy have been clearly and fully explored with
the minor.
(d)that The minor has
received an explanation about agencies available to provide birth control
information.
(e)that The minor has
discussed with the physician or counselor the possibility of involving the
minor's parent, guardian or other adult family member in the minor's decision
making about the pregnancy. 
(f)The reasons for not involving the minor's parent, guardian
or other adult family member, if applicable.
(g)that The minor has
been given an adequate opportunity to ask questions.
2.Sign and
date the form and include that person's address and telephone
number.The person shall keep a copy for that person's files and
shall give the form to the minor or, if the minor requests and if the person
providing the information is not the attending physician, transmit the form to
the minor's attending physician. END_STATUTE

