







REFERENCE TITLE: ADOT; authorized third parties







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2249









Introduced by
Representative
  Gray





AN ACT

amending section
28-5105, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to authorized third parties.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-5105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5105.Criminal records check; denial of application; immunity
from costs
A.Each applicant who owns twenty per cent
percent or more of an entity, and each partner or stockholder who owns twenty
per cent percent or more of an entity,
and each person who is an employee of an authorized
third party who has access to motor vehicle records, personal information as
defined in section 28-440 or monies collected on behalf of this state, and
who seeks authorization or certification, or both, pursuant to this article
shall provide:
1.A full set of fingerprints to the department of
transportation for the purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal
records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.
The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the
federal bureau of investigation.
2.A nonrefundable fee to be paid to the department
of public safety for the criminal records check.
B.The director may deny an application for
authorization or certification, or both, if any individual included in the
application has either:
1.Made a misrepresentation or misstatement in the
application to conceal a matter that would cause the application to be denied.
2.Been convicted of fraud or an auto related felony
in any state, territory or possession of the United States or any foreign
country within the ten years immediately preceding the date the criminal
records check is complete.
3.Been convicted of a felony, other than a felony
described in paragraph 2 of this subsection, in a state, territory or
possession of the United States or a foreign country within the five years
immediately preceding the date the criminal records check is complete.
4.Violated a rule or policy of the department.
5.Been involved in any activity that the director
determines to be inappropriate in relation to the authority granted.
C.The director may approve an application for
provisional authorization or certification, or both, pending completion of the
criminal records check if the applicant meets all other requirements of this
article. The director may revoke a provisional authorization or certification,
or both, for a violation of this title.A provisional authorization
or certification, or both, is valid unless revoked by the director or until the
applicant receives approval or denial of the application for authorization or
certification, or both.
D.Within twenty days of completion of the criminal
records check, the director shall approve or deny the
application.If the application is denied, the director shall advise
the applicant in writing of the denial and the grounds for denial. The
department or its employees are not liable for any costs incurred by an
applicant seeking authorization or certification, or both, under this article.
E.Within thirty days after receipt of the notice of
denial, the applicant may petition the director in writing for a hearing on the
application pursuant to section 285107.
F.If the authorized third party adds a partner or
stockholder who owns twenty per cent percent or more of the entity
and who was not included in the criminal records check on a prior application,
the authorized third party shall notify the department within thirty days of
the change.
G.At the time of notification pursuant to
subsection F of this section, the third party shall submit to the department of
transportation an application and, if applicable, a full set of fingerprints
and the fee to be paid to the department of public safety for a criminal
records check. On completion of the investigation if the individual added or
changed by the authorized third party is found to be ineligible pursuant to
subsection B of this section, the director of the department of transportation
shall advise the authorized third party and the individual in writing of the
grounds for the action and that the authorization will be revoked unless the
individual is removed from the position.
H.The requirement for a criminal records check does
not apply to an applicant who is seeking third party authorization and who is:
1.A department, agency or political subdivision of
this state.
2.An Arizona court.
3.An Arizona law enforcement agency or department.
4.A financial institution or enterprise under the
jurisdiction of the department of financial institutions or a federal monetary
authority.
5.The federal government or any of its agencies.
6.A motor vehicle dealer that is licensed and
bonded by the department of transportation or a state organization of licensed
and bonded motor vehicle dealers.
7.A manufacturer, importer, factory branch or
distributor licensed by the department of transportation.
8.An insurer under the jurisdiction of the
department of insurance.
9.An owner or registrant of a fleet of one hundred
or more vehicles.
10.A public utility.
11.A tribal government.
12.An employer or association that has at least
five hundred employees or members. END_STATUTE

