







REFERENCE TITLE: supervisory appraisers; duties







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2263









Introduced by
Representative
  Brophy McGee





AN ACT

amending section
32-3601, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to real estate appraisal.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-3601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Appraisal" or "real estate
appraisal" means a statement that is independently and impartially
prepared by an individual setting forth an opinion as to the market value of
real property as of a specific date and supported by the presentation and
analysis of relevant market information.
2."Appraisal assignment" means an
engagement for which a real estate appraiser is employed or retained to act, or
would be perceived by third parties or the public in acting, as a disinterested
third party in rendering an unbiased analysis, opinion or conclusion relating
to the nature, quality, value or utility of specified interests in or aspects
of identified real estate.
3."Appraisal foundation" means the
appraisal foundation incorporated as an Illinois notforprofit
corporation on November 30, 1987.
4."Appraisal report" means any
communication, written or oral, of an appraisal.
5."Appraisal review" means the act of
reviewing or the report that follows a review of an appraisal assignment or
appraisal report in which a real estate appraiser forms an opinion as to the
adequacy and appropriateness of the report being reviewed.
6."Appraisal standards board" means the
appraisal standards board appointed by the board of trustees of the appraisal
foundation to develop, interpret and amend the uniform standards of
professional appraisal practice.
7."Appraisal subcommittee" means the
subcommittee of the federal financial institutions examination council created
pursuant to 12 United States Code section 3310 and chapter 34A, as amended.
8."Appraiser qualifications board" means
the appraiser qualifications board that is appointed by the board of trustees
of the appraisal foundation to establish the minimum education, experience and
examination requirements for real estate appraisers.
9."Complex one to four residential units"
means property that is atypical for the marketplace.Atypical
factors may include architectural style, age of improvements, size of
improvements, size of lot, neighborhood land use, potential environmental
hazard liability, leasehold interests, limited readily available comparable
sales data or other unusual factors.
10."Course approval" means the act of the
superintendent reviewing course materials to form an opinion as to the adequacy
and appropriateness of the course for licensing pursuant to section 323613,
certification pursuant to section 323614 and continuing education as
prescribed in section 323625 in accordance with the appraiser
qualifications board and this chapter.
11."Federal financial institutions examination
council" means that agency of the federal government created pursuant to
12 United States Code chapters 34 and 34A, as amended.
12."Federally related transaction" means
any real estate related financial transaction that a federal financial
institution's regulatory agency or the resolution trust corporation engages in,
contracts for or regulates and that requires an appraisal.
13."Property tax agent" means an
individual who is designated by a person or is an employee of an entity
designated as an agent pursuant to section 4216001, who acts on behalf
of a person who owns, controls or possesses property valued by a county
assessor and who receives a fee for the analysis of any matter relating to the
review of the valuation of the person's property before the assessor. Property
tax agent does not include a person who is admitted to practice law in this
state, an employee of the person owning, controlling or possessing the property
or an employee of an entity designated pursuant to section 4216001, if
the employee is performing a secretarial, clerical or administrative support
function.
14."Real estate" means an identified
parcel or tract of land, including improvements, if any.
15."Real estate related financial
transaction" means any transaction involving the sale of, lease of,
purchase of, investment in or exchange of real property, including interests in
property or the financing of property, the refinancing of real property or
interests in real property and the use of real property or interests in
property as security for a loan or investment, including mortgagebacked securities.
16."Real property" means one or more
defined interests, benefits and rights inherent in the ownership of real
estate.
17."Registered trainee appraiser" means a
person who meets both of the following requirements:
(a)Is registered with the superintendent and meets
the appraiser qualifications board's qualifications for trainee appraisers to
perform appraisal services only under the direct supervision of a certified
appraiser who has met the minimum criteria to be a supervisory appraiser.
(b)Accepts assignments only from the registered
trainee appraiser's supervisory appraiser.
18."Review appraiser" means a person who
engages in the activity of reviewing and evaluating the appraisal work of
others from the perspective of an appraiser, generally for compensation as a
separate skill.This includes the function of reviewing an appraisal
report or a file memorandum setting forth the results of the review process.
19."Standards of professional appraisal
practice" means the uniform standards of professional appraisal practice
adopted by the superintendent.
20."State licensed or state certified
appraiser" means a person who develops and communicates appraisals and who
holds a current, valid license or certificate issued under this chapter.
21."Superintendent" means the
superintendent of financial institutions.
22."Supervisory appraiser" means a state
certified appraiser who has a supervisory appraiser designation and who:
(a)Has been in good standing for the last three
years in the jurisdiction in which the registered trainee appraiser practices.
(b)Has not been disciplined in a manner that
affects the supervisory appraiser's eligibility to engage in appraisal practice
in any jurisdiction in the last three years.
(c)Directly supervises registered trainee
appraisers by doing the following:
(i)Accepting responsibility for an appraisal by
signing and certifying that the appraisal complies with the uniform standards
of professional appraisal practice.
(ii)Reviewing and signing all registered trainee
appraiser reports.
(iii)Personally
inspecting each appraised property with the registered trainee appraiser.
23."Value" means the monetary
relationship between properties and those who buy, sell or use those
properties. END_STATUTE

