







REFERENCE TITLE: charter schools; special education
  funding 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2294









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer





AN ACT

amending section
15774, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to special education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-774, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-774.Extraordinary special education needs fund; grant
application; criteria
A.The extraordinary special education needs fund is
established consisting of legislative appropriations, gifts, grants and
donations. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation and are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations. The state board of education shall administer the fund.
B.A school district or charter school may apply to the state board
of education for an extraordinary special education needs grant from the fund.
The state board of education shall prescribe the format of the applications.
The applications shall include the following:
1.Demonstration of extraordinary needs, including a
description and documentation of pupil services required and evidence that the
district or charter school is
not able to absorb the costs of these services.
2.Evidence that monies from the fund will not
supplant federal, local or other state efforts.
3.Evidence that before making an application for
monies from the fund the school district or charter school has made sufficient efforts to seek but
has not received funding to cover the extraordinary costs applied for pursuant
to paragraph 1 of this subsection from all other sources, including federal and
other state sources of funding.
C.Extraordinary special education needs grants
shall be used in the current year. All unspent grant monies shall be returned
to the department of education at the end of the fiscal year for deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in the extraordinary special education needs fund. END_STATUTE

