







REFERENCE TITLE: limited service pregnancy centers;
  regulation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2206









Introduced by
Representatives
  Meyer, Andrade, Cardenas, Fernandez, Senator Hobbs: Representatives Gabaldn,
  Hale





AN ACT

amending title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 19.1; relating to pregnancy.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 19.1, to read:
CHAPTER 19.1
LIMITED SERVICE
PREGNANCY CENTERS
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-2111.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Health care provider" means an individual
who is licensed or certified pursuant to title 32 to provide health care
services in this state.
2."Limited service pregnancy center":
(a)Means
an organization, including a pregnancy counseling organization or crisis
pregnancy center, that for a fee or free of charge provides pregnancy
counseling or information but does not perform abortions or make referrals to
an abortion provider and is not licensed or certified by this state or the
federal government to provide medical or health care services.
(b)Does
not include a health care provider, a hospital, an abortion clinic or a family
planning clinic that performs abortions, provides contraception or provides
abortion or contraception referrals. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2112.Requirements for materials provided; violation;
classification
A.All materials and information provided to a pregnant
woman by a limited service pregnancy center shall be scientifically accurate
and evidence-based, as determined by a medical organization or physician group.
B.A violation of this section is a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2113.Nondirective counseling; information required; violation;
classification
A.A limited service pregnancy center that receives state
money shall provide to each client comprehensive, nondirective reproductive
health care counseling and information, including information on planning,
birth control, pregnancy and postpartum health.
B.An employee of a limited service pregnancy center who
violates subsection A of this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2114.Posted notice required; violation; unlawful practice
A.A limited service pregnancy center shall prominently
display two black and white signs at the entrance of the center, one in English
and one in Spanish, that contain the following statement: "This center is
not a licensed medical facility." Each sign must be at least eight and
onehalf by eleven inches in size and be clearly legible from outside of
the center. The text for the sign shall be in at least fortyeightpoint
font size.
B.A violation of this section is an unlawful practice
pursuant to section 441522. The attorney general may investigate and
take appropriate action as prescribed by title 44, chapter 10, article 7. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2115.Civil penalties; costs; attorney fees
A.In addition to being
subject to a criminal penalty, a person who intentionally violates section 362112
or 362113 is subject to a civil penalty in an amount of not more than
ten thousand dollars for each violation. The amount shall be based on:
1.The seriousness of the violation.
2.The history of previous violations.
3.The amount necessary to deter a future violation.
4.Any other matter that justice may require.
B.The attorney general or county attorney of the county
in which the violation is alleged to have occurred may file an action in
superior court to collect a civil penalty under this section.In the
action the attorney general or county attorney may recover reasonable expenses
incurred in obtaining the penalty, including investigation and court costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
C.A separate civil penalty may be assessed for each day
a continuing violation occurs.
D.The penalties provided by this section are in addition
to any other penalty provided by law. END_STATUTE

