







REFERENCE TITLE: foster parent training







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2270









Introduced by
Representative
  Allen J





AN ACT

amending section
8509, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to child welfare and placement.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-509, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-509.Licensing of foster homes; renewal of license; provisional
license; exemption from licensure; immunization requirements
A.The division
department shall license
and certify foster homes. Licenses are valid for a period of two years.
B.The division
department shall not
issue a license without satisfactory proof that the foster parent or parents
have completed six actual hours of approved initial foster parent training as
set forth in section 8503 and that each foster parent and each other
adult member of the household has a valid fingerprint clearance card issued
pursuant to section 411758.07. The foster parent and each other adult
member of the household must certify on forms that are provided by the division department and that are notarized whether the
foster parent or other adult member of the household is awaiting trial on or
has ever been convicted of any of the criminal offenses listed in section 411758.07,
subsections B and C in this state or similar offenses in another state or
jurisdiction.
C.The division
department shall not
renew a license without satisfactory proof that the foster parent or parents
have completed six twelve actual hours of approved
ongoing foster parent training per year
during the twoyear period of
licensure as set forth in section 8503.
D.Notwithstanding
the requirements of subsections B and C of this section, If the division department determines that completing the training required in subsections B and
C of this section would be a condition of hardship to the foster parent or
parents, the division department may issue a
provisional license for a period not to exceed six months.A
provisional license may not be renewed.
E.Child welfare agencies that submit foster homes
for licensing shall conduct an investigation of the foster home pursuant to
licensing rules of the division
department.The
division department shall conduct investigations of all
other foster homes.If the foster home meets all requirements set by
the division department, the agency shall
submit an application stating the foster home's qualifications to the division department.The agency may also
recommend the types of licensing and certification to be granted to the foster
home.
F.The division
department shall accept
an adoptive home certification study as a licensing home study if the study has
been updated within the past three months to include the information necessary
to determine whether the home meets foster care licensing standards.
G.This section does not apply if the child is
placed in a home by a means other than by court order and if the home does not
receive compensation from this state or any political subdivision of this
state.
H.The division
does department may not
prohibit a person operating a licensed foster home from applying for or
receiving compensation as a foster home parent due to employment with this
state.
I.The division
department shall not
require a foster parent to immunize the foster parent's natural or adoptive
children as a condition of foster home licensure.
J.A licensee may modify the renewal date of a
license issued pursuant to this section by submitting an application for
modification of renewal date with the division
department on a form
prescribed by the division department. The licensee must
specify the new month of renewal on the application.The modified
renewal date must be prior to before, but not more than six
months earlier than, the existing renewal date. END_STATUTE

