







REFERENCE TITLE: repeal; right to work







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2282









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Larkin, Rios: Clark, Espinoza, Fernandez, Hale,
  Velasquez





AN ACT

Repealing section
23-1302, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 231501, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to the right to work.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading Change
The article heading of title 23, chapter 8, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is changed from "RIGHT TO WORK" to "GENERAL
PROVISIONS".
Sec.2.Repeal
Section 23-1302,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.3.Section 23-1501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1501.Severability of employment relationships; protection from
retaliatory discharges; exclusivity of statutory remedies in employment
A.The public policy of this state is that:
1.The employment relationship is contractual in
nature.
2.The employment relationship is severable at the
pleasure of either the employee or the employer unless both the employee and
the employer have signed a written contract to the contrary setting forth that
the employment relationship shall remain in effect for a specified duration of
time or otherwise expressly restricting the right of either party to terminate
the employment relationship.Both the employee and the employer must
sign this written contract, or this written contract must be set forth in the
employment handbook or manual or any similar document distributed to the
employee, if that document expresses the intent that it is a contract of
employment, or this written contract must be set forth in a writing signed by
the party to be charged.Partial performance of employment shall not
be deemed sufficient to eliminate the requirements set forth in this paragraph.
Nothing in This paragraph shall be construed to does not affect the rights of
public employees under the Constitution of Arizona and state and local laws of
this state or the rights of employees and employers as defined by a collective
bargaining agreement.
3.An employee has a claim against an employer for
termination of employment only if one or more of the following circumstances
have occurred:
(a)The employer has terminated the employment
relationship of an employee in breach of an employment contract, as set forth
in paragraph 2 of this subsection, in which case the remedies for the breach
are limited to the remedies for a breach of contract.
(b)The employer has terminated the employment
relationship of an employee in violation of a statute of this state.If
the statute provides a remedy to an employee for a violation of the statute,
the remedies provided to an employee for a violation of the statute are the
exclusive remedies for the violation of the statute or the public policy set
forth in or arising out of the statute, including the following:
(i)The civil rights act prescribed in title 41,
chapter 9.
(ii)The occupational safety and health act
prescribed in chapter 2, article 10 of this title.
(iii)The statutes governing the hours of employment
prescribed in chapter 2 of this title.
(iv)The agricultural employment relations act
prescribed in chapter 8, article 5 of this title.
(v)The statutes governing disclosure of information
by public employees prescribed in title 38, chapter 3, article 9.
All definitions and restrictions contained in the statute also
apply to any civil action based on a violation of the public policy arising out
of the statute.If the statute does not provide a remedy to an
employee for the violation of the statute, the employee shall have the right to
bring a tort claim for wrongful termination in violation of the public policy
set forth in the statute.
(c)The employer has terminated the employment
relationship of an employee in retaliation for any of the following:
(i)The refusal by the employee to commit an act or
omission that would violate the Constitution of Arizona or the statutes of this
state.
(ii)The disclosure by the employee in a reasonable
manner that the employee has information or a reasonable belief that the
employer, or an employee of the employer, has violated, is violating or will
violate the Constitution of Arizona or the statutes of this state to either the
employer or a representative of the employer who the employee reasonably
believes is in a managerial or supervisory position and has the authority to
investigate the information provided by the employee and to take action to
prevent further violations of the Constitution of Arizona or statutes of this
state or an employee of a public body or political subdivision of this state or
any agency of a public body or political subdivision.
(iii)The exercise of rights under the workers'
compensation statutes prescribed in chapter 6 of this title.
(iv)Service on a jury as protected by section 21236.
(v)The exercise of voting rights as protected by
section 161012.
(vi)The
exercise of free choice with respect to nonmembership in a labor organization
as protected by section 231302.
(vii)(vi)Service in the national guard or
armed forces as protected by sections 26167 and 26168.
(viii)(vii)The exercise of the right to be
free from the extortion of fees or gratuities as a condition of employment as
protected by section 23202.
(ix)(viii)The exercise of
the right to be free from coercion to purchase goods or supplies from any
particular person as a condition of employment as protected by section 23203.
(x)(ix)The exercise of a victim's right
to leave work as provided in sections 8420 and 134439.
B.If the statute provides a remedy to an employee
for a violation of the statute, the remedies provided to an employee for a
violation of the statute are the exclusive remedies for the violation of the
statute or the public policy prescribed in or arising out of the statute. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective unless the Constitution of
Arizona is amended by a vote of the people at the next general election to
repeal article XXV, Constitution of Arizona, relating to the right to work.

