







REFERENCE TITLE: community colleges; tuition waivers







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2229









Introduced by
Representatives
  Bolding, Andrade, Cardenas, Espinoza, Fernandez, Hale, Larkin, Mendez:
  Gabaldn, McCune Davis, Otondo





AN ACT

amending section
151445, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to community colleges.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1445, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1445.Administrative powers and duties of district governing
boards
A district board shall:
1.Adopt policies for the government of the
community colleges under its jurisdiction.
2.In conjunction with other district boards, set
standards for the establishment, development, administration, operation and
accreditation of community colleges in the district.
3.Fix tuitions and graduate the tuitions and fees
between institutions and between residents, nonresidents and students from
foreign countries. The district board
shall waive the first two years of tuition and fees for students who reside in
this state and who maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a 4.0
scale, or the equivalent, for the duration of the twoyear tuition waiver
period. The district board may waive tuitions and fees and
graduate tuitions and waivers for an employee or the spouse or dependent child
of an employee of the district, or for a nonresident student enrolled in the
district if the district board determines the waiver is in the best interest of
this state and the student.
4.In conjunction with other district boards, submit
to the economic estimates commission before January 10 of each year the
estimated number of fulltime equivalent students for the district as
prescribed in section 151466.01.
5.Establish curriculums
curricula and designate
courses that in its judgment will best serve the interests of this state.
6.Determine academic classes that qualify as open
entry, open exit classes and prescribe policies for the operation of open
entry, open exit classes.
7.In conjunction with other district boards and the
state board of education, review and adopt, within the scope of the statutory
definitions of vocational and technological
technical education,
program and staff standards with modifications as necessary for courses taught
in community colleges. The district board shall base the standards on
vocational and technological
technical competence.
8.In conjunction with other district boards,
establish qualifications of the instructional staff that, at a minimum, shall
be equal to those required to meet accreditation guidelines and establish
standards of vocational and technological
technical competence
required to instruct in occupational as well as academic subjects.
9.In conjunction with other district boards,
prescribe guidelines providing for the transferability between community college
district vocational and technological
technical education
programs and in conjunction with the state board of education prescribe
guidelines for the interrelationship of secondary programs and postsecondary
programs.
10.In conjunction with other district boards,
prescribe the manner in which the selfevaluation of vocational and technological technical education programs is conducted as
provided in section 151452.
11.If requested by the state board of education,
assist in the preparation, publication and distribution of an annual state plan
and a comprehensive five year five-year state plan.
12.In conjunction with other district boards and
the state board of education, develop a process to determine program funding
priorities for state aid purposes.Each district board shall submit
state aid recommendations to the legislature. The recommendations shall be
based on the process and on existing cost studies of vocational and technological technical education in this state.
13.In conjunction with other district boards,
prescribe qualifications for admission to community colleges for honorably
discharged veterans who served on active duty in the armed forces for a minimum
of one year and who were previously enrolled at a community college or university
in this state. For the purpose of determining the qualifications, the district
board may not consider prior failing grades received by the veteran at a
community college or university in this state.
14.Require the publisher of each literary and nonliterary
textbook used in the community colleges of the district to furnish computer
software in a standardized format, when software becomes available for
nonliterary textbooks, to the district board from which braille versions of the
textbook may be produced.
15.Identify students simultaneously enrolled in a
course for both high school and college credit by using the same student level
data element required by section 151042, subsection A. The auditor
general shall have access to this information when certifying the fulltime
equivalent student enrollment pursuant to section 151466.01, paragraph
4.
16.Beginning
July 1, 2007, purchase Acquire
United States flags that are manufactured in the United States
and that are at least two feet by three feet and hardware to appropriately
display the United States flag and
purchase flags, acquire a
legible copy of the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights
that is manufactured in the United States, and display the flags in each classroom in
accordance with title 4 of the United States Code and display a legible copy of
the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights adjacent to the
flag. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Conditional enactment; notice
A.This act does not become effective unless on or
before December 31, 2026 both of the following occur:
1.Funding is provided under federal law to
reimburse community colleges for at least seventyfive percent of the
cost of the tuition and fee waivers prescribed in this act.
2.Funding is provided by this state to reimburse
community colleges for at least twentyfive percent of the cost of the
tuition and fee waivers prescribed in this act.
B.The state treasurer shall notify in writing the
director of the Arizona legislative council by January 15, 2027 either:
1.Of the date on which the condition was met.
2.That the condition was not met.

