







REFERENCE TITLE: community colleges; administrative
  tasks; reduction







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2244









Introduced by
Representative
  Thorpe





AN ACT

amending section
15249.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing title 15, chapter 12,
article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 151446, 151472
and 151483, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to community college
districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-249.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-249.02.Education learning and accountability fund; appropriation;
subaccounts
A.The education learning and accountability fund is
established consisting of legislative appropriations and fees collected from
universities and community college
districts in support of the education learning and accountability
system for public education.The department of education shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions of
section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. All monies
deposited in the fund for fiscal year 20112012 are appropriated for use
in fiscal year 20112012 and fiscal year 20122013.Monies
in the fund may only be used for the purposes prescribed in section 15249
and are subject to the requirements for review by the joint legislative budget
committee prescribed in that section.
B.The general fund subaccount is established within
the education learning and accountability fund consisting of appropriations
from the state general fund that are deposited into the fund. Monies in the
subaccount are continuously appropriated.
C.The university and community college fee subaccount is
established within the education learning and accountability fund consisting of
fees collected from universities and
community college districts that are deposited into the fund.
Monies in the subaccount are subject to legislative appropriation.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Title 15, chapter 12, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
repealed.
Sec.3.Section 15-1446, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1446.Leasepurchase agreements
A.A district board may enter into lease or leasepurchase
agreements for real property, including buildings and improvements to the
property.
B.Lease or
leasepurchase agreements authorized by subsection A of this section or
section 151444, subsection A, paragraph 11 shall not create an
obligation of payment by the district under the terms of the lease or leasepurchase
agreement for periods longer than fifteen years.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection B of this section, a district board may enter into lease agreements
for real property, including buildings and improvements to the property, that
obligate the district for more than fifteen years if such agreements are with
an Indian tribe, involve land owned or controlled by the federal government or
by a joint powers airport authority organized under title 28, chapter 25,
article 8 or involve real property that is owned by a nongovernmental nonprofit
corporation and that is offered for lease in an amount not to exceed one
thousand dollars per year to a community college district for purposes of
expanding health care education programs.
D.B.The amount of outstanding indebtedness due to acquisition of
real property by leasepurchase for each district shall not exceed two
million five hundred thousand dollars in any one year and fifteen million
dollars in the aggregate. A district board may pledge tuitions,
fees, rentals and other charges to any payments due under leasepurchase
agreements.
E.Notwithstanding
subsection D of this section, periodic payments and any option payments for
acquisition of real property by leasepurchase are restricted to payment
from capital outlay funds.
F.Districts
that acquire real property by leasepurchase are not entitled to receive
monies pursuant to section 151463 pertaining to the specific real
property acquired by leasepurchase.
G.C.Notwithstanding
any other law, payments on lease or leasepurchase agreements entered
into pursuant to subsection A of this section or section 151444,
subsection A, paragraph 11 are obligations of the district within the meaning
of the constitutional limit against indebtedness set out in article IX, section
8, Constitution of Arizona. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 15-1472, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1472.Community college district workforce development accounts
A.Each community college district shall establish a
separate workforce development account to receive only tax revenues authorized
pursuant to section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 3.Each
community college district board shall approve the expenditure of these monies
in accordance with section 151461 and consistent with subsection B of
this section.
B.Monies received pursuant to subsection A of this
section shall be expended for workforce development and job training purposes.These
expenditures may include:
1.Partnerships with businesses and educational
institutions.
2.Additional faculty for improved and expanded
classroom instruction and course offerings.
3.Technology, equipment and technology
infrastructure for advanced teaching and learning in classrooms or
laboratories.
4.Student services such as assessment, advisement
and counseling for new and expanded job opportunities.
5.The purchase, lease or leasepurchase of
real property, for new construction, remodeling or repair of buildings or
facilities on real property.
C.The state treasurer shall transfer monies under
this section into each district's workforce development account by the
fifteenth day of each month.The state treasurer shall also allocate
and distribute any pooled interest earnings earned from revenues authorized in
section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 3 to each district in accordance
with the method prescribed in subsection D, paragraph 2 of this section.
D.Revenues authorized for community college
districts in section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 3 shall be
distributed by the state in the following manner:
1.For thirteen fiscal years beginning in fiscal
year 20012002, the
state treasurer shall allocate one million dollars per fiscal year for the
purpose of bringing this state into compliance with the matching capital
requirements prescribed in section 151463.The state
treasurer shall distribute the monies authorized in this subsection to each
district in the order in which each campus qualified for funding pursuant to
section 151463.
2.After the monies have been paid each year to the
eligible districts pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, the state
treasurer shall distribute monies from the workforce development fund to each
community college district in the following manner:
(a)Each district shall receive the sum of two
hundred thousand dollars. This subdivision does not apply to a community
college tuition financing district established pursuant to section 151409.
(b)After each district has
received the payments prescribed in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, the
remainder of monies in the fund shall be distributed to each district according
to each district's fulltime equivalent student enrollment percentage of
the total statewide audited fulltime equivalent student enrollment in
the preceding fiscal year prescribed in section 151466.01. The
percentage distribution under this subdivision shall be adjusted annually on
October 1 of each year.
E.Revenues received by community college districts
shall not be used by the legislature to supplant or reduce any state aid
authorized in this chapter or supplant any proceeds from the sale of bonds
authorized in this article and article 5 of this chapter.
F.Monies received under this section shall not be
considered to be local revenues for purposes of article IX, section 21,
Constitution of Arizona.
G.Each
community college district or community college that is owned, operated or
chartered by a qualifying Indian tribe on its own Indian reservation shall
submit a report once every two years of its workforce development plan
activities and the expenditures authorized in this section to the governor,
president of the senate, speaker of the house of representatives, joint
legislative budget committee and Arizona commerce authority by December 1 of
every evennumbered year. The report shall include the purpose and goals
for which the workforce development monies were expended by each district or
community college together with a general accounting of the expenditures
authorized in subsection B of this section.A copy of the final
report shall also be provided to the secretary of state. For the purposes of
this subsection, "qualifying Indian tribe" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 425031.01. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
15-1483, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1483.Issuance of bonds
A.The board for and on behalf of an
institution is authorized from time to time to issue negotiable bonds for the
purpose of acquiring a project or projects. The bonds shall be authorized by
resolution of the board. The bonds may be issued in one or more series, bear
such date or dates, be in such denomination or denominations, mature at such
time or times, not exceeding forty years from the respective dates thereof,
mature in such amount or amounts, bear interest at such rate or rates, as
determined by the board, payable semiannually, be in such form either coupon or
registered, carry such registration privileges, be executed in such manner, be
payable in such medium of payment, at such place or places, and be subject to
such term of redemption, with or without premium, as such resolution or other
resolutions may provide.The bonds may be sold at not less than par
at either public or private sale.The bonds shall be fully
negotiable within the meaning and for all the purposes of title 47, chapter 3.
B.Before the
issuance of bonds that do not require voter approval, a district shall submit
information regarding the planned projects that will be funded with the bond
proceeds to the joint committee on capital review for review. END_STATUTE

