







REFERENCE TITLE: STO scholarships; means testing







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2210









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Alston, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Mach, Mendez, Otondo, Saldate:
  Andrade, Bolding, Clark, Gonzales, Hale, Larkin, Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending sections
43-1602, 43-1603 and 43-1605, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school
tuition organization scholarships.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1602.Certification as a school tuition organization
A.A nonprofit organization in this state that is
exempt or has applied for exemption from federal taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code may apply to the department of revenue
for certification as a school tuition organization, and the department shall
certify the school tuition organization if it meets the requirements prescribed
by this chapter. An organization must apply for certification on a form
prescribed and furnished on request by the department.
B.The department shall:
1.Maintain a public registry of currently certified
school tuition organizations.
2.Make the registry available to the public on
request.
3.Post the registry on the department's official
website.
C.The department shall send written notice by
certified mail to a school tuition organization if the department determines
that the school tuition organization has engaged in any of the following
activities:
1.Failing
Failed or refusing refused to allocate at least ninety per cent percent of annual revenues from contributions made for the
purposes of sections 431089 and 431089.03 for educational
scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Failed to
award at least sixty-six percent of educational scholarships and tuition grants
from contributions made pursuant to sections 431089 and 431089.03
to students whose family income does not exceed one hundred eighty-five percent
of the income limit required to qualify a child for reduced-price lunches under
the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code
sections 1751 through 1785).
2.3.Failing Failed or refusing refused to file the annual reports required by section 431604.
3.4.Limiting Limited the availability of scholarships to
students of only one school.
4.5.Encouraging Encouraged, facilitating facilitated or knowingly permitting permitted taxpayers to engage in actions
prohibited by this article.
5.6.Awarding Awarded, restricting restricted or reserving reserved educational scholarships or tuition
grants for use by a particular student based solely on the recommendation of
the donor.
D.A school tuition organization that receives
notice from the department pursuant to subsection C of this section has ninety
days to correct the violation identified by the department in the notice. If a
school tuition organization fails or refuses to comply after ninety days, the
department may remove the organization from the list of certified school
tuition organizations and shall make available to the public notice of removal
as soon as possible. An organization that is removed from the list of
certified school tuition organizations must notify any taxpayer who attempts to
make a contribution that the contribution is not eligible for the tax credit
and offer to refund all donations received after the date of the notice of
termination of certification.
E.A school tuition organization may request an
administrative hearing on the revocation of its certification as provided by
title 41, chapter 6, article 10.Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, a decision of the department is subject to judicial review
pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 43-1603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1603.Operational requirements for school tuition organizations;
notice; qualified schools
A.A certified school
tuition organization must be established to receive contributions from taxpayers
for the purposes of income tax credits under sections 431089 and 431089.03
and to pay educational scholarships or tuition grants to allow students to
attend any qualified school of their parents' choice.
B.To be eligible for
certification and retain certification, the school tuition organization:
1.Must allocate at
least ninety percent of its annual revenue from contributions made for the
purposes of sections 431089 and 431089.03 for educational
scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Shall
award at least sixty-six percent of educational scholarships and tuition grants
from contributions made pursuant to sections 431089 and 431089.03
only to students whose family income does not exceed one hundred eighty-five
percent of the income limit required to qualify a child for reduced-price
lunches under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United
States Code sections 1751 through 1785).
2.3.Shall not limit the availability
of educational scholarships or tuition grants to only students of one school.
3.4.May allow donors to recommend
student beneficiaries, but shall not award, designate or reserve scholarships
solely on the basis of donor recommendations.
4.5.Shall not allow donors to
designate student beneficiaries as a condition of any contribution to the
organization, or facilitate, encourage or knowingly permit the exchange of
beneficiary student designations in violation of section 431089,
subsection F.
5.6.Shall include on the
organization's website, if one exists, the percentage and total dollar amount
of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the previous
fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose
family income meets the economic eligibility requirements established under the
national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections
1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose
family income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this
paragraph but does not exceed one hundred eighty-five percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
6.7.Must not award educational
scholarships or tuition grants to students who are simultaneously enrolled in a
district school or charter school and a qualified school.
C.A school tuition
organization shall include the following notice in any printed materials
soliciting donations, in applications for scholarships and on its website, if
one exists:
Notice
A
school tuition organization cannot award, restrict or reserve scholarships
solely on the basis of a donor's recommendation.
A taxpayer may not
claim a tax credit if the taxpayer agrees to swap donations with another
taxpayer to benefit either taxpayer's own dependent.
D.In evaluating
applications and awarding, designating or reserving scholarships, a school
tuition organization:
1.Shall not award,
designate or reserve a scholarship solely on the recommendation of any person
contributing money to the organization, but may consider the recommendation
among other factors.
2.Shall consider the
financial need of applicants.
E.A taxpayer's
contribution to a school tuition organization that exceeds the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089 but does not exceed the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089.03 is considered a contribution
pursuant to section 431089.03. A school tuition organization must use
at least ninety percent of contributions made pursuant to section 431089.03
for educational scholarships or tuition grants for students to whom any of the
following applies:
1.Attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a full-time student as defined in
section 15901 or attended a preschool program that offers services to
students with disabilities at a governmental school for at least ninety days of
the prior fiscal year and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified
school.
2.Enrolls in a
qualified school in a kindergarten program or a preschool program that offers
services to students with disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a
member of the armed forces of the United States who is stationed in this state
pursuant to military orders.
4.Received an
educational scholarship or tuition grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this
subsection or under chapter 15 of this title if the student continues to attend
a qualified school in a subsequent year.
F.A school
tuition organization shall award at least sixty-six percent of educational
scholarships and tuition grants from contributions made pursuant to section 431089.03
only to students whose family income does not exceed one hundred eighty-five
percent of the income limit required to qualify a child for reduced-price lunches
under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code
sections 1751 through 1785).
F.G.In awarding educational
scholarships or tuition grants from contributions made pursuant to section 431089.03,
a school tuition organization shall give priority to students and siblings of
students on a waiting list for scholarships if the school tuition organization
maintains a waiting list.
G.H.If an individual educational
scholarship or tuition grant exceeds the school's tuition, the amount in excess
shall be returned to the school tuition organization that made the award or
grant.The school tuition organization may allocate the returned
monies as a multiyear award for that student and report the award pursuant to
section 431604, paragraph 5, subdivision (b) or may allocate the
returned monies for educational scholarships or tuition grants for other
students. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 43-1605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1605.Audits and financial reviews
A.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received one million dollars or more in total
donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial audit of
the organization.The audit must be conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and must evaluate the organization's
compliance with section 431603, subsection B, paragraph paragraphs 1 and 2. The audit must be conducted by an
independent certified public accountant licensed in this state. The certified
public accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated
with shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships
prescribed by generally accepted auditing standards.
B.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received less than one million dollars in
total donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial
review of the organization. The review must be conducted in accordance with
standards for accounting and review services and must evaluate the
organization's compliance with the fiscal requirements of this article. The
review must be conducted by an independent certified public accountant licensed
in this state.The certified public accountant and the firm the
certified public accountant is affiliated with shall be independent with
respect to the organization, its officers and directors, services performed and
all other independent relationships prescribed by generally accepted auditing
standards.
C.Within five days after receiving the audit or
financial review, the
school tuition organization shall file a signed copy of the audit or financial
review with the department. 
D.The school tuition organization shall pay the
fees and costs of the certified public accountant under this section from the
organization's operating monies. The fees and costs shall be excluded from the
calculation of total revenues spent on scholarships and tuition grants. END_STATUTE

