







REFERENCE TITLE: child care assistance







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2262









Introduced by
Representative
  Brophy McGee





AN ACT

Amending sections
46803 and 46805, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to child care
assistance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 46-803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-803.Eligibility for child care assistance
A.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are attempting to achieve independence from
the cash assistance program and who need child care assistance in support of
and as specified in their personal responsibility agreement pursuant to
chapters 1 and 2 of this title.
B.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are transitioning off of cash assistance
due to increased earnings or child support income in order to accept or
maintain employment. Eligible families must request this assistance within six
months after the cash assistance case closure. Child care assistance may be
provided for up to twentyfour months after the case closure and shall
cease whenever after a time period specified in rule by the
department once the family income exceeds one hundred sixtyfive
per cent percent of the federal poverty level but remains below eightyfive percent
of the state median income. If the family income exceeds eightyfive percent of the state
median income, child care assistance shall cease on notification by the
department.
C.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are diverted from cash assistance pursuant
to section 46298 in order to obtain or maintain
employment.Child care assistance may be provided for up to twentyfour
months after the case closure and shall cease whenever after a time period specified in rule by the department once
the family income exceeds one hundred sixtyfive per cent
percent of the federal poverty level but remains below eightyfive percent of the state
median income. If the
family income exceeds eightyfive percent of the state median income,
child care assistance shall cease on notification by the department.
D.The department may provide child care assistance
to support eligible families with incomes of one hundred sixtyfive per cent percent or less of the federal poverty level at the time of application to
accept or maintain employment. Child
care assistance shall cease after a time period specified in rule by the
department once the family income exceeds one hundred sixtyfive percent
of the federal poverty level but remains below eightyfive percent of the
state median income. If the family income exceeds eightyfive percent of
the state median income, child care assistance shall cease on notification by
the department. Priority for this child care assistance shall be
given to families with incomes of one hundred per cent
percent or less of the federal poverty level.
E.The department may provide child care assistance
to families referred by the department of child safety and to children in
foster care pursuant to title 8, chapter 4 to support child protection.
F.The department may provide child care assistance
to special circumstance families whose incomes are one hundred sixtyfive
per cent percent or less of the federal poverty level at the time of application and
who are unable to provide child care for a portion of a twentyfour hour
day due to a crisis situation of domestic violence or homelessness, or a
physical, mental, emotional or medical condition, participation in a drug
treatment or drug rehabilitation program or court ordered community
restitution. Child care assistance
shall cease after a time period specified in rule by the department once the
family income exceeds one hundred sixtyfive percent of the federal
poverty level but remains below eightyfive percent of the state median
income. If the family income exceeds eightyfive percent of the state
median income, child care assistance shall cease on notification by the
department.Priority for this child care assistance
shall be given to families with incomes of one hundred per cent
percent or less of the federal poverty level.
G.In lieu of the employment activity required in
subsection B, C or D of this section, the department may allow eligible
families with teenaged custodial parents under twenty years of age to complete
a high school diploma or its equivalent or engage in remedial education
activities reasonably related to employment goals.
H.The department may provide supplemental child
care assistance for department approved education and training activities if
the eligible parent, legal guardian or caretaker relative is working at least a
monthly average of twenty hours per week and this education and training are
reasonably related to employment goals.The eligible parent, legal
guardian or caretaker relative must demonstrate satisfactory progress in the
education or training activity.
I.Beginning
March 12, 2003, The
department shall establish waiting lists for child care assistance and
prioritize child care assistance for different eligibility categories in order
to manage within appropriated and available monies. Priority of children on
the waiting list shall start with those families at one hundred per cent
percent of the federal poverty level and continue with each
successive ten per cent percent increase in the
federal poverty level until the maximum allowable federal poverty level of one
hundred sixtyfive per cent percent. Priority shall be
given regardless of time spent on the waiting list.
J.The department shall establish criteria for
denying, reducing or terminating child care assistance that include:
1.Whether there is a parent, legal guardian or
caretaker relative available to care for the child.
2.Financial or programmatic eligibility changes or
ineligibility.
3.Failure to cooperate with the requirements of the
department to determine or redetermine eligibility.
4.Hours of child care need that fall within the
child's compulsory academic school hours.
5.Reasonably accessible and available publicly
funded early childhood education programs.
6.Whether an otherwise eligible family has been
sanctioned and cash assistance has been terminated pursuant to chapter 2 of
this title.
7.Other circumstances of a similar nature.
8.Whether sufficient monies exist for the
assistance.
K.Families receiving child care assistance under
subsection D or F of this section are also subject to the following
requirements for that child care assistance:
1.Each child is limited to no more than sixty
cumulative months of child care assistance. The department may provide an
extension if the family can prove that the family is making efforts to improve
skills and move towards self-sufficiency.
2.Families are limited to no more than six children
receiving child care assistance.
3.Copayments shall be imposed for all children
receiving child care assistance. Copayments for each child may be higher for
the first child in child care than for additional children in child care.
L.The department shall review each case at least no more than once a year to evaluate eligibility
for child care assistance.
M.The department shall report on December 31 and
June 30 of each year to the joint legislative budget committee the total number
of families who applied for child care assistance and the total number of
families who were denied assistance under this section because the parents,
legal guardians or caretaker relatives who applied for assistance were not
citizens or legal residents of the United States or were not otherwise lawfully
present in the United States.
N.This section shall be enforced without regard to
race, religion, gender, ethnicity or national origin.
O.The department shall refer all child care subsidy
recipients to child support enforcement and to local workforce services and
provide information on the earned income tax credit. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 46-805, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-805.Child care assistance; rates
A.The department shall establish payment rates for
child care assistance.Payment rates shall provide for equal access
for eligible families to comparable child care services provided to families
who are not eligible to receive child care assistance.
B.Beginning
on July 1, 1998, Payment
rates shall be identical in form for all child care assistance.
C.The department may pay different levels of child
care assistance according to the category of child care provider, age of
children, geographic area, level of national accreditation or another state-approved quality indicator,
varying child care costs for children with special needs or other circumstances
to meet the child care needs of eligible families.
D.The department shall establish a sliding fee
scale and formula for determining child care assistance based on:
1.Income and earnings of the family.
2.Family size.
3.Number of children receiving child care
assistance.
4.Child support to other minor dependent children
of the parent living outside the family unit.
5.Income and earnings of a family member who is at
least eighteen years of age and who is residing in the home with a parent who
is receiving child care assistance, if the family member claims any member of a
family unit applying for assistance as a dependent on a federal or state income
tax return.
6.Income and earnings of a nonfamily member who is
at least eighteen years of age and who is residing in the home of and
cohabiting with a parent who is receiving child care assistance if the cohabiting
nonfamily member claims any member of a family unit applying for assistance as
a dependent on a federal or state income tax return.
7.Other factors of a similar nature.
E.All child care providers shall remain in good
standing with licensing and certification laws and adopted rules. END_STATUTE

