







REFERENCE TITLE: class six property; elderly homeowners.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2299









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cardenas, Andrade, Bolding, Espinoza, Gabaldn, Larkin, Meyer, Velasquez:
  Bowers, Cobb, Fann, Fernandez, Lawrence, Leach, McCune Davis, Thorpe





AN ACT

Amending section
42-12006, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to property tax classification.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-12006, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12006.Class six property
For purposes of taxation, class six is established consisting
of:
1.Noncommercial historic property as defined in
section 4212101 and valued at full cash value.
2.Real and personal property that is located within
the area of a foreign trade zone or subzone established under 19 United States
Code section 81 and title 44, chapter 18, that is activated for foreign trade
zone use by the district director of the United States customs service pursuant
to 19Code of Federal Regulations section 146.6 and that is valued at full
cash value. Property that is classified under this paragraph shall not
thereafter be classified under paragraph 6 of this section.
3.Real and personal property and improvements that
are located in a military reuse zone that is established under title 41,
chapter 10, article 3 and that is devoted to providing aviation or aerospace
services or to manufacturing, assembling or fabricating aviation or aerospace
products, valued at full cash value and subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(a)Property may not be classified under this
paragraph for more than five tax years.
(b)Any new addition or improvement to property
already classified under this paragraph qualifies separately for classification
under this paragraph for not more than five tax years.
(c)If a military reuse zone is terminated, the
property in that zone that was previously classified under this paragraph shall
be reclassified as prescribed by this article.
(d)Property that is classified under this paragraph
shall not thereafter be classified under paragraph 6 of this section.
4.Real and personal property and improvements or a
portion of such property comprising an environmental technology manufacturing,
producing or processing facility that qualified under section 411514.02,
valued at full cash value and subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)Property shall be classified under this
paragraph for twenty tax years from the date placed in service.
(b)Any addition or improvement to property already
classified under this paragraph qualifies separately for classification under
this subdivision for an additional twenty tax years from the date placed in
service.
(c)After revocation of certification under section
411514.02, property that was previously classified under this paragraph
shall be reclassified as prescribed by this article.
(d)Property that is classified under this paragraph
shall not thereafter be classified under paragraph 6 of this section.
5.That portion of real and personal property that
is used on or after January 1, 1999 specifically and solely for remediation of
the environment by an action that has been determined to be reasonable and
necessary to respond to the release or threatened release of a hazardous
substance by the department of environmental quality pursuant to section 49282.06
or pursuant to its corrective action authority under rules adopted pursuant to
section 49922, subsection B, paragraph 4 or by the United States
environmental protection agency pursuant to the national contingency plan (40
Code of Federal Regulations part 300) and that is valued at full cash value.
Property that is not being used specifically and solely for the remediation
objectives described in this paragraph shall not be classified under this
paragraph.For the purposes of this paragraph, "remediation of
the environment" means one or more of the following actions:
(a)Monitoring, assessing or evaluating the release
or threatened release.
(b)Excavating, removing, transporting, treating and
disposing of contaminated soil.
(c)Pumping and treating contaminated water.
(d)Treatment, containment or removal of
contaminants in groundwater or soil.
6.Real and personal property and improvements
constructed or installed from and after December 31, 2004 through December 31,
2024 and owned by a qualified business under section 411516 and used
solely for the purpose of harvesting, transporting or processing qualifying
forest products removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
The classification under this paragraph is subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(a)Property may be initially classified under this
paragraph only in valuation years 2005 through 2024.
(b)Property may not be classified under this
paragraph for more than five years.
(c)Any new addition or improvement, constructed or
installed from and after December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2024, to
property already classified under this paragraph qualifies separately for
classification and assessment under this paragraph for not more than five
years.
(d)Property that is classified under this paragraph
shall not thereafter be classified under paragraph 2, 3 or 4 of this section.
7.Real and personal property and improvements to
the property that are used specifically and solely to manufacture from and after
December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2023 biodiesel fuel that is one hundred per cent percent biodiesel and its by-products or motor
vehicle biofuel and its byproducts and that are valued at full cash
value. This paragraph applies only to the portion of property that is used
specifically for manufacturing and processing one hundred per cent percent biodiesel fuel, or its related by-products, or
motor vehicle biofuel, or its related by-products, from raw feedstock obtained
from off-site sources, including necessary onsite storage facilities
that are intrinsically associated with the manufacturing process. Any other
commercial or industrial use disqualifies the entire property from
classification under this paragraph.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "motor vehicle biofuel" means a solid, liquid or gaseous
fuel that is derived from biological material such as plant or animal matter,
excluding organic material that has been transformed by geological processes
into substances such as coal or petroleum or derivatives thereof, and that:
(a)Contains fuel additives in compliance with
federal and state law.
(b)Is manufactured exclusively for use in a motor
vehicle.
8.Real and personal property and improvements that
are certified pursuant to section 411511, subsection C, paragraph 2 and
that are used for renewable energy manufacturing or headquarters operations as
provided by section 4212057. This paragraph applies only to property
that is used in manufacturing and headquarters operations of renewable energy
companies, including necessary on-site research and development, testing and
storage facilities that are associated with the manufacturing process. Up to
ten per cent percent of the aggregate full
cash value of the property may be derived from uses that are ancillary to and
intrinsically associated with the manufacturing process or headquarters
operation.Any additional ancillary property is not qualified for
classification under this paragraph. No new properties may be classified pursuant
to this paragraph from and after December 31, 2014.Classification
under this paragraph is limited to the time periods determined by the Arizona
commerce authority pursuant to section 411511, subsection C, paragraph
2, subdivision (a) or (b).Property that is classified under this
paragraph shall not thereafter be classified under any other paragraph of this
section.
9.Real and
personal property and improvements to the property that are used as the owner's
primary residence, that are owned by an individual who qualifies for property
valuation protection under article IX, section 18, subsection (7), constitution
of Arizona, and that are valued at full cash value. To qualify under this
paragraph, the individual may not own or have any legal, equitable, beneficial
or security interest in any other real property, wherever it may be located,
except Indirectly through an investment security, such as a mutual fund, that
includes real property among its assets. The homesite that is included in
class six may include:
(a)Up to
ten acres on a single parcel of real property on which the residential
improvement is located.
(b)More
than ten, but not more than forty, acres on a single parcel of real property on
which the residential improvement is located if it is zoned exclusively for
residential purposes or if it contains legal restrictions or physical
conditions that prevent the division of the parcel. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "physical conditions" means topography, mountains,
washes, rivers, roads or any other configuration that limits the residential
usable land area. END_STATUTE

