







REFERENCE TITLE: employment security; omnibus 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2222









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

Amending sections
23672 and 23724, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 23765,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 23771, 411504, 411955
and 411993, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to employment security.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-672, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-672.Appeals board
A.Within the department, an appeals board is
established consisting of up to four
members. The director shall appoint the members of the appeals board and shall
designate one member to serve as chairman.
B.Hearings conducted by or at the direction of the
appeals board shall be conducted as provided by section 23674 and other
provisions of this chapter. The department shall prescribe by rule the
procedures for petitioning for review, removal of cases to the board and
appeals under section 23673. An interested party may file either a
written or electronic petition for review. On the filing of a petition for
review, the department shall prepare a complete record unless the parties
stipulate otherwise.
C.In any case in which a petition for review of an
appeal tribunal or hearing officer decision has been filed by an interested
party, the appeals board may remand the case to any appeal tribunal or hearing
officer for further proceedings or may review the matter on the basis of the
record in the case, take additional evidence or rehear the matter and affirm,
reverse, modify or set aside the decision of the appeal tribunal or hearing
officer. On notice to the interested parties, a petition for review may be
reviewed by one member of the appeals board designated by the
chairman.If an interested party objects to review by one board
member, the matter shall be heard by three members of the appeals board.
D.Unless a petition for hearing or review of a
department determination made under article 5 of this chapter is withdrawn, the
appeals board after affording the parties reasonable opportunity for a fair
hearing shall issue its decision.
E.Every decision of the appeals board shall be in
writing.If the decision is issued by three a
majority of the members of the appeals board, and the appeals
board is not unanimous, the decision of the majority shall
control.The minority may file a dissent from the decision, setting
forth the reasons for the dissent.All interested parties shall be
promptly notified of the decision and the reasons for the decision. Notice to
the parties of the decision shall be accompanied by instructions explaining the
procedure for requesting review as
described in subsection F of this section and clearly indicating the final date
for filing a request for review pursuant to section 41-1993.
F.A party
dissatisfied with the decision under subsection E of this section may file a
request for review within thirty days from the date of the decision, which
shall be a written or electronic request and memorandum stating the reasons why
the appeals board's decision is in error and containing appropriate citations
of the record, rules and other authority. On motion, and for good cause, the
appeals board may extend the time for filing a request for review. The timely
filing of such a request for review is a prerequisite to any further
appeal.The appeals board shall notify all parties of the filing of
a request for review and shall allow fifteen days from the date of the notice
for any party to respond.Thereafter, the appeals board shall issue
a decision on review affirming, modifying or reversing its decision, or
ordering the taking of additional testimony.All parties shall be
given written notice by mail of the decision on review.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 23-724, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-724.Liability determinations; review; finality
A.When
if the department makes a
determination, which determination shall be made either on the motion of the
department or on application of an employing unit, that an employing unit
constitutes an employer as defined in section 23613 or that services
performed for or in connection with the business of an employing unit
constitute employment as defined in section 23615 that is not exempt
under section 23617 or that remuneration for services constitutes wages
as defined in section 23622, the determination shall become final with
respect to the employing unit sixty days after written notice is served
personally, by electronic transmission or by certified mail if the
determination was made on the basis of section 23613.01, or by first
class mail if the determination was made by any other basis, addressed to the
last known address of the employing unit, unless within such time the employing
unit files a written request for reconsideration.
B.When
If a request for
reconsideration is filed as prescribed in subsection A of this section, a
reconsidered determination shall be made. The reconsidered determination shall
become final with respect to the employing unit thirty days after written
notice of the reconsidered determination is served personally, by electronic
transmission or by mail addressed to the last known address of the employing
unit, unless within such time the employing unit files with the appeals board a
written petition for hearing or review.The department may for good
cause extend the period within which the written petition is to be
submitted.If the reconsidered determination is appealed to the
appeals board and the decision by the appeals board is that the employing unit
is liable, the employing unit shall submit all required contribution and wage
reports to the department within fortyfive days after the decision by
the appeals board.
C.On an employer's written request and the
submission of pertinent information to the department, the department shall, or
on its own motion may, consider whether a determination, reconsidered
determination or decision which
that has become final
should be revised. Revision shall be granted if either:
1.There has been a substantial and material change
in the facts on which the determination, reconsidered determination or decision
relied.
2.There has been a change in the law or
interpretation of the law which
that warrants a revised
determination, reconsidered determination or decision.
D.The effective date of a revision under subsection
C of this section is either:
1.The date on which the change occurred if the
employer's request with the pertinent information is filed no later than the
last day of the month immediately subsequent to the calendar quarter in which
the change occurred.
2.The first day of the calendar quarter in which
the employer files the request and submits the pertinent information unless the
employer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the department that good cause
exists for the failure to notify the department within the period prescribed by
paragraph 1 of this subsection of the occurrence of the change warranting the
revision.In the event such
that good cause is
demonstrated, the effective date shall be the date of the change.
E.A refusal to grant relief under subsection C of
this section may not be appealed unless within thirty days the employer appeals
the refusal to the appeals board.The employer's appeal shall be filed either electronically
or in writing. Notwithstanding any other provision of law and
pursuant to such an the appeal, the appeals board
may initiate hearings to obtain information and issue a decision as to whether
the relief requested in subsection C of this section should be
granted.Thereafter, the appeals board shall issue a decision in the
matter.The decision of the
appeals board may not be appealed with respect to the employing
unit unless petition for review and
a request for judicial review are is filed
within the time and in the manner provided in section 23672 41-1993. 
F.The determination
of the department or decision of the appeals board, together with the record,
shall be admissible in any subsequent judicial proceeding involving liability
for contributions.A determination or decision that an employing
unit is liable that has become final shall be conclusive and binding on the
employing unit and shall not be reconsidered in proceedings brought before the
department or a hearing officer.
G.Any determination issued on the basis of section
23613.01 pursuant to subsection A of this section and any reconsidered
determination issued pursuant to subsection B of this section and any
contribution rate redetermination or denial issued pursuant to section 23732,
subsection A shall contain the following:
1.The facts considered and the facts relied on in
making the determination.
2.The specific statutes, regulations or other
authority relied on in making the determination.
3.The reasoning applied in making the
determination.
4.The appeal rights related to the determination
and the time period after which the determination becomes final.
H.If any determination covered by subsection G of
this section is defective because it fails to meet the requirements of
subsection G of this section, the defect may be cured by issuance of a
corrected, amended or new determination.If a defect is alleged and
specified in writing within the period for appeal, all time periods applicable
to the determination are suspended pending the curative action.
I.This section does not preclude the department
from at any time correcting clerical errors that have occurred in the
administration of this chapter.
J.A determination, reconsidered determination,
revision or refusal to grant relief under this section may be served by
electronic means if the party being served consents in writing to service by
electronic means. Service by electronic means is deemed complete on
transmission. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Delayed repeal
Section 23-765,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after December 31, 2016.
Sec.4.Section 23-771, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-771.Eligibility for benefits
A.An unemployed individual shall be is eligible to receive benefits with respect to any week
only if the department finds that the individual:
1.Has registered for work at and thereafter has
continued to report at an employment office in accordance with such the
regulations as
prescribed by the
department prescribes.
2.Has made a claim for benefits in accordance with
section 23772.
3.Is able to work.
4.Except for an individual who is applying for
shared work benefits pursuant to article 5.1 of this chapter, is available for
work and both of the following apply:
(a)The individual has engaged in a systematic and
sustained effort to obtain work during at least four days of the week.
(b)The individual has made at least three four
work search contacts during
on four different days of the
week.
5.Has been unemployed for a waiting period of one
week.A week shall
is not be counted as a week of unemployment for the
purpose of this paragraph:
(a)Unless it occurs within the benefit year that
includes the week with respect to which the individual claims payment of
benefits.
(b)Unless the individual was eligible for benefits
with respect thereto as provided in this section and sections 23775, 23776
and 23777.
(c)If benefits have been paid in respect thereto.
6.Has met one of the following requirements:
(a)Has been paid wages for insured work during the
individual's base period equal to at least one and onehalf times the
wages paid to the individual in the calendar quarter of the individual's base
period in which such the wages were highest, and the
individual has been paid wages for insured work in one calendar quarter of the
individual's base period equal to an amount that is equal to at least three
hundred ninety times the minimum wage prescribed by section 23363 that
is in effect when the individual files a claim for benefits.
(b)Has for a benefit year beginning on or after September
2, 1984, been paid wages for insured work during at least two quarters of the
individual's base period and the amount of such the
wages paid in one quarter would be sufficient to qualify the
individual for the maximum weekly benefit amount payable under this chapter and
the total of the individual's baseperiod wages is equal to or greater
than the taxable limit as specified in section 23622, subsection B,
paragraph 1.
7.Following the beginning date of a benefit year
established under this chapter or the unemployment compensation law of any
other state and prior to before the effective date of a
subsequent benefit year under this chapter, has performed services whether or
not in employment as defined in section 23615 for which wages were
payable in an amount equal to or in excess of eight times the weekly benefit
amount for which the individual is otherwise qualified under section 23779.In
making a determination under this paragraph the department shall use
information available in its records or require the individual to furnish
necessary information within thirty days from
after the date notice is
given that such the information is required.
B.If an unemployed individual cannot establish a
benefit year as defined in section 23609 due to receipt during the base
period of compensation for a temporary total disability pursuant to chapter 6
of this title, or any similar federal law, the individual's base period shall
be the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters immediately preceding
the first day of the calendar week in which the disability
began.Wages previously used to establish a benefit year may not be
reused.This subsection does not apply unless all of the following
occur:
1.The individual has filed a claim for benefits not
later than the fourth calendar week of unemployment after the end of the period
of disability.
2.The claim is filed within two years after the
period of disability begins.
3.The individual meets the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
4.The individual has attempted to return to the
employment where the temporary total disability occurred.
C.If an unemployed individual is a member of the
national guard or other reserve component of the United States armed forces,
the individual shall is not be considered to be either employed or
unavailable for work by reason of the individual's participation in drill,
training or other national guard or reserve activity that occurs on not more
than one weekend per month or in lieu of a weekend drill or the equivalent.
D.The department shall not disqualify an individual
from receiving benefits under this chapter on the basis of the individual's
separation from employment if the individual is a victim of domestic violence
and leaves employment due to a documented case involving domestic violence
pursuant to section 133601 or 133601.02. Benefits paid to an
individual pursuant to this subsection shall not be charged against an
employer's account pursuant to section 23727, subsection G.
E.For the purposes of subsection A, paragraph 6 of
this section, wages shall be counted as "wages for insured work" for
benefit purposes with respect to any benefit year only if that benefit year
begins subsequent to the date on which the employing unit by which those wages
were paid has become an employer subject to this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 41-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1504.Powers and duties; e-verify requirement
A.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, may:
1.Adopt and use a corporate seal.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Enter into contracts as necessary to carry out
the purposes and requirements of this chapter, including intergovernmental
agreements pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 and interagency service
agreements as provided by section 35148.
4.Lease real property and improvements to real
property for the purposes of the authority. Leases by the authority are exempt
from chapter 4, article 7 of this title, relating to management of state
properties.
5.Employ or retain legal counsel and other
consultants as necessary to carry out the purposes of the authority.
6.Develop and use written policies, procedures and
guidelines for the terms and conditions of employing officers and employees of
the authority and may include background checks of appropriate personnel.
B.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, shall:
1.Develop comprehensive long-range strategic
economic plans for this state and submit the plans to the governor.
2.Annually update a strategic economic plan for
submission to the governor.
3.Accept gifts, grants and loans and enter into
contracts and other transactions with any federal or state agency,
municipality, private organization or other source.
C.The authority shall:
1.Assess and collect fees for processing
applications and administering incentives. The board shall adopt the manner of
computing the amount of each fee to be assessed. Within thirty days after
proposing fees for adoption, the chief executive officer shall submit a
schedule of the fees for review by the joint legislative budget committee. It
is the intent of the legislature that a fee shall not exceed one per cent percent of the amount of the incentive.
2.Determine and collect registry fees for the
administration of the allocation of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Such monies
collected by the authority shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in an authority bond fund. Monies in the fund shall be used,
subject to annual appropriation by the legislature, by the authority to
administer the allocations provided in this paragraph and are exempt from the
provisions of section 35190 relating to the lapsing of appropriations.
3.Determine and collect security deposits for the
allocation, for the extension of allocations and for the difference between
allocations and principal amounts of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Security deposits
forfeited to the authority shall be deposited in the state general fund.
4.At the direction of the board, establish and
supervise the operations of full-time or part-time offices in other states and
foreign countries for the purpose of expanding direct investment and export
trade opportunities for businesses and industries in this state if, based on
objective research, the authority determines that the effort would be
beneficial to the economy of this state.
5.Establish a program by which entrepreneurs become
aware of permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to establish, expand
or operate in this state.
6.Be the
state registration agency for apprenticeship functions prescribed by the
federal government.
D.The authority, through the chief executive
officer, may:
1.Contract and incur obligations reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of the authority's activities
and operations to enable the authority to adequately perform its duties.
2.Use monies, facilities or services to provide
matching contributions under federal or other programs that further the
objectives and programs of the authority.
3.Accept gifts, grants, matching monies or direct
payments from public or private agencies or private persons and enterprises for
the conduct of programs that are consistent with the general purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
4.Assess business fees for promotional services
provided to businesses that export products and services from this state. The
fees shall not exceed the actual costs of the services provided.
5.Establish and maintain one or more accounts in
banks or other depositories, for public or private monies of the authority,
from which operational activities, including payroll, vendor and grant
payments, may be conducted. Individual funds that are established by law under
the jurisdiction of the authority may be maintained in separate accounts in
banks or other depositories, but shall not be commingled with any other monies
or funds of the authority.
E.The chief executive officer shall:
1.Hire employees and prescribe the terms and
conditions of their employment as necessary to carry out the purposes of the
authority. The board of directors shall adopt written policies, procedures and
guidelines, similar to those adopted by the department of administration,
regarding officer and employee compensation, observed holidays, leave and
reimbursement of travel expenses and health and accident
insurance.The officers and employees of the authority are exempt
from any laws regulating state employment, including:
(a)Chapter 4, articles 5 and 6 of this title,
relating to state service.
(b)Title 38, chapter 4, article 1 and chapter 5,
article 2, relating to state personnel compensation, leave and retirement.
(c)Title 38, chapter 4, article 2, relating to
reimbursement of state employee expenses.
(d)Title 38, chapter 4, article 4, relating to
health and accident insurance.
2.On a quarterly basis, provide public record data
in a manner prescribed by the department of administration related to the
authority's revenues and expenditures for inclusion in the comprehensive
database of receipts and expenditures of state monies pursuant to section 41725.
F.In addition to any other requirement, in order to
qualify for any grant, loan, reimbursement, tax incentive or other economic
development incentive pursuant to this chapter, an applicant that is an
employer must register with and participate in the e-verify program in
compliance with section 23214. The authority shall require verification
of compliance with this subsection as part of any application process.
G.Notwithstanding any other law, the authority is
subject to chapter 3.1, article 1 of this title, relating to risk management.
H.The authority is exempt from chapter 32, articles
1 and 2 of this title, relating to statewide information technology. The
authority shall adopt policies, procedures and guidelines regarding information
technology.
I.The authority is exempt from state general
accounting and finance practices and rules adopted pursuant to chapter 4,
article 3 of this title, but the board shall adopt written accounting
practices, systems and procedures for the economic and efficient operation of
the authority.
J.The authority is exempt from section 41712,
relating to the installation and maintenance of telecommunications telecommunication systems.
K.The authority may lease or purchase motor
vehicles for use by employees to conduct business activities. The authority is
exempt from section 41803, relating to the state motor vehicle fleet,
and title 38, chapter 3, article 10, relating to vehicle usage and markings.
L.Any tangible or intangible record submitted to or
compiled by the board or the authority in connection with its work, including
the award of monies, is subject to title 39, chapter 1, unless an applicant
shows, or the board or authority determines, that specific information meets
either of the following:
1.If made public, the information would divulge the
applicant's or potential applicant's trade secrets, as defined in section 44401.
2.If made public, the information could potentially
harm the applicant's, the potential
applicant's or this state's competitive position relating to potential business
development opportunities and strategies.
M.The authority is exempt from chapter 25, article
1 of this title, relating to government competition with private enterprise. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
41-1955, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1955.Duty of department concerning employment stabilization, exoffender
rehabilitation, income maintenance and manpower development; research studies
The department, with the advice and aid of its advisory
councils, shall:
1.Take appropriate steps to reduce and prevent
unemployment and dependency, and to assist in alleviating the economic and
social impact of unemployment and dependency on the person and his family.
2.Encourage and assist in the adoption of practical
methods of manpower services, occupational training, vocational counseling and
guidance, vocational rehabilitation and retraining, supportive services and
other such services the director deems appropriate.
3.Research, recommend, advise and assist in the
establishment of community or area facilities, public and private, or both, to
provide an integration of direct services and programs for the development of
the state's manpower and the reduction of dependency.
4.Promote the effective utilization of unemployed
and underutilized workers.
5.Aid in the rehabilitation of employable exoffenders,
in cooperation with the department of corrections.An exoffender,
by accepting the assistance provided for by this article, shall not be
disqualified from receiving further assistance from any other state agency to
which he is legally entitled.
6.Be the
state registration agency for apprenticeship functions prescribed by the
federal government.
6.7.Carry
out and publish the results of research studies for the purpose of this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 41-1993, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1993.Judicial review
A.Any party aggrieved by a decision of the director
is entitled to judicial review of the decision pursuant to title 12, chapter 7,
article 6.
B.Any party aggrieved by a decision on review of the appeals board may file an
application for appeal to the court of appeals with the clerk of the appeals
board within thirty days of
after the date of mailing
or electronic transmission of the decision on review, except as provided in subsection C
of this section.On the filing of an application for appeal, the
clerk of the appeals board shall transmit to the court of appeals the application
for appeal, the original decision of
decisions issued by the
appeals board, and all requests petitions for review and responses, and the decision on review of the appeals
board. The clerk of the appeals board shall also transmit any portions of the
record before the department requested by the court of appeals. The clerk of the appeals board shall not process an
application for appeal unless the appellant has previously filed a timely
request for review under section 23672 or 411992 and a decision
on review has been issued. The court of appeals shall thereafter
grant or deny the application for appeal.If the application is
denied, the decision on review
of the appeals board shall be deemed final, and no further appeal may not be taken.If the application is
granted, the rules for appeals in civil actions shall apply, commencing with
the preparation and transmittal of the complete record before the department
and a record index. No A bond for costs on
appeal or docket fee shall be
is not required.The
department and all parties before the appeals board shall be given notice of
the appeal and an opportunity to appear.All such appeals shall be are limited to the record before the department unless the
court orders otherwise.No
AN issue may not be raised on appeal which that has not been raised in the request petition
for review before the appeals board. The department shall
provide the record for use by the court and by any parties who request
copies.The cost of providing the record is a taxable cost if the
department prevails.The court of appeals may designate one
department of division one to hear all appeals under this section.
C.Any party aggrieved by a decision on review of the appeals board concerning tax
liability, collection or enforcement may appeal to the tax court, as defined in
section 12161, within thirty days after the date of mailing or
electronic transmission of the decision on
review.The appellant need not pay any of the tax,
penalty or interest upheld by the appeals board in its decision on review before initiating, or in order to
maintain an appeal to the tax court pursuant to this section.
D.Any appeal that is taken to tax court pursuant to
this section is subject to the following provisions:
1.No injunction, writ of mandamus or other legal or
equitable process may issue in an action in any court in this state against an
officer of this state to prevent or enjoin the collection of any tax, penalty
or interest.
2.The action shall not begin more than thirty days
after the date of mailing or electronic transmission of the appeals board's
decision on review. Failure
to bring the action within thirty days after the date of mailing or electronic
transmission of the appeals board's decision on review constitutes a waiver of the protest
and a waiver of all claims against this state arising from or based on the
illegality of the tax, penalties and interest at issue.
3.The scope of review of an appeal to tax court
pursuant to this section shall be governed by section 12910, applying
section 23613.01 as that section reads on the date the appeal is filed
to the tax court or as thereafter amended.Either party to the
action may appeal to the court of appeals or supreme court as provided by law.
4.The action
cannot be initiated or maintained unless the appellant has previously filed a
timely request for review under section 23672 or 411992 and a
decision on review has been issued. END_STATUTE

