







REFERENCE TITLE: mobile homes; abandonment procedures







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2257









Introduced by
Representative
  Brophy McGee





AN ACT

amending section
33-1478, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona mobile home parks
residential landlord and tenant act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1478, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
33-1478.Remedies for abandonment; sale;
notice; required registration
A.If the tenant abandons the mobile home unit on a
mobile home space, it is incumbent upon
the landlord to shall locate the legal owner or
lienholder of the mobile home unit within ten days and communicate to him his notify the owner or lienholder of the owner's or
lienholder's liability for any costs incumbered incurred for the mobile home space for such that mobile home unit, including rent and
utilities due and owing.However,
The landlord shall be is entitled to a maximum of
sixty days' rent due prior to
for the period of unpaid rent
immediately preceding notice to the legal owner or lienholder. Any and All costs shall then become the responsibility of the
legal owner or lienholder of the mobile home.The mobile home unit
may not be removed from the mobile home space without a signed written
agreement from the mobile home park landlord, owner or manager showing
clearance for removal, showing all monies due and owning owing
as paid in full,
or showing that an
agreement was reached
with the legal owner or lienholder and
the landlord.
B.For the
purposes of this section, a mobile home is abandoned if either of the following
applies:
1.The
tenant is absent from the mobile home without notice to the landlord for at
least thirty days, rent for the mobile home space is outstanding and unpaid for
at least thirty days, the landlord has delivered a termination notice for
unpaid rent to the most recent tenant and at least seven days have elapsed and
there is no reasonable evidence that the tenant is occupying the mobile home.
2.The
mobile home remains on the mobile home space after entry of a judgment of
eviction.If a judgment of eviction has not been entered, a mobile
HOME IS not abandoned if the mobile home is being serviced under an active
third-party utility provider for electricity, natural gas or water.
C.A
landlord may not begin landlord lien sale procedures on a mobile home pursuant
to this section unless the mobile HOME IS abandoned as prescribed in subsection
B of this section.
D.Notwithstanding
section 33-1480 and if the mobile home remains on the space, a landlord has a
lien on an abandoned mobile home until all monies due to the landlord for the
rental of the space, including utilities, are paid. The landlord's lien is
established by operation of law and is not affected by any transfer or
encumbrance of the mobile home after any monies become due to the
landlord.The lien established pursuant to this subsection does not
apply to the mobile home space tenant's household goods.
E.After
determining that a mobile home has been abandoned, the landlord may serve a
notice on the mobile home's legal owner that states the termination of any
right to keep the home on the space and that demands payment of all monies due
to the landlord for rent and utilities within seven days after receipt of the
notice. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the legal owner's
address as shown in the department of transportation's records and to any other
addresses known to the landlord. At a minimum the notice shall include the
full amount due and necessary to be paid in order to terminate the lien sale
and the date on which that amount is to be paid to the landlord. If all monies
owed are not paid in full and satisfied within seventy-two days after the
notice is sent, the landlord may sell the mobile home as prescribed in section
33-1023. At any time before completion of the sale of the mobile home:
1.If the abandonment
is the result of the entry of a judgment of eviction, the legal owner has the
right to recover possession of the mobile home as provided in section 33-1481,
subsection B.
2.If the
abandonment is not the result of the entry of a judgment of eviction from the
mobile home space, the tenant has the right to reoccupy the mobile home on
payment of the amount due at any time before completion of the sale. The
landlord may not interfere with the tenant's right to reoccupy the mobile home
and the mobile home may not thereafter be treated as abandoned while the mobile
home remains occupied.
3.The
landlord shall give the tenant access to the mobile home at reasonable times
during normal business hours to remove household goods and other personal
possessions, but the tenant may not remove fixtures, built-in appliances,
appurtenances or building components of the mobile home.
F.If the
abandoned mobile home is subject to a lien of record, both of the following
apply:
1.At the
time the notice is sent pursuant to subsection E of this section, the landlord
shall send a notice of abandonment pursuant to subsection A of this section to
the record lienholder at the record lienholder's most recent address as shown
in the records of the department of transportation. The landlord shall include
in the notice of abandonment a description of the mobile home and its vehicle
identification number.
2.At least
ten days before conducting a sale under subsection E of this section, the
landlord shall send notice to any record lienholder on the mobile home that the
lienholder, at any time before the sale, may recover possession of the mobile
home. The record lienholder may pay the amount due to the landlord and, if
paid, shall recover possession of the mobile home. On release of the mobile
home to a record lienholder pursuant to this paragraph, the landlord is not
liable to the tenant or the mobile home owner for the release of the mobile
home.
G.If a sale
is held pursuant to this section, the landlord shall distribute the proceeds of
the sale in the following manner and in the following order:
1.Payment
of all reasonable costs of sale.
2.Satisfaction
of the landlord's lien.
3.Satisfaction
of the valid claims of any record lienholder.
4.On demand
by the former owner within ninety days after the date of the sale, payment of
any remaining proceeds to the former owner of the mobile home.
5.If the
former owner does not claim the balance within ninety days after the date of
the sale, payment of the balance to the department of fire, building and life
safety for deposit into the mobile home relocation fund established by section
33-1476.02, along with submittal of the names of the former owner of the mobile
home, the landlord and the mobile home park in which the mobile home was
located. Within two years after the date of payment of the balance to the
department of fire, building and life safety, if the FORMER owner ESTABLISHES
to the satisfaction of the director of the department of fire, building and
life safety that the former owner has the right to receive the monies, the
DIRECTOR shall pay those monies to the former owner.
H.If a
mobile home is determined in writing by a fire department or other code or
safety enforcement agency to be substantially damaged or destroyed by fire or
another disaster on the mobile home space and unless work is promptly begun to
restore the mobile home to a habitable condition, the landlord shall notify the
lienholder of record and the legal owner of the mobile home to remove the mobile
home from the park within thirty days and shall include with the notice a copy
of the written determination of substantial damage or destruction. If the
mobile home is not removed within thirty days, the landlord may remove or
demolish the mobile home and dispose of it in any lawful manner and shall
notify the department of transportation of the demolition. A landlord who
disposes of a mobile home in compliance with this subsection is not liable to
the owner or any lienholder for the loss of the mobile home.
I.If a
landlord acquires title to a mobile home in a mobile home park pursuant to this
section or otherwise and thereby obtains personal property from the mobile home
that has reasonably apparent value, the landlord:
1.May store
the personal property in the unoccupied mobile home that was acquired by the
landlord or in any other available mobile home, dwelling unit or storage space
owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the landlord on or off the
premises.The landlord shall notify the tenant of the location of
the personal property.
2.Shall
hold the personal property for a period of at least ten days after obtaining
title to the mobile home. The landlord shall use reasonable care in holding
the personal property. If the landlord holds the property for ten days and the
tenant makes no reasonable effort to recover it, the landlord may sell the
property, retain the proceeds and apply them toward the actual and reasonable
costs of disposing of the personal property.Any excess proceeds
shall be mailed to the tenant at the tenant's last known address.
3.If the tenant cannot be found, shall pay the
excess proceeds to the department of fire, building and life safety to be
deposited in the mobile home relocation fund established by section 33-1476.02
and shall submit the names of the former owner of the mobile home, the landlord
and the mobile home park in which the mobile home was located.
J.A tenant
or former tenant who is the legal owner of a mobile home that is the subject of
a landlord lien sale procedure pursuant to this section may petition the
department of fire, building and life safety for a hearing under section
41-2198.01 on the single issue of whether the landlord is in compliance with
this section. The department shall immediately refer the petition to the
office of administrative hearings and on receiving notice of this action, the
landlord shall defer any landlord lien sale on the mobile home pending
determination of the issue. The hearing shall be scheduled at the earliest possible
time on that single issue and the decision of the administrative law judge
shall be issued at the conclusion of the hearing and shall be binding on the
parties.If the decision is in favor of the landlord, the sale may
proceed. If the decision is in favor of the tenant, the pending sale shall be
canceled without prejudice for the landlord to initiate a new landlord lien
sale pursuant to this section. Either party may appeal the decision as a final
administrative decision pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
K.A
landlord who bids at a sale conducted pursuant to this section shall bid in at
least the full amount of the value of the landlord lien and may not bid in less
than that amount in order to create a deficiency balance.
L.A
landlord of a mobile home park that is closed by action of a code enforcement
agency due to infractions by the landlord of health and safety codes has no
rights under this section.
B.M.A landlord shall require each mobile home space renter to
complete a required standardized
registration form shall be filled out by
each mobile home space renter, upon on renting the mobile home space rental, showing the mobile home make, year, serial number and
license number, if any be license number is legally required, and also showing if whether
the mobile home is paid for, if whether
there is a lien on the mobile home, and if so
the name of the lienholder, if any, and who is the
name of the legal owner of the mobile home unit.The
registration cards or forms shall be kept on file with the park management as
long as the mobile home is on the mobile home space within the
park.The owner of the
mobile home shall give notice shall be given to park management within ten
days of after any changes in a new lien, changes of
existing lien or settlement of lien. END_STATUTE

