







REFERENCE TITLE: commercial motor vehicles







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2251









Introduced by
Representative
  Gray





AN ACT

amending sections
28-1099, 28-1100, 28-2239, 28-2267 and 28-3312, arizona revised statutes;
relating to commercial motor vehicles.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-1099, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1099.Single axle load limit; exceptions
A.The gross weight imposed on the highway by the
wheels of any one axle of a vehicle shall not exceed twenty thousand pounds,
except that:
1.The
director may issue a special permit pursuant to section 281103 for the
purpose of moving road machinery that exceeds the maximum weight specified in
this section from job to job within this state and from job to place of
servicing and return within this state.
2.Any
over-the-road bus may exceed the maximum single axle weight limit but shall not
exceed twenty-four thousand pounds. For the purposes of this paragraph, "Over-the-road bus" means
a bus characterized by an elevated passenger deck located over a baggage
compartment.
B.This section shall
does not be construed to
limit in any manner the power of the director and a local authority to issue a
special permit pursuant to section 281103. 
C.For the purposes of this article, the gross
weight imposed on the highway by the wheels of any one axle equals the total
load transmitted to the road by all wheels whose centers are included between
two parallel transverse vertical planes forty inches apart, extending across
the full width of the vehicle. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-1100, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1100.Vehicles and loads; gross weight restrictions; exceptions
A.Except as provided in subsection H of this
section or section 281099,
a person may operate a vehicle on all highways, including a toll facility as
defined in section 287751, subject to the following maximum gross
weights:
1.Twenty thousand pounds, including enforcement
tolerances, on any one axle.
2.Thirtyfour thousand pounds, including
enforcement tolerances, on a tandem axle.
3.Eighty thousand pounds on a vehicle combination
of five axles or more.
4.On a group of two or more consecutive axles, including
any steering or castering axles, an overall gross weight, including enforcement
tolerances, produced by application of the following formula in which W equals
overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles to the
nearest five hundred pounds, L equals distance in feet between the extreme of
any group of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest foot and N equals
number of axles in any group under consideration, except that two consecutive
sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of thirtyfour thousand
pounds each if the overall distance between the first and last axles of the
consecutive sets of tandem axles is thirtysix feet or more if the
overall gross weight does not exceed eighty thousand pounds, including all
enforcement tolerances:
W = 500 (LN/(N1)+12N+36)
B. For the purposes of subsection A of this
section, "tandem axles" means two or more consecutive axles that are
more than forty inches but not more than ninetysix inches apart.
C.This section does not apply to a vehicle and load
that cannot be easily dismantled or divided and that have been issued a special
permit pursuant to section 281103.
D.It is not a defense in a prosecution for a
violation of this section that a vehicle or vehicle combination is registered
for a declared gross weight as defined in section 285431 in excess of
the amount allowed under this section.The department shall not make
an allowance or refund for fees paid for the weight in excess of the amount
allowed under this section.
E.A single vehicle or a single vehicle of a
combination of vehicles shall not be equipped with more than three axles,
including the front steering axle, unless the additional axles are steering
axles or castering axles. The limitation on the number of axles provided in
this subsection does not apply to a vehicle operated with a permit issued
pursuant to section 281103.
F.A vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped
with one or more variable load axles shall have the pressure control preset and
located outside of the cab so that the operator of the vehicle cannot vary the
weight carried on the variable load axle or axles during transport of a
load.The actuating control that raises or lowers the axle or axles
may be located inside the cab for safety purposes.This actuating
control must completely raise or completely lower the axle or axles when
activated.
G.This section does not apply to a truck that meets
all of the following requirements and for which a special permit has been
issued pursuant to section 281103:
1.Is equipped with a conveyor bed.
2.Is used solely as a fiber and forage module
mover.
3.Does not exceed fortyeight feet in length.
4.Is only operated each year from August 1 through
January 30, unless the director extends the period of use.
H.The gross weight of a heavy-duty vehicle that is
equipped with idle reduction technology and the gross weight imposed on the
highway by the wheels of any one axle or axle group of the vehicle may exceed
the weight limitation specified in subsection A of this section by not more
than four hundred pounds or the weight of the idle reduction technology,
whichever is less. This subsection only applies if the heavy-duty vehicle
operator, on request, proves by written certification the weight of the idle
reduction technology and, by demonstration or certification, that the idle
reduction technology is fully functional at all times.For the
purposes of this subsection, "heavy-duty vehicle" and "idle reduction
technology" have the same meanings prescribed in 42 United States Code
section 16104a. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-2239, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2239.Temporary proportional registrations; fee
A.The department may sell temporary proportional
registrations to motor carriers that are registering under this article. Motor
carriers may use temporary proportional registrations for vehicles that are
added to an existing fleet or in lieu of lost registrations pending receipt of
permanent or replacement registrations.
B.The cost of a temporary proportional registration
is one dollar, and the registration is valid for ninety
sixty days. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 28-2267, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2267.Temporary registrations; fee
A.The department may sell temporary registrations
to motor carriers with existing fleets that are registered under this
article.Temporary registrations may be used for vehicles that are
added to an existing fleet or in lieu of lost registrations pending the receipt
of permanent or replacement registrations.
B.The temporary registration fee is one
dollar.The temporary registration is valid for ninety
sixty days. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 28-3312, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3312.Mandatory disqualification of commercial driver licenses;
definition
A.The department shall disqualify a person who is required to have a
commercial driver license, or who is a commercial driver
license holder or who is a commercial
instruction permit holder from driving a commercial motor vehicle
as follows:
1.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section and except as otherwise provided in this subsection, for at least one
year if a person:
(a)Refuses a test in violation of section 281321.
(b)Is convicted of a first violation of any of the
following:
(i)Driving a commercial motor vehicle under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance or while having an
alcohol concentration of 0.04 or more.
(ii)Leaving the scene of an accident involving a
motor vehicle driven by the person.
(iii)Using a motor vehicle in the commission of a
felony.
(iv)A violation of chapter 4, article 3 of this
title while operating a noncommercial motor vehicle.
(v)Driving a commercial motor vehicle while, as a
result of prior violations of this title committed while operating a commercial
motor vehicle, the person's commercial driver license is revoked, suspended or
canceled or the person is disqualified from operating a commercial motor
vehicle.
(vi)Causing a fatality through the negligent
operation of a commercial motor vehicle, including a conviction of
manslaughter, homicide or negligent homicide resulting from operation of a
motor vehicle.
2.For at least three years, if the person is
convicted of any of the violations prescribed in paragraph 1 of this subsection
and the violation occurred while the person was transporting a hazardous
material in the quantity and under the circumstances that require placarding of
the transport vehicle under the department's safety rules pursuant to chapter
14 of this title.
3.For the life of the person, if the person is
convicted of two or more violations of any of the offenses prescribed in
paragraph 1 of this subsection or of any combination of those offenses arising
from two or more separate incidents.The department shall consider
only offenses committed from and after December 31, 1989 in applying this paragraph.
4.Permanently if the person is convicted of using
any motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the manufacture,
distribution or dispensing of a controlled substance or possession with intent
to manufacture, distribute or dispense a controlled substance.
5.For at least sixty consecutive days, if the
person is convicted of two serious traffic violations committed in a motor
vehicle arising from separate incidents occurring within a three year period
from the date of the violation.
6.For at least one hundred twenty days served in
addition to any other disqualification, if the person is convicted of a third
or subsequent serious traffic violation committed in a motor vehicle arising
from separate incidents occurring within a three year period from the date of
the violation.
7.For at
least sixty consecutive days, if the department determines that the person
falsified information or documentation as part of the licensing process.
8.For at
least one year, if the person is convicted of fraud related to the issuance of
a commercial instruction permit or commercial driver license.
B.Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, a person required to have a commercial driver license or a commercial
driver license holder who is found responsible for violating an outofservice
order pursuant to section 285241 is disqualified from driving a
commercial motor vehicle as follows:
1.For a period of one hundred eighty days if the
person is found responsible for a first violation of an outofservice
order.
2.For a period of two years if the person is found
responsible for a second violation of any outofservice order
during any ten year period arising from separate incidents.
3.For a period of three years if the person is
found responsible for a third or subsequent violation of any outofservice
order during any ten year period arising from separate incidents.
C.A person required to have a commercial driver
license or a commercial driver license holder who is found responsible for
violating an outofservice order pursuant to section 285241
while transporting hazardous materials or while operating a commercial motor
vehicle designed or used to transport sixteen or more passengers, including the
driver, is disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle as follows:
1.For a period of one hundred eighty days if the
person is found responsible for a first violation of an outofservice
order.
2.For a period of three years if the person is
found responsible for a second or subsequent violation of any outofservice
order during any ten year period arising from separate incidents.
D.A person required to have a commercial driver
license or a commercial driver license holder who is convicted of or found
responsible for violating any federal, state or local railroad grade crossing
law, ordinance or regulation is disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle as follows:
1.For a period of sixty days if a person is
convicted of or found responsible for a first violation.
2.For a period of one hundred twenty days if a
person is convicted of or found responsible for a second violation during any
three year period.
3.For a period of one year if a person is convicted
of or found responsible for a third or subsequent violation during any three
year period.
E.If a federal agency determines that a commercial
motor vehicle licensee is driving in a manner that constitutes an imminent
hazard, the department, on receipt of notification by the federal government,
shall disqualify the driver for a period not to exceed one year.The
disqualification shall run concurrently with any other disqualification imposed
on the driver. For the purposes of this subsection, "imminent
hazard" means the existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a substantial
endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur before the
reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding to decrease the
risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
F.The department shall keep records of findings of
responsibility for a civil traffic violation and of conviction of any moving
criminal traffic violation for a commercial driver licensee for violations in
any type of motor vehicle and for a person required to have a commercial driver
license if the violations arise from the operation of a commercial motor
vehicle. The department shall make the records available to other states, the
United States secretary of transportation, the driver and any motor carrier or
prospective motor carrier or the motor carrier's designated agent within ten
days after receiving a report of a conviction or finding of responsibility in
this state or receipt of a report of a conviction or finding of responsibility
or disqualification received from another state.
G.Disqualification for a serious traffic violation
committed by a commercial driver license holder while operating a noncommercial
motor vehicle applies only if the conviction results in the revocation,
cancellation or suspension of the person's commercial driver license or
noncommercial driver license.
H.The department may adopt rules establishing
guidelines and conditions under which the department may reduce a
disqualification for life pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section
to a disqualification of at least ten years. If a person's disqualification is
reduced pursuant to rules adopted pursuant to this subsection and the person is
subsequently convicted of a violation described in subsection A, paragraph 1 of
this section, the person is permanently disqualified from driving a commercial
vehicle and is not eligible to apply for a reduction of the disqualification
pursuant to rules adopted pursuant to this subsection.
I.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the beginning date of the disqualification shall be ten days after the date the department
receives the report of conviction or finding of responsibility.
J.For the purposes of this section, "serious
traffic violation" means a conviction or finding of responsibility for any
of the following:
1.Excessive speeding involving a single offense for
a speed of fifteen miles per hour or more above the posted speed limit.
2.Reckless driving as provided by section 28693.
3.Aggressive driving as provided by section 28695.
4.Racing as defined in section 28708.
5.Improper or erratic traffic lane changes as
provided by section 28729.
6.Following the vehicle ahead too closely as
provided by section 28730.
7.A violation of this title that is connected with
a fatal traffic accident.
8.Driving a commercial motor vehicle if the person
has not been issued a valid commercial driver license pursuant to this chapter.
9.Driving a commercial motor vehicle without a
commercial driver license in the person's possession.
10.Driving a commercial motor vehicle without
having a valid endorsement for the type of commercial motor vehicle or motor
vehicle combination being operated. END_STATUTE

