







REFERENCE TITLE: sovereign authority;
  commandeering; prohibition; exception








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2201









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe, Kern, Leach: Barton, Borrelli, Campbell, Cobb, Finchem, Lawrence,
  Livingston, Mitchell, Rivero, Shope





AN ACT

amending title 1,
chapter 2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 1-272;
relating to sovereign authority.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 1, chapter 2, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 1-272, to read:
START_STATUTE1-272.Sovereign authority; commandeering; prohibition;
exception; attorney general; notice; definitions
A.Pursuant
to the sovereign authority of this state and article II, section 3,
Constitution of Arizona, this state and all political subdivisions of this
state are prohibited from using any personnel or financial resources to
enforce, administer or cooperate with any action of the United States
government that constitutes commandeering.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, the legislature may enact legislation, with the
approval of the governor, that allows this state and all political subdivisions
of this state to use any personnel or financial resources to enforce,
administer or cooperate with any action of the United States government that
constitutes commandeering.
C.The
attorney general shall annually notify the United States department of justice
of the provisions of this section.
D.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Action"
includes:
(a)An executive order issued by the
president of the United States.
(b)A rule, regulation or policy
directive issued by an agency of the United States.
(c)A ruling issued by a court of
the United States.
(d)A law or other measure enacted
by the Congress of the United States.
2."Commandeering"
includes any action that either:
(a)Is not in pursuance of the
Constitution of the United States and that has not been affirmed by a vote of
the Congress of the United States and signed into law as prescribed by the
Constitution of the United States.
(b)Exceeds the powers of the
Congress of United States enumerated in the Constitution of the United States. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Legislative findings
A.Article I, section 1, Constitution of the United
States, provides that "[a]ll legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and
House of Representatives."No other branch of the federal
government has the constitutional authority to legislate.
B.United States Supreme
Court Justice Scalia wrote in his dissent in King v. Burwell (2015)
about the "the American people's decision
to give Congress "[a]ll legislative Powers" enumerated in the
Constitution. Art. I, 1. They made Congress, not this Court, responsible for
both making laws and mending them."
C.Under the
anti-commandeering doctrine, the United States Supreme Court has ruled
repeatedly that Congress does not have the authority to force the states, or
officials of the states, to do almost anything. Examples of these rulings
include Prigg v. Pennsylvania (1842), New York v. United States
(1992), Printz v. United States (1997) and National Federation of
Independent Business v. Sebelius (2012).
D.In his Farewell
Address, President George Washington stressed that "it is
important, likewise, that the habits of thinking in a free country should
inspire caution in those entrusted with its
administration, to confine themselves within their respective constitutional
spheres, avoiding in the exercise of the powers of one department to encroach
upon another.The spirit of encroachment tends to consolidate the
powers of all the departments in one, and thus to create, whatever the form of
government, a real despotism. ... The necessity of reciprocal
checks in the exercise of political power, by dividing and distributing it into
different depositaries, and constituting each the guardian of the public weal
against invasions by the others, has been evinced by experiments ancient and
modern; some of them in our country and under our own eyes. To preserve them
must be as necessary as to institute them. If, in the opinion of the people,
the distribution or modification of the constitutional powers be in any
particular wrong, let it be corrected by an amendment in the way which the
Constitution designates. But let there be no change by usurpation; for though
this, in one instance, may be the instrument of good, it is the customary
weapon by which free governments are destroyed."

