







REFERENCE TITLE: committee of reference; vacancy;
  replacement







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2242









Introduced by
Representative
  Thorpe





AN ACT

amending section
41-2954, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to committees of reference,


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2954, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2954.Committees of reference; membership; performance review
reports; hearings; recommendations; subpoena powers
A.Each standing committee of both legislative
houses shall appoint a subcommittee of five members.Not more than
three appointees of each house shall be of the same political
party.The subcommittees shall jointly constitute a committee of
reference in their respective subject matter areas. A standing committee may appoint a person to fill a vacancy
on a committee of reference by filing a letter with the secretary of the senate
or the chief clerk of the house of representatives. 
B.After receipt of the preliminary sunset review
report, the committee of reference shall hold at least one public hearing to
receive testimony from the public and from the officials of the agency
involved. The agency involved shall prepare a presentation for the first
public meeting that addresses the elements of the written statement required by
subsectionF of this section.
C.The committee of reference shall hold public
hearings for the following purposes:
1.To determine the actual need of the agency to
regulate or direct the particular activity.
2.To determine the extent to which the statutory
requirements of the agency are necessary and are being met.
3.To receive testimony from the public as to the
relationship of the agency with the public.
4.To receive testimony from the executive director
or other head of the agency as to reasons for the continuation of the agency.
D.The committee of reference shall consider but not
be limited to the following factors in determining the need for continuation or
termination of each agency:
1.The objective and purpose in establishing the
agency and the extent to which the objective and purpose are met by private
enterprises in other states.
2.The extent to which the agency has met its
statutory objective and purpose and the efficiency with which it has operated.
3.The extent to which the agency serves the entire
state rather than specific interests.
4.The extent to which rules adopted by the agency
are consistent with the legislative mandate.
5.The extent to which the agency has encouraged
input from the public before adopting its rules and the extent to which it has
informed the public as to its actions and their expected impact on the public.
6.The extent to which the agency has been able to
investigate and resolve complaints that are within its jurisdiction.
7.The extent to which the attorney general or any other
applicable agency of state government has the authority to prosecute actions
under the enabling legislation.
8.The extent to which agencies have addressed
deficiencies in their enabling statutes that prevent them from fulfilling their
statutory mandate.
9.The extent to which changes are necessary in the
laws of the agency to adequately comply with the factors listed in this
subsection.
10.The extent to which the termination of the
agency would significantly affect the public health, safety or welfare.
11.The extent to which the level of regulation
exercised by the agency compares to other states and is appropriate and whether
less or more stringent levels of regulation would be appropriate.
12.The extent to which the agency has used private
contractors in the performance of its duties as compared to other states and
how more effective use of private contractors could be accomplished.
13.The extent to which the agency potentially
creates unexpected negative consequences that might require additional review
by the committee of reference, including increasing the price of goods,
affecting the availability of services, limiting the abilities of individuals
and businesses to operate efficiently and increasing the cost of government.
E.The committee of reference shall deliver the
final sunset review report of its recommendations to the committee, the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the
governor, the auditor general and the affected agency by December 1.Such The recommendations shall include one of the
following:
1.That the state agency be continued.
2.That the state agency be revised or consolidated.
3.That the state agency be terminated pursuant to
this chapter.
F.The final sunset review report by the committee
of reference shall also include a written statement prepared by the agency
involved that contains:
1.An identification of the problem or the needs
that the agency is intended to address.
2.A statement, to the extent practicable, in
quantitative and qualitative terms, of the objectives of such agency and its
anticipated accomplishments.
3.An identification of any other agencies having
similar, conflicting or duplicate objectives, and an explanation of the manner
in which the agency avoids duplication or conflict with other such agencies.
4.An assessment of the consequences of eliminating
the agency or of consolidating it with another agency.
G.The committee shall oversee the preparation of
any proposed legislation to implement the recommendations of the committees of
reference and is responsible for the introduction of such legislation.
H.If an agency is continued, it is not necessary to
reappoint any member of the governing board or commission of the
agency.Such members are eligible to complete their original terms
without reappointment or reconfirmation.
I.Each committee of reference shall have the power
of legislative subpoena pursuant to chapter 7, article 4 of this title. END_STATUTE

