







REFERENCE TITLE: prohibited money transfers; information
  sharing








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2223









Introduced by
Representative
  Lawrence





AN ACT

AMENDING TITLE
35, CHAPTER 1, ARTICLE 3, ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES, BY ADDING SECTION 35153;
RELATING TO MONEY TRANSFERS.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 35, chapter 1, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 35-153, to read:
START_STATUTE35-153.Withholding of state shared revenue from cities, towns and
counties that restrict information gathering and sharing; attorney general
determination; notice
A.A city,
town or county may not have in effect any law, policy or procedure that does
any of the following:
1.Prohibits
or in any way restricts any government entity or official from sending to, or
receiving from, the United States immigration and naturalization service
information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or
unlawful, of any person.
2.Prohibits
a city, town or county law enforcement officer or agency from gathering
information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or
unlawful, of any individual and from:
(a)Sending the information to, or
requesting or receiving the information from, the United States immigration and
naturalization service.
(b)Maintaining the information.
(c)Exchanging the information with
any other federal, state or local government entity.
3.allows
the city, town or county to issue a government identification card or any other
document that purports to authorize a person's presence in this state if the
person's presence in this state is in violation of federal immigration law or
that attempts in any way to prevent the person from being removed from this
state by the federal government.
B.If the attorney general determines that a
city, town or county is in violation of subsection A of this section, the
attorney general shall notify the city, town or county of the violation and
that the city, town or county has sixty days to comply with subsection A of
this section.
C.If the attorney general determines that the
city, town or county has failed to comply with subsection A of this section
within sixty days after a notice has been issued pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the attorney general may direct the state treasurer, to the
extent not otherwise expressly prohibited by law, to withhold the monies due to
the city, town or county from the next succeeding distribution of monies
pursuant to section 42-5029. In the case of a city or town that is in
violation of subsection A of this section, the state treasurer shall also
withhold the monies due to the city or town from the next succeeding
distribution of monies pursuant to section 43-206. The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold monies until the attorney general determines that the
city, town or county is not in violation of subsection A of this
section.the state treasurer shall redistribute the monies withheld
pursuant to this subsection among all other cities, towns and counties in
proportion to their population as provided by section 425029, subsection
d and in the case of a city or town, as provided by section 43206,
subsection b. If the attorney general determines that the city, town or county
is not in violation of subsection A of this section, the attorney general shall
direct the state treasurer to restore the next succeeding distribution of
monies pursuant to sections 425029 and 43206. A city, town or
county is not entitled to the payment of any monies that were withheld pursuant
to this subsection. END_STATUTE

