







REFERENCE TITLE: large electronics recycling program







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2284









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Larkin: Clark, Fernandez, Hale, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending title
49, chapter 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 11; relating to
electronic devices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 49, chapter 4, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 11, to read:
ARTICLE 11. LARGE ELECTRONICS RECYCLING
PROGRAM
START_STATUTE49-891.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Collector"
means an entity that collects covered electronic devices as part of a
manufacturer program.
2."Covered
electronic device":
(a)Means:
(i)a computer monitor of any type
having a viewable area greater than four inches measured diagonally.
(ii)a desktop computer or portable
computer.
(iii)a television of any type having
a viewable area greater than four inches measured diagonally.
(b)Does not include:
(i)any part of a motor vehicle.
(ii)any part of a larger piece of equipment
designed and intended for use in an industrial, commercial or medical setting,
such as diagnostic, monitoring or control equipment.
(iii)telephones or personal digital
assistants of any type unless the telephone or personal digital assistant contains
a viewable area greater than four inches measured diagonally.
(iv)any part of a clothes washer,
clothes dryer, refrigerator, freezer, microwave oven, conventional oven or
range, dishwasher, room air conditioner, dehumidifier or air purifier.
3."Covered
entity" means any household or business.
4."Household"
means an occupant of a single detached dwelling unit or a single unit of a
multiple dwelling unit located in this state who has used a covered electronic
device at a dwelling unit primarily for personal use.
5."Manufacturer":
(a)Means any person that either:
(i)Manufactures covered electronic
devices under a brand that the person owns or is licensed to use.
(ii)Sells covered electronic devices
manufactured by others under a brand that the seller owns.
(iii)Manufactures covered electronic
devices without affixing a brand.
(iv)Manufactures covered electronic
devices to which the person affixes a brand that the person does not own.
(v)On whose account covered
electronic devices manufactured outside the United States are imported into the
United States.
(b)Does not include:
(i)A person with a license to
manufacture covered electronic devices for delivery exclusively to or at the
order of the licensor.
(ii)A small business as defined in
section 411001.
6."Manufacturer
program" means a statewide plan for collecting, transporting and recycling
covered electronic devices that is provided by a manufacturer or manufacturers
pursuant to section 49-891.02.
7."Portable
computer" means any of the following that has a viewable area greater than
four inches measured diagonally and that can be carried as one unit by an
individual:
(a)A laptop computer.
(b)A notebook computer.
(c)A notepad computer.
8."Recycling":
(a)Means either of the following:
(i)Processing through
disassembling, dismantling, shredding, transforming or remanufacturing covered
electronic devices, components and by-products into usable or marketable raw
materials or products in a manner such that the original products may lose
their identity.
(ii)Smelting materials from
components removed from covered electronic devices to recover metals for reuse
in conformance with applicable laws and rules.
(b)Does not include landfill
disposal or incineration of covered electronic devices or energy recovery or
energy generation by means of combusting covered electronic devices, components
and by-products with or without other waste.
9."Retailer"
means a person that sells, rents or leases through sales outlets, catalogs or
the internet covered electronic devices to a household and not for resale in
any form.
10."Sale"
or "sell" means any transfer for consideration of title or of the
right to use, by lease or sales contract, including transactions conducted
through sales outlets, catalogs or the internet or any other similar electronic
means either inside or outside of this state, by a person that conducts the
transaction and controls delivery of a covered electronic device to a consumer
in this state, but does not include a manufacturer's or distributor's wholesale
transaction with a distributor or retailer. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.01.Prohibition on sale; registration with department; fees
A.Beginning
January 1, 2017, a manufacturer or retailer may not sell or offer for sale any
covered electronic device in or for delivery in this state unless both of the
following apply:
1.The
covered electronic device is labeled with a brand and the label is permanently
affixed and readily visible.
2.The brand
is included in the plan that is filed with the department pursuant to section
49-891.02.
B.On or
before January 1, 2017 and each year thereafter, a manufacturer of covered
electronic devices sold or offered for sale in this state shall register with the department, for
a period to cover the upcoming calendar year, on a form provided by the
department.
C.A
manufacturer of covered electronic devices sold or offered for sale in this
state shall pay to the department an annual registration fee determined by the
department by rule.
D.If a
manufacturer ceases to manufacture, sell or import covered electronic devices
and covered electronic devices manufactured, sold or imported by the manufacturer
are collected for recycling under a manufacturer program, the manufacturer
shall register with the department and pay a registration fee determined by the
department by rule.
E.A
manufacturer that begins to sell or offer for sale covered electronic devices
to households after January 1, 2017 and that has not filed a registration
pursuant to this section shall submit a registration to the department within
ten days after beginning to sell or offer for sale covered electronic devices
to households.
F.A
manufacturer shall update its registration within ten days after a change in
the manufacturer's brands of covered electronic devices sold or offered for
sale to households. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.02.Manufacturer program; plan
A.A
manufacturer shall submit a plan to the department at the time of payment of
the annual registration fee required under section 49-891.01. The
manufacturer's plan must describe how the manufacturer will:
1.Finance,
manage and conduct a statewide program to collect covered electronic devices
from covered entities in this state.
2.Provide
for environmentally sound management practices to collect, transport and
recycle covered electronic devices.
3.Provide
for advertising and promotion of collection opportunities statewide and on a
regular basis.
4.Include
convenient service in every county in this state and at least one collection
site for any city with a population of at least fifty thousand
persons.Convenient service may include one or more periodic
opportunities to drop off covered electronic devices at one or more locations.
Convenient service does not require household pickup of covered electronic
devices. A collection site for a county may be the same as a collection site
for a city in the county. Collection sites shall be staffed and open to the
public at a frequency adequate to meet the needs of the area being served. A
program may provide collection service jointly with another program.
B.The plan
must include information on how and where to return the manufacturer's covered
electronic devices. The manufacturer:
1.Shall
include collection, recycling and reuse information on the manufacturer's
publicly available website.
2.Shall
provide collection, recycling and reuse information to the department.
3.May
include collection, recycling and reuse information in the packaging for or in
other materials that accompany the manufacturer's covered electronic devices when
the device is sold.
C.Information
regarding collection, recycling and reuse that is on a manufacturer's publicly
available website does not constitute a determination by the department that
the manufacturer's recovery plan or actual practices are in compliance with
this article or any other law.
D.A
manufacturer shall:
1.Meet or
exceed the requirements for collection sites described in subsection A of this
section.
2.Provide
for collection, transportation and recycling of covered electronic devices for
covered entities free of charge, except that a manufacturer that provides
premium service for a covered entity may charge for the additional cost of that
premium service. Premium service may include pickup service at individually
scheduled times and locations and may include minimum requirements for the
quantity of covered electronic devices to be picked up.
3.Implement
the plan required under this section.
E.A group
of manufacturers may choose to implement a manufacturer program as one entity.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.03.Prohibition on consumer fees; exception
A.Except as
authorized in subsection B of this section, a manufacturer program or a
collector participating in a manufacturer program may not charge a fee to
covered entities for the collection, transportation or recycling of covered
electronic devices.
B.A
collector that provides a premium service to a covered entity may charge for
the additional cost of providing the premium service. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.04.Duties of department; rules
The department shall:
1.Maintain
and make available on its website, which must be updated on or before the first
day of each calendar quarter after July 1, 2017, A list of registered
manufacturers and their brands that identifies which manufacturers are in
compliance with this article.
2.Review
and approve manufacturer plans that comply with section 49891.02 and
that are submitted annually by manufacturers.
3.Advertise
and promote collection opportunities statewide and on a regular basis.
4.Review
each registration and notify the manufacturer of any information required by
this section that is omitted from the registration. within thirty days after
receipt of a notification from the department, the manufacturer shall submit a
revised registration providing the information noted by the department.
5.Maintain
and update the website registration information at least each calendar
quarter. The website shall contain prominent language stating that the law
requiring registration is directed at household equipment and the
manufacturers' brands list is not a list of manufacturers that are qualified to
sell to industrial, commercial or other markets that are identified as exempt
from the requirements.
6.Maintain
on its website information on collection opportunities for covered electronic
devices, including collection site locations and hours. The information must be
made available in a printable format for retailers.
7.Beginning
December 31, 2018 and biennially thereafter, compile information from
manufacturers and issue a report to the legislature regarding the program
established pursuant to this article.
8.Adopt
rules as necessary to implement this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.05.Covered electronic devices fund
A.The covered
electronic devices fund is established. The director shall administer the
fund.The fund consists of monies from the following sources:
1.Fees
collected by the department pursuant to this article.
2.Gifts,
grants and donations.
3.Legislative
appropriations.
4.Until
July 1, 2019, monies from the recycling fund pursuant to section 49-837,
subsection B, except that no more than five hundred thousand dollars from the
recycling fund may be transferred to the covered electronic devices fund in any
fiscal year.
B.On notice
from the department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the
fund as provided in section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
C.Monies in
the fund are continuously appropriated to the department and may be used only
to pay the costs of implementing and enforcing this article.
D.Monies in
the fund shall be used for the following purposes:
1.For all
reasonable and necessary costs to implement this article.
2.For the
reasonable and necessary costs of administering the fund. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.06.Enforcement
A manufacturer or
retailer that fails to comply with this article is subject to enforcement under
article 5 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE49-891.07.Program termination
The program established
by this article ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 41-3102. END_STATUTE

