







REFERENCE TITLE: attorney regulation; assessments;
  membership dues







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2221









Introduced by
Representatives
  Kern: Finchem, Lawrence, Mitchell, Thorpe





AN ACT

amending title
12, chapter 1, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 12119.06;
relating to the supreme court.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 12, chapter 1, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 12-119.06, to read:
START_STATUTE12-119.06.Regulation of attorneys; mandatory assessments; voluntary
membership dues; uses; public records
A.To the
extent provided by the arizona constitution, All regulatory functions relating
to the practice of law, including the regulation of attorneys in this state,
are within the authority of the supreme court.
B.As a
condition of practicing law in this state, the supreme court may collect A
mandatory assessment from each attorney to support the court's regulatory
functions. The supreme court may use mandatory assessment monies only for the
following regulatory functions for attorneys who are under the active
supervision of the supreme court:
1.Admitting
an attorney to the practice of law.
2.Maintaining
attorney records.
3.Enforcing
the ethical rules that govern attorneys.
4.Regulating
any continuing legal education mandates for attorneys.
5.Maintaining
attorney trust account records.
6.preventing
the unauthorized practice of law.
C.The state
bar of arizona may establish, collect and use voluntary membership dues from an
attorney for any lawful activity that is not included in subsection B of this
section.
D.the
collection of mandatory assessments must be separate from The collection of any
Voluntary membership dues.the supreme court shall incorporate any
mandatory assessment monies collected into its budget. Any other entity in
this state may not collect mandatory assessment from an attorney.
E.If the
state bar of Arizona accepts any mandatory assessment monies collected by the
supreme court to carry out a regulatory function listed in subsection B of this
section, the state bar of Arizona shall:
1.disclose
and make available records and other matters in the same manner as is required
of a public body pursuant to title 39, chapter 1.
2.On or
before December 31 of each year that mandatory assessment monies are accepted,
make available to the public a list of all of the expenditures that were made
with the mandatory assessment monies and provide an independent audit of the
expenditures to ensure that all expenditures were in furtherance of the
regulatory functions listed in subsection B of this section. END_STATUTE

