







REFERENCE TITLE: teenage drivers; communication devices
  prohibited







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2241









Introduced by
Representatives
  Fann, Cardenas, Hale, Meyer, Senator Sherwood: Representatives Bowers, Brophy
  McGee, Friese, Gabaldn, Lawrence, McCune Davis, Mendez, Wheeler





AN ACT

amending sections
28-3154 and 28-3174, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to driver licenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
28-3154, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3154.Instruction permit for a class D or G license
A.A person who is at
least fifteen years and six months of age may apply to the department for an
instruction permit for a class D or G license. The department may issue an
instruction permit to the applicant after the applicant successfully passes all
parts of the examination other than the driving test.
B.The instruction
permit entitles the permittee to drive a motor vehicle requiring a class D or G
license on the public highways for twelve months when both of the following
conditions are met:
1.The permittee has the
permit in the permittee's immediate possession.
2.The permittee is
accompanied by a person who has a class A, B, C or D license, who is at least
twentyone years of age and who occupies a seat beside the permittee.
C.A permittee may not drive a motor vehicle
while using a wireless communication device for any reason except during an
emergency in which stopping the motor vehicle is impossible or will create an
additional emergency or safety hazard.A peace officer may not stop
or issue a citation to a person operating a motor vehicle on a highway in this
state for a violation of this subsection unless the peace officer has
reasonable cause to believe there is another alleged violation of a motor
vehicle law of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
28-3174, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3174.Class G driver licenses; restrictions; civil penalties;
motorcycles
A.A person who is under
eighteen years of age may apply to the department for a class G driver license
if all of the following apply:
1.The person is at
least sixteen years of age.
2.The person has a
valid instruction permit issued pursuant to this article and the person has
held the instruction permit for at least six months, except that this
requirement does not apply to a person who has a currently valid driver license
issued by another jurisdiction.
3.Either:
(a)The person has
satisfactorily completed a driver education program that is approved by the
department of transportation.If the driver education program is
offered by a public high school, the program shall be approved by the
department of transportation in consultation with the department of education.
(b)A custodial parent
or guardian of the person certifies in writing to the department that the
applicant has completed at least thirty hours of supervised driving practice
and that at least ten of the required practice hours were at night.
B.If the applicant
successfully passes the examination prescribed in section 283164 and
satisfies the requirements prescribed in subsection A of this section, the
department may issue a class G driver license to the applicant.
C.Except as provided in
subsection D of this section, a class G driver license entitles the licensee to
drive a motor vehicle that requires a class G license on the public highways.
D.Except as provided in
subsection J K of this section, for the first six
months that a class G licensee holds the license, the licensee shall not drive
a motor vehicle on a public highway from 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. unless either:
1.The licensee is
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian who has a class A, B, C or D license
and who occupies a seat beside the class G licensee.
2.The licensee is
driving directly to or from a sanctioned school sponsored activity, the
licensee's place of employment, a sanctioned religious activity or a family
emergency.
E.Except as provided in
this subsection and subsection J K of this section, for the
first six months that a class G licensee holds the license, the licensee shall
not drive a motor vehicle on a public highway at any time if the licensee is
driving a motor vehicle containing more than one passenger under the age of
eighteen. This restriction does not:
1.Prohibit the licensee
from driving a motor vehicle containing passengers under the age of eighteen if
the passengers are the licensee's siblings.
2.Apply if the licensee
is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian who has a class A, B, C or D
license and who occupies a seat beside the class G licensee.
F.Except as provided in subsection K of this section,
for the first six months that a class G licensee holds the license, the
licensee may not drive a motor vehicle while using a wireless communication
device for any reason except during an emergency in which stopping the motor
vehicle is impossible or will create an additional emergency or safety hazard.
F.G.A
peace officer shall not stop or issue a citation to a person operating a motor
vehicle on a highway in this state for a violation of subsection D, or E or F
of this section unless the peace officer has reasonable cause to believe there
is another alleged violation of a motor vehicle law of this state.
G.H.If
a licensee is found responsible for violating subsection D, or E or F of
this section, the licensee:
1.For a first
violation, is subject to a maximum civil penalty of seventy-five dollars. The
department shall extend the restriction prescribed by subsection D, or E or F of
this section for thirty days, or if the restriction prescribed by subsection D, or E or F of
this section is complete, the thirty day restriction begins on the department's
receipt of the report of the finding of responsibility.
2.For a second
violation, is subject to a maximum civil penalty of one hundred dollars. The
department shall extend the restriction prescribed by subsection D, or E or F of
this section for sixty days, or if the restriction prescribed by subsection D, or E or F of
this section is complete, the sixty day restriction begins on the department's
receipt of the report of the finding of responsibility.If at the
time of the second violation the licensee is subject to an extension of the six
month period pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, the extensions run
consecutively.
3.For a third or
subsequent violation, is subject to a maximum civil penalty of one hundred
dollars. On the department's receipt of the report of the finding of responsibility,
the department shall suspend the licensee's driving privilege for thirty days.
If the licensee also has a suspension resulting from a moving civil traffic
violation or a moving criminal traffic offense as prescribed by section 283321,
the suspensions run consecutively.
H.I.A
citation issued for violating subsection D of this section shall be dismissed
if the licensee to whom the citation was issued produces any of the following
evidence to the appropriate court officer on or before the date and time
specified on the citation for court appearance and in a manner specified by the
court:
1.A written, notarized
letter from the parent or legal guardian of the licensee that the licensee was
going to or returning from a sanctioned school sponsored activity, the
licensee's place of employment, a sanctioned religious activity or a family
emergency.
2.A written, notarized
letter from a representative of the sanctioned school sponsored activity
certifying that the licensee was returning from the school activity.
3.A written, notarized
letter from the licensee's employer certifying that the licensee was returning
from the licensee's place of employment.
4.A written, notarized
letter from a representative of the sanctioned religious activity certifying
that the licensee was returning from the religious activity.
I.J.A
citation issued for violating subsection E of this section shall be dismissed
if the licensee to whom the citation was issued produces a written, notarized
letter from the parent or legal guardian of the licensee to the appropriate
court officer on or before the date and time specified on the citation for
court appearance and in a manner specified by the court that states the
passengers in the vehicle with the licensee at the time of the violation were
the siblings of the licensee.
J.K.The
restrictions imposed by subsection D, or E or F of this section do not
apply beginning on the licensee's eighteenth birthday. Any penalties or
restrictions imposed pursuant to subsection G
H of this section
shall be fully satisfied even if the licensee is eighteen years of age or
older.
K.L.A
person who holds a class G driver license may apply for a class D license on or
after the person's eighteenth birthday, except that a person whose class G
driver license is suspended pursuant to section 283321 is not entitled
to receive a class D driver license until after the suspension period expires.
L.M.If
a person who is under eighteen years of age and at least sixteen years of age
applies for a class M license or a motorcycle endorsement, the department shall
not issue the class M license or motorcycle endorsement to the person unless
both of the following apply:
1.The applicant has
held an instruction permit issued pursuant to section 283156 for at
least six months, except that this requirement does not apply to a person who
has a currently valid motorcycle driver license or endorsement issued by
another jurisdiction.
2.Either:
(a)The person has
satisfactorily completed a motorcycle driver education program that is approved
by the department.If the driver education program is offered by a
public high school, the program shall be approved by the department of
transportation in consultation with the department of education.
(b)A custodial parent
or guardian of the person certifies in writing to the department that the
applicant has completed at least thirty hours of motorcycle driving practice. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Effective date
Sections 283154 and 283174,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, are effective from and after
June 30, 2017.

