







REFERENCE TITLE: insurance; identity theft group policies







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2238









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

aMENDING title
20, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 18; relating to
identity theft.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 20, chapter 6, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 18, to read:
ARTICLE 18.IDENTITY THEFT GROUP INSURANCE
POLICIES
START_STATUTE20-1694.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Account
group member" means a person who either:
(a)Has a credit card account or debit card account that is
issued by a sponsor or has agreed with the sponsor to pay obligations arising
from the use of a credit card or debit card issued to another person.
(b)May access by check an account maintained by the sponsor.
2."Authorized
user" means a group member or any other person designated by the group
member as an authorized user of the account group member's payment medium.
3."Conditional
renewal" means a renewal that is conditioned on change of limits, change
in type of coverage, reduction or elimination of coverage, increased
deductibles or addition of exclusions or increased premiums in excess of ten
percent, except for premium increases that are generated as a result of
increased exposure units or as a result of experience rating, loss rating,
retrospective rating or audit.
4."Employer"
includes subsidiaries or affiliates of the employer.
5."Sponsor"
means any of the following:
(a)A commercial creditor that issues a credit card or debit
card to its account group members.
(b)A commercial creditor that maintains an account that may be
accessed by check by the commercial creditor's account group members.
(c)The trustee or trustees of a trust established or
participated in by one or more commercial creditors for the benefit of the
commercial creditor's account group members.
6."Stolen
identity event" includes the theft, accidental release, publication or
misappropriation of information related to an individual's personal
identification or social security number or other method of identifying the
individual that has resulted in or could reasonably result in the wrongful use
of the information.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE20-1694.01.Identity theft group insurance; eligible groups
A.An
insurer may issue or deliver an identity theft group insurance policy in this
state only in accordance with this article.The policy shall cover
losses and expenses incurred because of a stolen identity event.
B.An
insurer may issue an identity theft group insurance policy to any of the
following:
1.An
employer, or the trustee or trustees of a fund established by an employer,
where the policy insures the employees of the employer and the employer or
trustee is the policyholder.
2.A labor
union, or the trustee or trustees of a fund established by a labor union, where
the policy insures the members of the labor union and the labor union or
trustee is the policyholder.
3.A trustee
of a trust established or participated in by two or more employers or labor
unions or by one or more employers and one or more labor unions, where the
policy insures the employees of the employers and the members of the labor
unions and the trustee is the policyholder.
4.A
sponsor, where the policy insures account group members.
5.An
association, or the trustee or trustees of a fund established, created or
maintained for the benefit of one or more associations, where all the eligible
members of the association or associations have the same profession, trade or
occupation and the association or associations have been organized and
maintained in good faith for purposes principally other than for obtaining
insurance and have been in active existence for at least two
years.The policy insures the members of the associations and the
Association or trustee is the policyholder.
6.A
business that sells services or products that are designed to prevent or to
minimize the effects of stolen identity events, where the policy insures the
persons who purchase the services or products and the business is the
policyholder.
7.Any other
business or association that has in its possession individuals' personal
identification information, where the policy insures the individuals whose
information the business or association possesses.
8.Any other
entity that the director determines by rule that the members are engaged in a
common enterprise or have an economic or social affinity or relationship and
that the issuance of the policy would not be contrary to the best interests of
the public.
C.The
groups listed in subsection B of this section shall consist only of natural
persons and may include a member of the group member's immediate family or
household or, where the group policyholder is a sponsor, an authorized user.
D.An
insurer shall treat all eligible groups of the same class in a like manner.
Except for the group listed in subsection B, paragraph 6 of this section, a
group member may not be required to purchase any product or service to be
eligible for the coverage. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE20-1694.02.Identity theft group insurance policy; premiums;
cancellation; requirements
A.The group
policyholder may pay the premium for an identity theft group insurance policy
from monies contributed wholly by the group policyholder, wholly by the group
members or jointly by the group policyholder and the group members, except that
the group policyholder shall pay the premium for the group policy specified in
section 201694.01, subsection B, paragraph 7.
B.The
following requirements apply to the cancellation, nonrenewal or conditional
renewal of coverage under an identity theft GROUP insurance policy:
1.The
policy shall be issued or renewed for a oneyear policy period unless the
policy provides for a longer policy period.
2.Except as
provided in paragraph 3 of this subsection, an insurer may cancel the policy or
any certificate issued under the policy only if cancellation is based on one or
more of the following reasons:
(a)Nonpayment of premium if the notice of cancellation informs
the insured of the amount due.
(b)Conviction of a criminal offense arising out of acts
increasing the hazard insured against.
(c)Discovery of fraud or material misrepresentation in
obtaining the policy or in the presentation of a claim under the policy.
(d)After the policy is issued or after the last renewal date,
discovery of an act or omission or a violation of any policy condition that
substantially and materially increases the hazard insured against and that
occurred subsequent to the inception of the current policy period.
(e)Material change in the nature or extent of the risk that
occurred after the issuance or last annual renewal anniversary date of the
policy that causes the risk of loss to be substantially and materially
increased beyond what was contemplated at the time the policy was issued or
last renewed.
(f)A determination by the director that continuation of the
present premium volume of the insurer would jeopardize that insurer's solvency
or be hazardous to the interests of the policyholders of the insurer, its
creditors or the public.
3.An
individual group member's coverage under this article terminates on termination
of the member's employment by or other affiliation with the group policyholder
that constitutes membership in the group.
4.An act or
omission by a group member does not constitute the basis for cancellation of the
group policy.
5.An
insurer's cancellation, nonrenewal or conditional renewal of a group policy or
any certificate issued under the policy shall set forth the specific reasons
for cancellation, nonrenewal or conditional renewal and does not become effective
until at least fortyfive days, or twenty days if based on nonpayment of
premium, after the insurer mails or delivers written notice of the
cancellation, nonrenewal or conditional renewal to the group policyholder at
the mailing address shown in the policy and to affected certificate holders at
each certificate holder's last known mailing address. If authorized by the
insurer, the group policyholder may mail or deliver the notice to the
certificate holder on behalf of the insurer.
C.A group
policyholder may cancel the group policy for any reason on thirty days' written
notice to the insurer and each affected group member. A group policyholder is
not required to give notice to a group member if substantially similar coverage
has been obtained from another insurer without a lapse of coverage.
D.If a
group member sustains an identity theft loss before the effective date of the
cancellation, nonrenewal or conditional renewal of a group policy or the
cancellation, nonrenewal, conditional renewal or termination of a certificate,
whether initiated by the insurer, group policyholder or group member, the loss
shall remain covered as provided under the policy notwithstanding the
cancellation, nonrenewal, conditional renewal or termination. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Rulemaking; department of insurance; exemption
The director of the department of insurance shall adopt rules
necessary to implement this act. For the purposes of this act, the department
of insurance is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.

