







REFERENCE TITLE: universities; tuition cap; funding







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2214









Introduced by
Representatives
  Larkin, Alston, Andrade, Cardenas, Espinoza, Saldate, Velasquez: Bolding,
  Clark, Fernandez, Hale, Otondo





AN ACT

amending sections
151626 and 151661, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
universities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1626, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1626.General administrative powers and duties of board;
definition
A.The board shall:
1.Have and exercise the powers necessary for the
effective governance and administration of the institutions under its control.
To that end, the board may adopt, and authorize each university to adopt, such
regulations, policies, rules or measures as are deemed necessary and may delegate
in writing to its committees, to its university presidents, or their designees,
or to other entities under its control,
any part of its authority for the administration and governance of such
institutions, including those powers enumerated in section 151625,
subsection B, paragraphs 2 and 4, paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 9, 11 and 12 of this
subsection and subsection B of this section. Any delegation of authority may be
rescinded by the board at any time in whole or in part.
2.Appoint and employ and determine the compensation
of presidents with such power and authority and for such purposes in connection
with the operation of the institutions as the board deems necessary.
3.Appoint and employ and determine the compensation
of vicepresidents, deans, professors, instructors, lecturers, fellows
and such other officers and employees with such power and authority and for
such purposes in connection with the operation of the institutions as the board
deems necessary, or delegate its authority pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
subsection.
4.Remove any officer or employee when the interests
of education in this state so require in accordance with its personnel rules
and policies.
5.Fix tuitions and fees to be charged and
differentiate the tuitions and fees between institutions and between residents,
nonresidents, undergraduate students, graduate students, students from foreign
countries and students who have earned credit hours in excess of the credit
hour threshold.Any increase
in tuition charged to resident undergraduate students may not exceed the change
in the GDP price deflator, as defined in section 41-563, from the second
preceding calendar year to the calendar year immediately preceding the year in
which the increased tuition amount is scheduled to be applied.For
the purposes of this paragraph, the undergraduate credit hour threshold is one
hundred fortyfive hours for students who attend a university under the
jurisdiction of the board. The undergraduate credit hour threshold shall be
based on the actual fulltime equivalent student enrollment counted on
the fortyfifth day of every fall and spring semester, divided by two,
and any budget adjustment based on student enrollment shall occur in the fiscal
year following the actual fulltime equivalent student enrollment count.
The undergraduate credit hour threshold shall not apply to degree programs that
require credit hours above the credit hour threshold, credits earned in the
pursuit of up to two baccalaureate degrees, credits earned in the pursuit of up
to two state regulated licensures or certificates, credits earned in the
pursuit of teaching certification, credits transferred from a private
institution of higher education, credits transferred from an institution of
higher education in another state, credits earned at another institution of
higher education but that are not accepted as transfer credits at the
university where the student is currently enrolled and credits earned by
students who enroll at a university under the jurisdiction of the board more
than twenty-four months after the end of that student's previous enrollment at
a public institution of higher education in this state. On or before October
15 of each year, the board shall report to the joint legislative budget
committee the number of instate students and outofstate
students who were enrolled at universities under the jurisdiction of the board
during the previous fiscal year who met or exceeded the undergraduate credit
hour threshold prescribed in this paragraph.The amount of tuition,
registration fees and other revenues included in the operating budget for the
university adopted by the board as prescribed in paragraph 13 of this
subsection shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147. All other tuition and fee
revenue shall be retained by each university for expenditure as approved by the
board, except that the universities shall not use any tuition or fee revenue to
fund or support an alumni association.
6.Except as provided in subsection I of this
section, adopt rules to govern its tuition and fee setting process that provide
for the following:
(a)At least one public hearing at each university
as an opportunity for students and members of the public to comment on any
proposed increase in tuition or fees.
(b)Publication of the notice of public hearing at
least ten days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
Maricopa county, Coconino county and Pima county. The notice shall include the
date, time and location of the public hearing.
(c)Public disclosure by each university of any
proposed increases in tuition or fees at least ten days prior to the public
hearing.
(d)A roll
call vote of any final board action on changes in tuition or fees
shall be taken by roll call vote.
The procedural requirements of subdivisions (a), (b), (c) and
(d) of this paragraph apply only to those changes in tuition or fees that
require board approval.
7.Pursuant to section 35115, submit a budget
request for each institution under its jurisdiction that includes the estimated
tuition and fee revenue available to support the programs of the institution as
described in the budget request. The estimated available tuition and fee
revenue shall be based on the tuition and registration fee rates in effect at
the time the budget request is submitted with adjustments for projected changes
in enrollment as provided by the board.
8.Establish curriculums and designate courses at
the several institutions that in its judgment will best serve the interests of
this state.
9.Award such degrees and diplomas on the completion
of such courses and curriculum requirements as it deems appropriate.
10.Prescribe qualifications for admission of all
students to the universities. The board shall establish policies for
guaranteed admission that assure fair and equitable access to students in this
state from public, private and charter schools and homeschools.For
the purpose of determining the qualifications of honorably discharged veterans,
veterans are those persons who served in the armed forces for a minimum of two
years and who were previously enrolled at a university or community college in
this state. No prior failing grades received by the veteran at the university
or community college in this state may be considered.
11.Adopt any energy conservation standards
promulgated by the department of administration for the construction of new
buildings.
12.Employ for such time and purposes as the board
requires attorneys whose compensation shall be fixed and paid by the
board.Litigation to which the board is a party and for which selfinsurance
is not provided may be compromised or settled at the direction of the board.
13.Adopt annually an operating budget for each
university equal to the sum of appropriated general fund monies and the amount
of tuition, registration fees and other revenues approved by the board and
allocated to each university operating budget.
14.In consultation with the state board of
education and other education groups, develop and implement a program to award
honors endorsements to be affixed to the high school diplomas of qualifying
high school pupils and to be included in the transcripts of pupils who are
awarded endorsements. The board shall develop application procedures and
testing criteria and adopt testing instruments and procedures to administer the
program. In order to receive an honors endorsement, a pupil must demonstrate
an extraordinary level of knowledge, skill and competency as measured by the
testing instruments adopted by the board in mathematics, English, science and
social studies. Additional subjects may be added at the determination of the
board. The program is voluntary for pupils.
15.Require the publisher of each literary and
nonliterary textbook used in the universities of this state to furnish computer
software in a standardized format when software becomes available for
nonliterary textbooks to the Arizona board of regents from which braille
versions of the textbooks may be produced.
16.Require universities that provide a degree in
education to require courses that are necessary to obtain a provisional
structured English immersion endorsement as prescribed by the state board of
education.
17.Acquire United
States flags for each classroom that are manufactured in the United States and
that are at least two feet by three feet and hardware to appropriately display
the United States flags, acquire a legible copy of the Constitution of the
United States and the Bill of Rights, display the flags in each classroom in
accordance with title 4 of the United States Code and display a legible copy of
the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of Rights adjacent to the
flag.
18.To facilitate the transfer of military personnel
and their dependents to and from the public schools of this state, pursue, in
cooperation with the state board of education, reciprocity agreements with
other states concerning the transfer credits for military personnel and their
dependents. A reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to this paragraph shall:
(a)Address procedures for each of the following:
(i)The transfer of student records.
(ii)Awarding credit for completed course work coursework.
(iii)Permitting a student to satisfy the graduation
requirements prescribed in section 15701.01 through the successful
performance on comparable exit-level assessment instruments administered in
another state.
(b)Include appropriate criteria developed by the
state board of education and the Arizona board of regents.
19.Require a university to publicly post notices of
all of its employment openings, including the title and description,
instructions for applying and relevant contact information.
20.In consultation with the community college
districts in this state, develop and implement common equivalencies for
specific levels of achievement on advanced placement examinations and
international baccalaureate examinations in order to award commensurate
postsecondary academic credits at community colleges and public universities in
this state.
21.On or before August 1 of each year, report to
the joint legislative budget committee the graduation rate by university campus
during the previous fiscal year. The board shall also report the retention
rate by university campus and by class, as determined by date of entry during
the previous fiscal year.
B.The board shall adopt personnel policies for all
employees of the board and the universities.
C.In conjunction with the auditor general, the
board shall develop a uniform accounting and reporting system, which shall be
reviewed by the joint legislative budget committee before final adoption by the
board. The board shall require each university to comply with the uniform
accounting and reporting system.
D.The board may employ legal assistance in procuring
loans for the institutions from the United States government. Fees or
compensation paid for such legal assistance shall not be a claim on the general
fund of this state but shall be paid from funds of the institutions.
E.The board shall approve or disapprove any
contract or agreement entered into by the university of Arizona hospital with
the Arizona health facilities authority.
F.The board may adopt policies that authorize the
institutions under its jurisdiction to enter into employment contracts with
nontenured employees for periods of more than one year but not more than five
years. The policies shall prescribe limitations on the authority of the
institutions to enter into employment contracts for periods of more than one
year but not more than five years, including the requirement that the board
approve the contracts.
G.The board may adopt a plan or plans for employee
benefits that allow for participation in a cafeteria plan that meets the
requirements of the United States internal revenue code of 1986.
H.The board may establish a program for the
exchange of students between the universities under the jurisdiction of the
board and colleges and universities located in the state of Sonora,
Mexico.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section,
the program may provide for instate tuition at the universities under
the jurisdiction of the board for fifty Sonoran students in exchange for
similar tuition provisions for up to fifty Arizona students enrolled or seeking
enrollment in Sonoran colleges or universities. The board may direct the
universities to work in conjunction with the ArizonaMexico commission to
coordinate recruitment and admissions activities.
I.Subsection A, paragraph 6, subdivisions (a), (b),
(c) and (d) of this section do not apply to fee increases that are set by
individual universities and that do not require approval by the Arizona board
of regents before the fee increase becomes effective.
J.The Arizona board of regents, in collaboration
with the universities under its jurisdiction, shall adopt a performance funding
model.The performance funding model shall use performance metrics
that include the increase in degrees awarded, the increase in completed student
credit hours and the increase in externally generated research and public
service funding.The funding formula may give added weight to
degrees related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics and other
highvalue degrees that are in short supply or that are essential to this
state's long-term economic development strategy.
K.The Arizona board of regents shall use the
performance funding model adopted pursuant to subsection J of this section in
developing and submitting budget requests for the universities under its
jurisdiction.
L.On or before November 1 of each year, the Arizona
board of regents shall submit to the joint legislative budget committee and the
governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting a report on university
debt and obligations, including:
1.Longterm notes and obligations.
2.Certificates of participation and other
obligations pursuant to any leasepurchase agreements.
3.Revenue bonds.
4.Bonds issued pursuant to section 151682.03.
M.The report issued pursuant to subsection L of
this section shall contain, for the most recent fiscal year:
1.The aggregate level of outstanding principal and
the principal and interest payments, by type of debt or obligation.
2.An itemization, by campus and project, of the
amount of yearly principal and interest to be paid in the most recent and the
next five fiscal years.
N.The board may enter into an intergovernmental
agreement pursuant to section 15-1747 to manage universities under its
jurisdiction subject to the terms of the reciprocity agreement.
O.For the purposes of this section,
"university debt and obligations" means debt and obligations, the
principal and interest of which are paid in whole or in part with university
monies. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-1661, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1661.Annual appropriation; enrollment audit; expenditure;
balance; salaries
A.There shall be appropriated in the general
appropriation bill for each fiscal year a sum of monies not less than eightyfive onehundredths of one
mill on the dollar of the assessed valuation of all taxable property in the
state fifty percent of
the total cost of attendance for resident students who attended the institutions
under the arizona board of REGENTS' JURISDICTION during the previous fiscal
year for the improvement, support and maintenance of the those institutions under the Arizona board of regents' jurisdiction,
including payment of salaries, current expenses, purchase of equipment, making
necessary repairs, construction of new buildings, purchase of lands and in
general for payment of all such expenses connected with the management of the those institutions under the Arizona board of regents' jurisdiction.
The department of revenue, upon compiling
the aggregate assessed valuation of all taxable property within this state,
shall compute the amount of monies so determined and certify such amount over
its seal to the department of administration and the state treasurer.
B.The fulltime equivalent student enrollment
reported for the previous fiscal year by each university shall be audited
annually by the auditor general. The auditor general shall report the results
of the audit to the staffs of the joint legislative budget committee and the
governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting on or before October 15
of each year. On or before July 21 of each academic year, each university
shall provide for the previous fall semester a certified report to the auditor
general of the number of fulltime equivalent students calculated by the
university and a separate report only for those students who meet the residency
requirements prescribed in section 151802. The university's records
used to calculate fulltime equivalent student enrollment shall be
provided to the auditor general in an electronic format prescribed by the
auditor general.Beginning in
2006, each
university shall submit to the auditor general a summary of its fulltime
equivalent student enrollment accounting policies and procedures, compilation
procedures and source records used for calculating fulltime equivalent
student enrollment.These accounting policies and procedures,
compilation procedures and source records shall comply with policies developed
on or before June 30, 2006 by the Arizona board of regents, in consultation
with the auditor general and reviewed by the joint legislative budget
committee. These policies shall include a review and recommendations of the
necessity of minimum requirements for students enrolled in classes to qualify
for appropriations pursuant to this section, including requirements that the
class be a forcredit course that is necessary for the completion of a
degree and that the student enrolled in the course be physically present in
this state at the time the course is conducted. The basic actual fulltime
equivalent student enrollment shall be counted on the fortyfifth day
after the basic actual fulltime equivalent student enrollment classes
begin for the fall and spring semesters, as published in the university
catalogs, and divided by two.The Arizona board of regents shall
also make recommendations of whether each professor or instructor should be
required to review class rosters and make additions or deletions as necessary.
If so, class rosters that reflect enrollment as of the fortyfifth day
shall be provided by the registrar's office to each professor or instructor for
every class section. The class roster shall indicate the course number, course
title, time, instructor name and students enrolled. On the fortyfifth
day class rosters, each professor or instructor shall indicate as withdrawn
each student who has formally withdrawn from the course, and that student shall
not be counted for state aid purposes. The official fortyfifth day
rosters shall include a manual signature and date or an electronic
authorization and date by the professor or instructor and shall include the
following certification:
I hereby certify that the information contained in this class
roster accurately reflects those students who are enrolled.
C.The Arizona board of regents shall also report
the basic actual full-time equivalent student enrollment for only those
students who meet the residency requirements prescribed in section
15-1802.The basic actual fulltime equivalent student
enrollment for only those students who meet the residency requirements
prescribed in section 15-1802 that is reported by each university for the
previous fiscal year shall be annually audited by the auditor general.
D.Students who have withdrawn or who have been
withdrawn from classes as of the fortyfifth day shall not be counted for
state aid purposes. A record shall be maintained that identifies student
withdrawals by date of withdrawal, as of the fortyfifth day and after
the fortyfifth day for the entire semester.
E.Amounts appropriated as provided by subsection A of this section shall be paid
as other claims against this state are paid.
F.The balance of appropriations as provided by subsection
A of this section at the
end of the fiscal year, if any, shall not revert to the general fund but shall
be carried forward for the continued use for which appropriated.
G.Monies appropriated to a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents for cost of living cost-of-living salary increases for
university employees shall be used to provide cost of living costofliving salary increases
to all university employees,
including graduate student assistants. If monies are appropriated to a
university for salary increases based on merit, the monies shall be used to
provide merit increases according to the merit pay plan adopted by the Arizona
board of regents.
H.The Arizona board of regents shall determine
current actual fulltime equivalent student enrollment at each of the
institutions under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents. Fulltime
equivalent student enrollment shall be calculated by adding the following:
1.The total number of enrolled fall and spring
semester credit hours in 100level credit courses and 200level
credit courses divided by fifteen.
2.The total number of enrolled fall and spring
semester credit hours in 300level credit courses and 400level
credit courses divided by twelve.
3.The total number of enrolled fall and spring
semester credit hours in graduate level credit courses divided by ten.
I.The Arizona board of regents, in its annual
budget request, shall not include funding for any student who is enrolled at an
institution under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents and who has
earned credit hours in excess of the undergraduate credit hour threshold,
except that the undergraduate credit hour threshold shall not apply to students
who are enrolled in a degree program that requires credit hours above the
credit threshold. For the purposes of this subsection, the undergraduate
credit hour threshold is one hundred
fifty-five hours for students who attend a university under the jurisdiction of
the board in fiscal year 2006-2007, one hundred fifty hours for students who
attend a university under the jurisdiction of the board in fiscal year
2007-2008 and one hundred fortyfive hours for students who
attend a university under the jurisdiction of the board after fiscal year 2007-2008. The undergraduate
credit hour threshold shall be based on the actual fulltime equivalent
student enrollment counted on the fortyfifth day after classes begin for
the fall and spring semesters and any budget adjustment based on student
enrollment shall occur in the fiscal year following the actual full-time
equivalent student enrollment count. The undergraduate credit hour threshold
shall not apply to credits earned in the pursuit of up to two baccalaureate
degrees, credits earned in the pursuit of up to two state regulated licensures
and certificates, credits earned in the pursuit of teaching certification,
credits transferred from a private institution of higher education, credits
transferred from an institution of higher education in another state, credits
earned at another institution of higher education but that are not accepted as
transfer credits at the university where the student is currently enrolled and
credits earned by students who enroll at a university under the jurisdiction of
the board more than twenty-four months after the end of that student's previous
enrollment at a public institution of higher education in this state. END_STATUTE

