







REFERENCE TITLE: workers' compensation; modifications







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2240









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

Amending section
23941, Arizona Revised Statutes; AMending title 23, chapter 6, article
3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding sections 23941.02 and 23954;
amending section 23-1070.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to workers'
compensation.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-941, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-941.Hearing rights and procedure
A.Subject to the
provisions of section 23947, any interested party may file
a request for a hearing concerning a claim.
B.A request for a hearing shall be made in writing,
be signed by or on behalf
of the interested party and including his
include the interested party's address,
stating state that a hearing is desired, and be filed with the commission.
C.The commission shall refer the request for the
hearing to the administrative law judge division for determination as
expeditiously as possible.The presiding administrative law judge
may dismiss a request for hearing when
if it appears to his the presiding administrative law judge's satisfaction
that the disputed issue or issues have been resolved by the
parties.Any interested party who objects to such dismissal may
request a review pursuant to section 23943.
D.At least twenty days' prior notice of the time
and place of the hearing shall be given to all parties in interest by mail at
their last known address.In the case of a hearing concerning
suspension of benefits, pursuant to section 231026, 231027 or 231071,
only ten days' prior notice need be given is required.Hearings
shall be held in the county where the workman resided at the time of the injury
or such other another place selected by the
administrative law judge.
E.A record of all proceedings at the hearing shall
be made but need not be transcribed unless a party applies to the court of
appeals for a writ of certiorari pursuant to section 23951.The
record of the proceedings if not transcribed, shall be kept for at least two
years but may be destroyed after such
that time if a
transcription is not requested.
F.Except as otherwise provided in this section and
rules or of procedure established by the commission,
the administrative law judge is not bound by common law or statutory rules of
evidence or by technical or formal rules of procedure and may conduct the
hearing in any manner that will achieve substantial justice.
G.Any party shall be entitled to issuance and
service of subpoenas under the provisions
of section 23921.Any party or his the
party's representative may serve such subpoenas.
H.Any interested party or his the
interested party's authorized agent shall be entitled to inspect
any claims file of the commission, provided that such authorization is filed in
writing with the commission.
I.Any interested party is entitled to one change
of administrative law judge as a matter of right.To exercise the
right to a change of administrative law judge, the interested party shall file
a notice of change of administrative law judge. The notice of change of
administrative law judge shall:
1.Be signed by the interested party or the
interested party's authorized agent.
2.State the name of the administrative law judge
to be changed.
3.Certify that the interested party or the
interested party's authorized agent has timely filed the notice of change of
administrative law judge. A notice of change of administrative law judge as a
matter of right is timely if filed not more than thirty days after the date of
the notice of hearing or not more than thirty days after a new administrative
law judge is assigned to the claim if another interested party or the
interested party's authorized agent has filed a notice of change of
administrative law judge as a matter of right.
4.Certify
that the interested party or the interested party's authorized agent has not
previously been granted a change of administrative law judge as a matter of
right for the claim.
I.J.Within thirty days after the date of notice of hearing
Any interested party to a hearing before the commission or the interested party's authorized agent may
file an affidavit for change of administrative law judge for cause against any hearing officer of the commission hearing such matters or
commencing to hear such matter, setting a presiding administrative law judge that sets forth
any of the grounds as provided in subsection J K
of this section. , and The chief administrative law judge shall
immediately transfer the matter to another officer of the commission who shall preside
therein.Not more than one change of administrative law judge shall
be granted to any one party. administrative law judge. An affidavit for change of
administrative law judge for cause shall be filed within the time frames
provided in subsection I of this section.
J.K.Grounds which that may be alleged as provided in subsection I J of this section for change of administrative
law judge for cause are:
1.That the administrative law judge has been
engaged as counsel in the hearing prior
to before appointment
as administrative law judge.
2.That the administrative law judge is otherwise
interested in the hearing.
3.That the administrative law judge is of kin or
otherwise related to a party to the hearing.
4.That the administrative law judge is a material
witness in the hearing.
5.That the party filing the affidavit has cause to
believe and does believe that on account of the bias, prejudice, or interest of the administrative law
judge he the administrative law judge cannot obtain a
fair and impartial hearing.
L.For the purposes of subsections I and J of
this section, the employer and the employer's insurance carrier are considered
a single party unless the employer's and the employer's insurance company's
interests are in conflict.
K.M.After final
disposition of the proceedings in which they are used, exhibits marked for
identification or introduced as evidence at hearings or proceedings which that cannot be readily copied, photocopied,
mechanically reproduced or otherwise preserved as a document for inclusion in
the record of the proceedings may be disposed of in the following manner:
1.By written notice, the attorneys of record, or if
none, the parties, shall be notified that the counsel or the party introducing such the exhibit may claim it at the industrial
commission within sixty days.
2.After sixty days following notification, any such exhibit remaining in the
custody of the industrial commission shall be disposed of as state surplus
property pursuant to the direction of the department of administration, surplus property division. A
written description of any such
the exhibit shall be
included in the record to preserve its
the exhibit's identity. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 23, chapter 6, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 23-941.02 and 23-954, to read:
START_STATUTE23-941.02.Vexatious litigants; designation; definitions
A.In a workers'
compensation case before the commission, on the motion of a party, the chief
administrative law judge or an administrative law judge designated by the chief
administrative law judge may designate a pro se litigant a vexatious litigant.
The pro se litigant shall respond within thirty days after the motion.
The chief administrative law judge, or administrative law judge if designated
by the chief administrative law judge, shall issue an order within thirty days
after the pro se litigant's response is received or the time for response has
elapsed.
B.A pro se
litigant who is designated a vexatious litigant may not file a new request for
hearing, pleading, motion or other document without prior leave of the
administrative law judge. A designation of vexatious litigant is suspended
during the period in which the litigant is represented by legal counsel.
C.A pro se
litigant is a vexatious litigant if the commission finds the pro se litigant
engaged in vexatious conduct.
D.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Vexatious
conduct" includes any of the following:
(a)Repeated
filing of requests for hearing, pleadings, motions or other documents solely or
primarily for the purpose of harassment.
(b)Unreasonably
expanding or delaying commission proceedings. 
(c)Bringing
or defending claims without substantial justification. 
(d)Engaging
in abuse of discovery or conduct in discovery that has resulted in the
imposition of sanctions against the pro se litigant. 
(e)A
pattern of making unreasonable, repetitive and excessive requests for
information. 
(f)Repeated
filing of documents or requests for relief that have been the subject of
previous rulings by the commission in the same claim.
2."Without
substantial justification" has the same meaning prescribed in section 12349.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-954.Payment of interest on awards
Interest on the payment
of benefits shall be paid at a rate of interest at the lesser of ten percent
per annum or a rate per annum that is equal to one percent plus the prime rate
as published by the board of governors of the federal reserve system in
statistical release h.15 or any publication that may supersede it on the date
benefits are paid. Interest shall be paid only in the following
instances:
1.On an
award entered by the commission or by notice of claim status awarding permanent
partial disability benefits pursuant to section 23-1044, subsection B or C or
permanent total disability benefits pursuant to section 23-1045, subsection B
or C, if benefits are not paid within ten days after the date the award or
notice becomes final.
2.On a
claim for dependent benefits, if the claim is denied and subsequently accepted
or found compensable by award of the commission, from the date the claim for
benefits was filed. 
Sec.3.Section 23-1070.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1070.01.Request for early hearing; stipulation; action of
commission
A.If a request for hearing filed in connection with
a change of physician under section 231070 alleges, by affidavit, that
immediate and irreparable injury, loss or damage will result if such the
hearing is not held prior
to before the
times otherwise prescribed by article 3 of this chapter or if all interested
parties, in person or by counsel, stipulate in such the
request for hearing that such
the hearing should be
held prior to before the times otherwise prescribed
by article 3 of this chapter, the commission shall:
1.Immediately issue a notice to all parties setting
a hearing date not more than fifteen days later.
2.Require that the administrative law judge, who
shall not be subject to the notice or affidavit
for change prescribed by section 23941, subsection I or J, determine the matter and make an award,
if any, within five days after completion of the hearing.
B.All other procedures prescribed for subsequent
actions with regard to such
the hearing or award
shall be as otherwise prescribed by law. END_STATUTE

