







REFERENCE TITLE: county merit system; terms; hearings 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2247









Introduced by
Representative
  Gray





AN ACT

amending sections
11353, 11356 and 381004, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to county merit systems.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-353, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-353.County employee merit system commission; members; terms;
vacancies
A.Upon
On the adoption of a
county employee merit system the board of supervisors shall appoint a county
employee merit system commission to assist in administering the
system.The commission shall consist of five members, each of whom
shall hold office for a term of four years and until his a successor
is appointed and qualified.Of the members first appointed, two
shall serve for a two-year term, two for a three-year term and one shall serve
a four-year term, and such the members shall determine by
lot the length of their terms.Appointment to fill a vacancy caused
by other than expiration of term shall be for the unexpired portion of the
term.
B.Members of the commission shall be selected from
among the qualified electors of the county.No more than three of such the members shall be from the same political
party. 
C.If the
members of the county employee merit system commission are the same members
that the board of supervisors appoints to the county merit system council for
law enforcement officers established pursuant to section 381002, the
board of supervisors may appoint the members of the county employee merit
system commission to five-year terms consistent with the terms prescribed by
section 381002, subsection C. To make the terms consistent, a member's
current term on the county employee merit system commission shall extend to the
date on which the member's current term on the county merit system council for
law enforcement officers expires. The subsequent term of office will be five
years as prescribed by section 381002, subsection C.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-356, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-356.Dismissal, suspension or reduction in rank of employees;
appeals; hearings
A.Any officer or employee in the classified civil
service may be dismissed, suspended or reduced in rank or compensation by the
appointing authority after appointment or promotion is complete only by written
order, stating specifically the reasons for the action.The order
shall be filed with the clerk of the
board of supervisors in
the officer's or employee's official county personnel record and
a copy shall be furnished to the person to be dismissed, suspended or reduced.
B.The officer
or employee, Within ten calendar
days after presentation to
him of the order is presented
to the officer or employee, the officer or employee may appeal the order
through the clerk of the commission. On the filing of the appeal, the clerk of
the commission shall immediately transmit the order and appeal to the
commission for a hearing.
C.Within twenty calendar days after receiving the order and
appeal, the commission shall set a date for a hearing of the appeal. The
appellant may appear personally, produce evidence, and
have counsel and, if
requested by the appellant, request a public hearing.
D.The commission may appoint a hearing officer to
conduct the hearing and take evidence on behalf of the commission. If a
hearing officer is appointed to conduct the hearing, on conclusion of the
hearing the hearing officer shall submit proposed findings of fact, conclusions
of law and a recommendation to the commission.
E.any
appeal of a dismissal, suspension or reduction in rank in which a single
hearing officer has been appointed by the commission to conduct the appeal
hearing shall be open to the public unless either of the following applies:
1.Both
parties consent to a closed hearing.
2.The
hearing officer determines that good cause exists to close the hearing.
E.F.In
any appeal of a dismissal, suspension or reduction in rank in which a single
hearing officer has been appointed to conduct the appeal hearing, the officer
or employee or the employer may request a change of hearing officer. On the
first request of a party, the commission shall grant the request. The
commission may grant all other requests only on a showing that a fair and
impartial hearing cannot be obtained due to the prejudice of the assigned
hearing officer. The chairperson of the commission shall decide whether a
sufficient showing of prejudice has been made.
F.G.Following
the hearing, or if a hearing officer has been appointed, following receipt of
the hearing officer's proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and
recommendation, the commission shall either affirm, modify or revoke the order.
G.H.The
findings and decision of the commission shall be final and shall be subject to
administrative review as provided in title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
H.I.This
section does not apply to furloughs of classified employees if the furloughs
are undertaken to address budget shortfalls or structural imbalance. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 38-1004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-1004.Appeals; hearings
A.A classified law enforcement officer who is
suspended, demoted or dismissed by the department head, after a hearing and
review before the merit system council, may have the determination of the
council reviewed pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6 in the superior
court of the county in which the law enforcement officer resides.If
the determination of the council is overruled by the court, the law enforcement
officer shall be reinstated in the officer's position and the officer shall be
reimbursed for any compensation withheld pending determination by the council
and court.
B.If the order of the department head was for a
suspension greater than sixteen hours, demotion or dismissal and the court
exonerates the officer, the court may award, in whole or in part, the
reasonable costs and attorney fees that the law enforcement officer incurred or
were incurred on behalf of the law enforcement officer in the court
proceedings. The award of attorney fees by the court shall not exceed fifteen
thousand dollars.An award of attorney fees does not apply if either
of the following applies:
1.The order of the department head was not for
disciplinary purposes but was for administrative purposes such as a reduction
in force.
2.The disciplinary action related to offduty
activities unrelated to the required duties of the law enforcement officer. If
the department head appeals the decision of the court, the court's award of any
costs or attorney fees to an officer shall be stayed pending the conclusion of
the appeal. If the department head's decision is upheld on appeal, the award
of costs or attorney fees in favor of the officer shall be reversed.
C.If a law enforcement officer of a county, city or
town described in section 381007 appeals from a decision of a department
head in connection with the law enforcement officer's suspension greater than
sixteen hours, demotion or dismissal and the county, city or town maintains a
merit system or civil service plan for its employees, and the merit system or
civil service plan appeals board exonerates the officer, the merit system or
civil service plan appeals board may award, in whole or in part, the reasonable
costs and attorney fees that the law enforcement officer incurred or were
incurred on behalf of the law enforcement officer in connection with the
appeal.The amount of the award by the merit system or civil service
plan appeals board shall not exceed ten thousand dollars. If the department
head appeals the decision of the merit system or civil service appeals board,
the award of attorney fees shall be stayed pending the conclusion of the
appeal. If the officer appeals to court the decision of the merit system or
civil service plan appeals board, or of the city or town council or board of supervisors
if the city, town or county has no such board, and the court exonerates the
officer, the court may award, in whole or in part, the reasonable costs and
attorney fees that the law enforcement officer incurred or were incurred on
behalf of the law enforcement officer in connection with the appeal. The award
of attorney fees by the governing body or court shall not exceed fifteen
thousand dollars.An award of attorney fees under this subsection
does not apply if either of the following applies:
1.The order of the department head was not for
disciplinary purposes but was for administrative purposes such as a reduction
in force.
2.The disciplinary action related to offduty
activities unrelated to the required duties of the law enforcement officer. If
the department head appeals the decision of the court, the court's award of any
costs or attorney fees to an officer shall be stayed pending the conclusion of
the appeal. If the department head's decision is upheld on appeal, the award
of costs or attorney fees in favor of the officer shall be reversed.
D.A department head shall have the right to have
all council policies and decisions reviewed pursuant to title 12, chapter 7,
article 6 in the superior court of the county in which the law enforcement
officer resides and legal counsel for the department head shall be provided by
the county or city attorney in whose jurisdiction the department lies.
E.Notwithstanding
section 381106, subsection I, any appeal of a suspension, demotion or
dismissal in which a single hearing officer or administrative law judge has
been appointed by the merit system council or appeals board to conduct the
appeal hearing shall be open to the public unless either of the following
applies:
1.Both
parties consent to a closed hearing.
2.The
hearing officer or administrative law judge determines that good cause exists
to close the hearing. END_STATUTE

