







REFERENCE TITLE: universities; commercial paper







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2271









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston, Thorpe: Brophy McGee, Senator Allen S





AN ACT

amending section
151682, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 15, chapter 13, article
5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 151696; relating to the
Arizona board of regents.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 151682, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1682.Powers
The board shall have power for each institution, as defined in
this article, to:
1.Acquire, if authorized by the legislature, any
project or projects, or any combination thereof, and to secure indirect or third party third-party financing for or own, operate and
maintain the same and establish, own, operate and maintain a system of building
facilities.
2.Acquire by purchase, contract, leasepurchase,
lease or gift, and hold or dispose of, real or personal property or rights or
interest therein.
3.Accept grants, subsidies or loans of monies from
a federal agency, or others, upon on such terms and conditions
as may be imposed, and to pledge the proceeds of grants, subsidies or loans of
monies received or to be received from the United States of America or any
agency or instrumentality thereof, or others, pursuant to agreements entered
into between such the board and the United
States of America, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or others.
4.Borrow monies and issue bonds to acquire any one
project, or more than one, or any combination thereof, if authorized by the
legislature, and to refund bonds heretofore or hereafter issued to acquire any
project or projects, or to refund any such refunding bonds, or for any one, or
more than one, or all of such purposes, or any combination thereof, and to
provide for the security and payment of such bonds and for the rights of the
holders thereof.
5.Make contracts and leases and execute all
instruments and perform all acts and do all things necessary or convenient to
carry out the powers granted in this article.
6.Retain in its treasury:
(a)All monies received from the sale of all bonds
issued under this article.
(b)All fees, tuitions, rentals and other charges
from students, faculty, staff members and others using or being served by, or
having the right to use or the right to be served by, or to operate, any
project.
(c)All fees for student activities and student
services and all other fees, tuitions and charges collected from students
matriculated, registered or otherwise enrolled at and attending each
institution pledged under the terms of any resolution authorizing bonds
pursuant to this article.
(d)All rentals from any facility or building leased
to the United States of America.
7.Obtain
lines of credit for cash management or liquidity purposes and to issue commercial
paper as provided in section 151696. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title
15, chapter 13, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 15-1696, to read:
START_STATUTE15-1696.Commercial paper; requirements; annual report
A.The board
has the power and is hereby authorized to issue commercial paper from time to
time to provide shortterm financing for any capital project, to pay any
expenses of one or more institutions or to provide for payment of commercial
paper or other obligations previously issued. The commercial paper may be
issued as notes or other obligations, to be issued as a single instrument or as
a succession of instruments, each of which matures in not more than two hundred
seventy days, to provide for payment of instruments previously issued.
B.The
following apply to commercial paper issued under this section:
1.Commercial
paper may be issued pursuant to resolution of the board or pursuant to
board-authorized agreements.
2.The
board's repayment obligations on commercial paper may be payable from and
secured by a pledge of the same sources and covenants allowed by section
15-1685, or other sources that may be pledged, or may be payable from amounts
budgeted and allocated by the board for that purpose for the current fiscal
period.
3.Any
commercial paper payable from amounts budgeted and allocated by the board for
that purpose for the current fiscal period shall provide that both:
(a)The obligation of the board to
make any payments for or related to the commercial paper is a current expense
of the board and is not a general obligation indebtedness of the board or this
state.
(b)If the board fails to budget and
allocate monies for any periodic payment or renewal term for any future fiscal
period, the board's obligation to make payments for or related to the
commercial paper ceases at the end of the current fiscal period, and the board
and this state are relieved of any subsequent payment obligations.
4.The board
shall establish by resolution or in the authorizing agreement a final maturity
date or final renewal period for commercial paper and a maximum rate of
interest for commercial paper issued pursuant to this section.the individual
instruments representing the commercial paper may bear interest at rates not
exceeding the maximum rate established by the board, may mature and be retired,
including with the proceeds of subsequent instruments, over periods ending not
later than the final maturity date or renewal period established by the board
and may be retired with the proceeds of bonds or other obligations of the
board.
5.Commercial
paper may be sold through an agent or dealer that is recognized in municipal
finance.Commercial paper shall mature at intervals, bear interest,
be in the form, be executed and have such other terms and conditions as
provided by the board.
6.In connection with the commercial paper
requirements of this section, the board may:
(a)Contract
with a bank or other financial institution, insurance company or indemnity
company to provide additional security for the commercial paper in the form of
a letter of credit, a line of credit, an insurance policy or other security.
(b)Pay the costs of the additional
security from amounts provided by the commercial paper or from other lawfully
available sources and may enter into reimbursement obligations in connection
with the cost of that additional security.
7.Any
reimbursement obligation entered into with a bank or other financial
institution, insurance company or indemnity company may not provide for the
payment of interest in excess of the maximum interest rate established by the
board for the commercial paper or a different maximum interest rate established
by the board for the reimbursement obligation. The reimbursement obligation
may be payable from the same source as the commercial paper or from other
lawfully available monies of the board but may not constitute a general
obligation of the board or this state.
8.Notwithstanding
any other law, the joint committee on capital review is not required to review
or approve the issuance of commercial paper. Commercial paper issued pursuant
to this section is exempt from and excluded from the computations required by
section 15-1683, subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (a).
9.ANY
COMMERCIAL PAPER ISSUED BY THE BOARD PURSUANT TO THIS SECTION shall BE REPAID
WITHIN TWO HUNDRED SEVENTY DAYS.
C.ON OR
BEFORE NOVEMBER 15 OF EACH YEAR, THE BOARD SHALL PROVIDE TO THE PRESIDENT OF
THE SENATE, THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND THE GOVERNOR A
REPORT ON any COMMERCIAL PAPER issued PURSUANT TO THIS SECTION during THE
PREVIOUS FISCAL YEAR, INCLUDING THE AMOUNT OF COMMERCIAL PAPER ISSUED, THE
PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE COMMERCIAL PAPER WAS USED AND ANY COMMERCIAL PAPER THAT
WAS REDEEMED. END_STATUTE

