







REFERENCE TITLE: STO scholarships; student transfers







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2213









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Mendez, Otondo, Saldate: Alston,
  Andrade, Gonzales, Hale, Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending section
43-1603, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school tuition organization
scholarships.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1603.Operational requirements for school tuition organizations;
notice; qualified schools
A.A certified school
tuition organization must be established to receive contributions from
taxpayers for the purposes of income tax credits under sections 431089
and 431089.03 and to pay educational scholarships or tuition grants to
allow students to attend any qualified school of their parents' choice.
B.To be eligible for
certification and retain certification, the school tuition organization:
1.Must allocate at
least ninety percent of its annual revenue from contributions made for the
purposes of sections 431089 and 431089.03 for educational
scholarships or tuition grants.
2.Shall not limit the
availability of educational scholarships or tuition grants to only students of
one school.
3.May allow donors to
recommend student beneficiaries, but shall not award, designate or reserve
scholarships solely on the basis of donor recommendations.
4.Shall not allow
donors to designate student beneficiaries as a condition of any contribution to
the organization, or facilitate, encourage or knowingly permit the exchange of
beneficiary student designations in violation of section 431089,
subsection F.
5.Shall include on the
organization's website, if one exists, the percentage and total dollar amount
of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the previous
fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose
family income meets the economic eligibility requirements established under the
national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections
1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose
family income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this
paragraph but does not exceed one hundred eighty-five percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
6.Must not award
educational scholarships or tuition grants to students who are simultaneously
enrolled in a district school or charter school and a qualified school.
C.A school tuition
organization shall include the following notice in any printed materials
soliciting donations, in applications for scholarships and on its website, if
one exists:
Notice
A
school tuition organization cannot award, restrict or reserve scholarships
solely on the basis of a donor's recommendation.
A taxpayer may not
claim a tax credit if the taxpayer agrees to swap donations with another
taxpayer to benefit either taxpayer's own dependent.
D.In evaluating
applications and awarding, designating or reserving scholarships, a school
tuition organization:
1.Shall not award,
designate or reserve a scholarship solely on the recommendation of any person
contributing money to the organization, but may consider the recommendation among
other factors.
2.Shall consider the
financial need of applicants.
E.A taxpayer's
contribution to a school tuition organization that exceeds the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089 but does not exceed the amount of the
credit allowed by section 431089.03 is considered a contribution
pursuant to section 431089.03. A school tuition organization must use
at least ninety percent of contributions made pursuant to section 431089.03
for educational scholarships or tuition grants for students to whom any of the
following applies:
1.Attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a full-time student as defined in
section 15901 or attended a preschool program that offers services to
students with disabilities at a governmental school for at least ninety days of
the prior fiscal year and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified
school.
2.Enrolls in a
qualified school in a kindergarten program or a preschool program that offers
services to students with disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a
member of the armed forces of the United States who is stationed in this state
pursuant to military orders.
4.Received an educational scholarship or tuition
grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection or under chapter 15 of this
title if the student continues to attend a qualified school in a subsequent
year.
F.In awarding
educational scholarships or tuition grants from contributions made pursuant to
section 431089.03, a school tuition organization shall give priority to
students and siblings of students on a waiting list for scholarships if the
school tuition organization maintains a waiting list.
G.If an individual
educational scholarship or tuition grant exceeds the school's tuition, the
amount in excess shall be returned to the school tuition organization that made
the award or grant.The school tuition organization may allocate the
returned monies as a multiyear award for that student and report the award
pursuant to section 431604, paragraph 5, subdivision (b) or may allocate
the returned monies for educational scholarships or tuition grants for other
students. END_STATUTE

