







REFERENCE TITLE: service animals; licensing; fee waiver







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2255









Introduced by
Representative
  Brophy McGee





AN ACT

Amending sections
9500.32, 111008 and 111024, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to animal control.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-500.32, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.32.License fees for dogs; prohibition; violation;
classification
A.A city or town may not charge an individual who
has a disability and who uses a service animal as defined in section 111024, a person that trains a service animal as
defined in section 111024 or an individual who uses a
search or and rescue dog a license fee for that dog. 
B.An applicant for a license for a search or and rescue dog shall provide adequate proof
satisfactory to the enforcement agent that the dog is a search or and rescue
dog.
C.An applicant for a license for a service animal
shall sign a written statement that the dog is a service animal as defined in
section 111024. A person who makes a false statement pursuant to this
subsection is guilty of a petty offense,
and is subject to a fine
that shall does not exceed fifty dollars. The statement
to be signed shall be substantially in the following form:
By signing this document, I declare that the dog to be licensed
is a service animal as defined in section 111024, Arizona Revised
Statutes, and I understand that a person who makes a false statement pursuant
to section 9500.32, Arizona Revised Statutes, is guilty of a petty
offense, and is
subject to a fine that does not exceed fifty dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-1008, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1008.License fees for dogs; issuance of dog tags; exception;
violation; classification
A.The board of supervisors of each county may set a
license fee that shall be paid for each dog three months of age or over older that is kept, harbored or maintained
within the boundaries of the
this state for at least
thirty consecutive days of each calendar year. License fees shall become
payable at the discretion of the board of supervisors of each county. The
licensing period shall not exceed the period of time for revaccination as
designated by the state veterinarian. License fees shall be paid within ninety
days to the board of supervisors. A penalty fee of two dollars shall be paid
if the license application is made less than one year subsequent to after the date on which the dog is required to
be licensed under this article. If the license application is made one year or
later from the date on which the dog is required to be licensed, an additional
penalty fee of ten dollars shall be paid for each subsequent year up to a
maximum of twentytwo dollars.This penalty shall not be
assessed against applicants who provide adequate proof that the dog to be
licensed has been in their possession in Arizona
this state less than
thirty consecutive days.
B.If the board of supervisors adopts a license fee,
the board shall provide durable dog tags. Each dog licensed under the terms of
this article shall receive, at the time of licensing, such a tag on which shall
be inscribed the name of the county, the number of the license and the year in
which it expires. The tag shall be attached to a collar or harness that shall
be worn by the dog at all times, except as otherwise provided in this article.
Whenever a dog tag is lost, a duplicate
replacement tag shall be
issued on application by the owner and payment of a fee established by the
board of supervisors.
C.The board of supervisors may set license fees
that are lower for dogs permanently incapable of procreation. An applicant for
a license for a dog claimed to be incapable of procreation shall provide
adequate proof satisfactory to the county
enforcement agent that such
the dog has been
surgically altered to be permanently incapable of procreation.
D.All fees and penalties shall be deposited in the
rabies control fund pursuant to section 111011.
E.Any person who knowingly fails within fifteen
days after written notification from the county enforcement agent to obtain a
license for a dog required to be licensed, counterfeits an official dog tag,
removes such tag from any dog for the purpose of intentional and malicious
mischief or places a dog tag upon
on a dog unless the tag
was issued for that particular dog is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
F.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
board of supervisors of each county may not charge an individual who has a
disability and who uses a service animal as defined in section 111024, a person that trains a service animal as defined in section
111024 or an individual who uses a search or and rescue
dog a license fee for that dog. An applicant for a license for a:
1.Search or
and rescue dog shall
provide adequate proof satisfactory to the county enforcement agent that the dog is a
search or and rescue dog.
2.Service animal shall sign a written statement
that the dog is a service animal as defined in section 111024. A person
who makes a false statement pursuant to this paragraph is guilty of a petty
offense, and is subject to a fine that shall does not exceed fifty dollars. The statement
to be signed shall be substantially in the following form:
By signing this document, I declare that the dog to be
licensed is a service animal as defined in section 111024, Arizona
Revised Statutes, and I understand that a person who makes a false statement
pursuant to section 111008, Arizona Revised Statutes, is guilty of a
petty offense, and is
subject to a fine that does not exceed fifty dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 11-1024, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1024.Service animals; rights of individuals with disabilities;
violation; classification; definitions
A.Any person or entity that operates a public place
shall not discriminate against individuals with disabilities who use service
animals if the work or tasks performed by the service animal are directly
related to the individual's disability. Work or tasks include assisting
individuals who are blind or have low vision with navigation and other tasks,
alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people
or sounds, providing nonviolent protection or rescue work, pulling a
wheelchair, assisting an individual during a seizure, alerting individuals to
the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as medicine or the telephone,
providing physical support and assistance with balance and stability to
individuals with mobility disabilities and helping individuals with psychiatric
and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive or
destructive behaviors.The crime deterrent effects of an animal's
presence and the provision of emotional support, wellbeing, comfort or
companionship do not constitute work or tasks.
B.It is not discriminatory to exclude a service
animal from a public place if one or more of the following apply:
1.The animal poses a direct threat to the health or
safety of others.
2.The animal fundamentally alters the nature of the
public place or the goods, services or activities provided.
3.The animal poses an undue burden.
C.Public places may maintain a general no pets
policy if it is not used to exclude service animals and if it does not grant
rights to any person to bring the person's pet into a public place that
otherwise does not permit pets.
D.A service animal handler is liable for any damage
done to a public place by the service animal or service animal in training.
E.Any trainer or individual with a disability may
take an animal being trained as a service animal to a public place for purposes
of training it to the same extent as provided in subsections A, B and C of this
section.
F.A zoo or wild animal park may prohibit a service
animal, including a dog guide or service dog, from any area of the zoo or wild
animal park where the service animal may come into direct contact with the
animals contained in the zoo or wild animal park.Service animals
shall not be excluded from public walkways or sidewalks or from any area that
allows for physical barriers between the service animals, dog guides or service
dogs and the animals in the zoo or wild animal park. Any zoo or wild animal
park that prohibits dog guides and service dogs shall provide without cost
adequate facilities for the temporary confinement of dog guides and service
dogs. The facilities shall be adequate to accommodate the anticipated
attendance of legally blind,
or deaf persons or persons with physical disabilities,
shall be in an area not accessible to the general public, shall provide water
for the dog guides and service dogs and shall otherwise be safe, clean and
comfortable. The zoo or wild animal park on request by a legally blind person
who is required to leave that person's dog guide or service dog pursuant to
this subsection shall provide a sighted escort if the legally blind person is
unaccompanied by a sighted person.
G.The driver of a vehicle approaching a legally
blind pedestrian who is carrying a cane that is predominately white or metallic
in color, who is using a service animal or who is assisted by a sighted person
shall yield the rightofway and take reasonable precautions to
avoid injury to the pedestrian and the service animal. The pedestrian has the
same rights as any other person whether or not the pedestrian is carrying the
cane, using a service animal or being assisted by a sighted person. Drivers
shall take the same precautions with respect to pedestrians who have a
disability other than blindness and their service animals. A driver who
violates this subsection is liable for damages for any injury caused to the
pedestrian or the service animal.
H.Any person or entity that violates subsections subsection A, through
B, C, D, E, F or G of
this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
I.This section is not intended to affect any civil
remedies available for a violation of this section.
J.For the purposes of this section:
1."Direct threat to the health or safety of
others" means that a significant risk to the health or safety of others
exists and cannot be eliminated by modification of policies, practices or
procedures or by the provision of auxiliary aids or services.
2."Discriminate" means discriminatory
actions prescribed in section 411492.02 and includes:
(a)Refusing to permit an individual with a
disability to enter a public place with a service animal or interfering with
the individual's right to enter or use the public place.
(b)Failing to provide an individual with a
disability the same services and access to the same areas of the premises as
afforded to others.
(c)Attempting to impose a charge, fee or deposit
because an individual with a disability is accompanied by a service animal.
(d)Requiring an individual with a disability to
disclose disability related information. However, a public accommodation may
ask if the animal is a service animal being used because of a disability.
(e)Requiring provision of identification for the
service animal.
3."Individual with a disability" means an
individual who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
one or more of the major life activities of the individual.
4."Public place" means any office or
place of business or recreation to which the general public is invited, whether
operated by a public or private entity and includes all forms of conveyance,
including taxis, tow trucks and ambulances.
5."Service animal" means any dog or
miniature horse that is individually trained or in training to do work or perform tasks for
the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory,
psychiatric, intellectual or other mental disability.Service animal
does not include other species of animals, whether wild or domestic or trained
or untrained.
6."Wild animal park" means an entity that
is open to the public on a regular basis, that is licensed by the United States
department of agriculture as an exhibit and that is operating primarily to
conserve, propagate and exhibit wild and exotic animals. END_STATUTE

