







REFERENCE TITLE: advisory council; Indian health care.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2312









Introduced by
Representatives
  Hale, Benally, Saldate, Velasquez: Alston, Meyer, Rios, Wheeler, Senator
  Bradley





AN ACT

Amending sections
362902.01 and 362902.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
the Arizona advisory council on Indian health care.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-2902.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2902.01.Arizona advisory council on Indian health care;
membership; compensation; meetings
A.The Arizona
advisory council on Indian health care is established consisting to give tribal governments, tribal organizations and urban
Indian health care organizations in this state representation in shaping
medicaid and health care policies and laws that impact the populations they
serve.
B.The
council consists of the following members:
1.Twenty
members appointed by the governor.Each Arizona Indian tribe may
submit recommendations to the governor.There shall be no more than
one representative from each Arizona Indian tribe.Each member shall
represent an Arizona Indian tribe and shall be nominated by his tribal
governing body.The governor shall make appointments from the
following areas:
(a)Five
tribal members who represent health care agencies.At least one of
the appointees shall have experience in serving elderly clients or clients with
physical disabilities.
(b)Five
tribal members who represent social service agencies.At least one
of the appointees shall have experience in serving elderly clients or clients
with physical disabilities.
(c)Five
tribal members who represent agencies serving the persons with developmental
disabilities.
(d)Two tribal
members who represent tribal organizations or metropolitan Indian centers.
(e)Three tribal
members serving at large.
1.Twentytwo
representatives of the federally recognized American Indian tribes in this
state who are appointed by the governor.Each federally recognized
American Indian tribe in this state shall recommend to the governor names of
persons to represent the tribe on and for appointment to the
council.Recommendations shall be submitted by the tribe.
Recommended representatives may have experience serving the elderly, youth,
children or families or persons with disabilities.
2.One
representative from the inter tribal council of Arizona who is recommended by
the president of the inter tribal council of Arizona and who is appointed by
governor.
3.One
representative from an urban Indian health organization in this state that
receives Indian health services funding pursuant to 25 United States Code
chapter 18 who is recommended jointly by the urban Indian health organizations
and who is appointed by the governor.
2.4.One
representative from the Arizona health care cost containment system who is appointed by the
director.
3.5.One
representative from the department of health services who is appointed by the director of the
department of health services.
4.6.One
representative from the department of economic security who is appointed by the director of the
department of economic security.
7.One
representative from the Arizona early childhood development and health board
who is appointed by the executive director of the Arizona early childhood
development and health board.
C.A
majority of the council members shall be members of federally recognized
American Indian tribes in this state.
B.D.The council shall invite federal
representatives of the centers for medicare and medicaid services, the Indian
health service, the bureau of Indian
affairs, United States
social security administration and the United States department
of veterans affairs and the executive
office of management and budget shall be invited by the governor to serve as technical advisors
to the council. These representatives
shall be ex officio members and may serve a threeyear term on the
council.
C.E.Except
as provided in subsection A B, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this section, no a
member of the council may not be
an employee of this state.
D.F.Members
of the council are not eligible to receive compensation, but members appointed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 1 and
2 are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title
38, chapter 4, article 2.
E.G.Members
who are appointed
pursuant to subsection A B, paragraph paragraphs 1, 2
and 3 shall serve staggered two year three-year
terms.A tribal
member who is absent without notice from three consecutive meetings vacates his the individual's membership.The
governor shall appoint a new member within thirty days from
after the third unexcused absence. Vacancies occurring on the
council shall be filled for the balance of the term.
F.H.The council shall
elect, from persons appointed pursuant
to subsection B, paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this section, a chairman and vicechairman from its
membership chairperson
and vice chairperson.The chairman and vicechairman chairperson and vice chairperson
shall be members of a federally recognized Arizona American
Indian tribe in this
state.The election shall be held the first second
Monday in October of each July every other
year.The term of office shall be one year
two years.The council shall meet at least six times a
year and may meet more often at the call of the chairman or vicechairman chairperson or vice chairperson.A
majority of the seated council members constitutes a quorum.
G.I.A An
ex officio member serving
pursuant to subsection B D of this section is not
eligible to vote and is not a member for purposes of determining whether a
quorum is present.
H.J.Meetings are open
to the public and minutes of each meeting are open for public inspection. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
36-2902.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2902.02.Arizona advisory council on Indian health care; duties;
appropriation request
A.The Arizona
advisory council on Indian health care shall:
1.Hire and employ a director who shall hire and
employ staff, subject to legislative appropriation, for purposes relating to
the functions of the advisory
council.The staff shall provide technical assistance to tribal
governments on tribal health care initiatives.The director, on
behalf of the council, shall annually notify the director of the Arizona health
care cost containment system administration of the amount of appropriation
required by the council for the following fiscal year.
2.Assist
tribes and urban Indian health organizations to develop a comprehensive medical and public health care
delivery and financing system for
American Indians, specific to each Arizona Indian tribe, with a focus on
creating Indian health care demonstration projects pursuant to title XIX of the
social security act
systems to meet the needs of American Indian tribes in this state.In
performing this duty, the
advisory council shall:
(a)Develop a
comprehensive health care delivery and financing system, specific to each
Arizona Indian tribe, that uses title XIX funds and builds on currently
available private, state and federal funds.
(b)(a)Develop
Recommend new title XIX and
XXI programs, services, funding options, policies and demonstration
projects, specific to each Arizona to meet the needs of American Indian tribe
tribes and urban Indian health organizations, both on and off
reservations, in
cooperation with this state and the federal government.
(c)(b)Facilitate communications,
planning, advocacy and
discussion among tribes, and urban Indian health organizations in
this state and with this state and federal agencies regarding
operations, financing, policy and legislation relating to Indian medical and public health care.
(d)(c)Recommend and advocate tribal,
state and federal policy and legislation that supports
support the design and implementation of medical and public health care delivery and
financing systems specific to each
Arizona Indian tribe for
tribes and urban Indian health organizations in this state.
(d)Conduct and commission studies
and research to further the purpose of the council and to address identified
Indian health care disparities in this state.
(e)Conduct periodic public hearings
to gather input and recommendations from tribal populations on their health
care issues and concerns.
(f)Apply for and seek grants,
contracts and funding to further the purpose of the council. The funding shall
supplement and not diminish annual appropriations for the council.
(e)(g)Notwithstanding section 362903.01,
subsection B, in conjunction with the administration and a tribe that operates a temporary assistance for needy
families program, request a federal waiver from the United States
department of health and human services that allows tribal governments that perform
eligibility determinations for temporary assistance for needy families programs
to perform the medicaid eligibility determinations for persons who apply for
services pursuant to section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision
(a).If the waiver is approved, the state shall provide the state
matching monies for the administrative costs associated with the medicaid
eligibility based on federal guidelines.As part of the waiver, the
administration shall recoup from a tribal government all federal fiscal sanctions
that result from inaccurate eligibility determinations.
(f)(h)Perform other duties as requested
by the legislature.
B.The director, on notification by the advisory council, shall include
the amount of the council's appropriation
request in the administration's agency's annual appropriations
request. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Retention of members
Notwithstanding section 362902.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, all persons serving as members of the Arizona
advisory council on Indian health care on the effective date of this act may
continue to serve until the expiration of their normal terms. The governor
shall make all subsequent appointments as prescribed by statute.

