







REFERENCE TITLE: central Arizona project board;
  membership







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2318









Introduced by
Representatives
  Hale, Andrade, Benally, Bolding, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Rios,
  Saldate, Wheeler: Alston, Clark, Gonzales, Larkin, McCune Davis, Mendez,
  Meyer, Velasquez, Senator Bradley





AN ACT

amending section
48-3708, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to multi-county water conservation
districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-3708, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-3708.Board of directors; weighted voting; members; term;
nonvoting member; compensation
A.A district shall be administered by a board of
directors to be determined as follows:
1.The qualified electors from each county in the
district that has a population of less than six hundred thousand persons shall
elect one director.
2.The qualified electors from each county in the
district that has a population of at least six hundred thousand persons but not
more than two million one hundred thousand persons shall elect four directors.
3.The qualified electors from each county in the
district that has a population of more than two million one hundred thousand
persons shall elect ten directors.
B.Each director is entitled to a weighted vote that
is determined as follows:
1.The director from a county represented by one
director is entitled to one vote.
2.The directors from a county represented by four
directors are each entitled to a vote equal to the population of that county
divided by the population of the least populous county and divided by four.
3.The directors from a county represented by ten
directors are each entitled to a vote equal to the population of that county
divided by the population of the least populous county and divided by ten.
C.Except
for a director who is appointed pursuant to subsection D of this section, a
director shall be a qualified elector of the county from which the director is
elected and shall serve a term of six years.Each director shall
assume his duties on January 1 after the director's election or appointment.
D.In
addition to the directors prescribed by subsection A of this section, the board
of directors shall include one nonvoting member who shall be appointed by the
governor from a list of three persons who hold elected tribal office for an
Indian tribe in this state, two of whom are recommended by an organization that
is a statewide council of Indian tribes and one of whom represents an Indian
tribe in this state with a population of more than one hundred thousand
persons.A person appointed pursuant to this subsection:
1.Shall
serve a four-year term or shall serve until the appointee is no longer holding
an elected tribal office, whichever occurs earlier. Any vacancy in the office
of a nonvoting member shall be filled by appointment of the governor from a
list of three persons who hold elected tribal office for an Indian tribe in
this state, two of whom are recommended by an organization that is a statewide
council of Indian tribes and one of whom represents an Indian tribe in this state
with a population of more than one hundred thousand persons.
2.Is
eligible to attend and participate in meetings of the board of directors, serve
on committees of the board and, except for voting, otherwise has full
privileges of membership on the board of directors, including reimbursement for
travel and subsistence while engaged in the business of the district in the
same manner as is provided by law for state officers.
D.E.Except as provided in
subsection D of this section, a vacancy on the board of directors
shall be filled by appointment by the governor.
E.F.Each director
shall serve without compensation, except that the director shall be reimbursed
for travel and subsistence while engaged in the business of the district in the
same manner as is provided by law for state officers.
F.G.Members of the
board and officers shall be public officers and shall be subject to all
provisions of law applicable to such officers.The provisions of
title 38, chapter 3, article 8, relating to conflict of interest, are
applicable to all officers and employees of the district. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Initial term of nonvoting tribal member
The initial term of office of the nonvoting tribal member of
the board of directors begins on January 1, 2017 and is for a term as otherwise
prescribed by section 48-3708, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this
act.

