






REFERENCE TITLE: crime victims' rights; facility dog 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2375









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending title
13, chapter 40, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 134442;
relating to crime victims' rights.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 13, chapter 40, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-4442, to read:
START_STATUTE13-4442. Use of a facility dog by a minor victim in court
proceedings; definition
A.The court
shall afford a victim who is under eighteen years of age the opportunity to
have a facility dog accompany the victim while testifying in court. A party
seeking the use of a facility dog must file a notice with the court that
includes the certification of the facility dog and certifies that the facility
dog is adequately insured.
B.If a
victim who is under eighteen years of age is accompanied by a facility dog, The
court shall instruct the jury on the presence of the facility dog. the
instruction must inform the jury that the facility dog is a trained animal, is not
a pet owned by the victim witness and that the presence of the facility dog may
not be interpreted as reflecting on the truthfulness of the testimony that is
offered.
C.For the
purposes of this section, "facility dog" means a dog that is a
graduate of an assistance dog organization that is a member of an organization
or entity whose main purpose is to improve the areas of training, placement and
utilization of assistance dogs, staff and volunteer education and to establish
and promote standards of excellence in all areas of assistance dog acquisition,
training and partnership. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Intent
It is the intent of the legislature to protect the right of
crime victims to be treated with fairness, respect and dignity and to be free
from intimidation, harassment or abuse throughout the criminal justice
process. The legislature finds that crime victims in this state have a
constitutional right to justice and due process, to be treated with fairness,
to restitution and to have all rules governing criminal procedure protect
victims' rights and to have these rules be subject to amendment or repeal by
the legislature to ensure the protection of these rights. Further, the
legislature has the constitutional authority to enact substantive and
procedural laws to define, implement, preserve and protect the rights
guaranteed to victims. Section 13-4442, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by
this act, is enacted pursuant to these rights and this constitutional grant of
authority.

