







REFERENCE TITLE: supreme court; reports; website posting







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2383









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending sections
12102.01, 12102.02 and 12113, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to the supreme court.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 12-102.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-102.01.Criminal case processing and enforcement improvement fund
A.The criminal case processing and enforcement
improvement fund is established consisting of monies appropriated to the fund.The
purpose of the fund is to improve the processing of criminal cases in the
superior court and the justice courts and the enforcement of court orders,
including the collection of court ordered fees, fines, penalties, assessments,
sanctions and forfeitures.
B.The supreme court shall administer the
fund.The supreme court shall allocate monies in the fund to
counties for the planning and implementation of collaborative projects that are
designed to improve the processing of criminal cases and the enforcement of
court orders, including the collection of court ordered fees, fines, penalties,
assessments, sanctions and forfeitures.At a minimum, each project
shall involve the county attorney, county public defender, county legal
defender, county contract indigent defense counsel, superior court, clerk of
the superior court, county manager and justice courts in the
county.Additional criminal justice entities may also be included in
the project.
C.To be eligible for funding, pursuant to this
section, a county shall submit to the supreme court a plan that demonstrates
how the county attorney, county public defender, county legal defender, county
contract indigent defense counsel, superior court including the clerk of the
superior court, justice courts and other identified criminal justice entities
will work together collaboratively to both:
1.Identify current problems with criminal case
processing and the enforcement of court orders, including the collection of
court ordered fees, fines, penalties, assessments, sanctions and forfeitures.
2.Identify possible solutions and efficiencies to
improve the case processing time and the enforcement of court orders, including
the collection of court ordered fees, fines, penalties, assessments, sanctions
and forfeitures.
D.By January 8 of each year, the supreme court
shall report to the governor, the legislature, each county board of
supervisors, the joint legislative budget committee and the Arizona criminal
justice commission on the progress of the criminal case processing projects and
the enforcement of court orders, including the collection of court ordered
fees, fines, penalties, assessments, sanctions and forfeitures.The
county attorney, indigent defense counsel and county board of supervisors in
each county and the attorney general shall assist the supreme court in
preparing the report by providing information relevant to the
report.This information may be combined into one report with the
information required pursuant to section 12102.02, subsection D. The report shall be submitted
electronically. by February 1 of each year, the supreme court shall post the
report on the supreme court's website.
E.All monies distributed or spent from the fund
shall be used to supplement, not supplant, funding at the level provided in
fiscal year 19971998 by the counties and the state to improve the
processing of criminal cases and the enforcement of court orders, including the
collection of court ordered fees, fines, penalties, assessments, sanctions and
forfeitures.
F.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations and are subject
to legislative appropriation.
G.On notice from the supreme court, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
Sec.2.Section 12-102.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-102.02.State aid to the courts fund
A.The state aid to the courts fund is established
consisting of monies appropriated to the fund and monies allocated pursuant to
section 412421, subsections B and J. The purpose of the fund is to
provide state aid to the superior court, including the clerk of the superior
court, and justice courts for the processing of criminal cases.
B.The supreme court shall administer the fund. The
supreme court shall allocate monies in the fund to the superior court,
including the clerk of the court, and the justice courts in each county
according to the following composite index formula:
1.The three year average of the total felony
filings in the superior court in the county, divided by the statewide three
year average of the total felony filings in the superior court.
2.The county population, as adopted by the
department of economic security, divided by the statewide population, as
adopted by the department of economic security.
3.The sum of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection divided by two equals the
composite index.
4.The composite index for each county shall be used
as the multiplier against the total funds appropriated from the state general
fund and other monies distributed to the fund pursuant to section 412421.
C.The presiding judge of the superior court in each
county, in coordination with the chairman of the county board of supervisors or
the chairman's designee, the clerk of the superior court, the presiding justice
of the peace and an elected justice of the peace of the county shall submit a
plan to the supreme court that details how the funds allocated to the county
pursuant to this section will be used and how the plan will assist the county
in improving criminal case processing.The presiding judge of the
superior court, the chairman of the board of supervisors or the chairman's
designee, the clerk of the superior court, the presiding justice of the peace
and an elected justice of the peace shall sign the plan and shall indicate
their endorsement of the plan as submitted or shall outline their disagreement
with any provisions of the plan. The supreme court may approve the plan or
require changes to the plan in order to achieve the goal of improved criminal
case processing.
D.By January 8, 2001 and every year thereafter by January 8 of each year, the supreme court shall report
to the governor, the legislature, the joint legislative budget committee, each
county board of supervisors and the Arizona criminal justice commission on the
expenditure of the fund monies for the prior fiscal year and on the progress
made in achieving the goal of improved criminal case
processing.This information may be combined into one report with
the information required pursuant to section 12102.01, subsection D. The report shall be submitted
electronically. By February 1 of each year, the supreme court shall post the
report on the supreme court's website.
E.All monies spent or distributed from the fund
shall be used to supplement, not supplant, funding at the level provided in
fiscal year 19971998 by the counties for the processing of criminal
cases in the superior court, including the office of the clerk of the superior
court, and justice courts.
F.Monies in the state aid to the courts fund are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations and monies allocated pursuant to section 412421,
subsections B and J are subject to legislative appropriation. Any state
general fund monies appropriated to the fund may be spent without further
legislative appropriation.
G.On notice from the supreme court, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 12-113, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-113.Judicial collection enhancement fund; purpose;
administration; report; definition
A.A judicial collection enhancement fund is
established consisting of monies received from:
1.The time payment fee established in section 12116.
2.The surcharge paid by a person attending a court
ordered diversion program pursuant to section 12114.
3.Monies deposited in the fund pursuant to section
12114.01, section 12119.01, subsection B, paragraph 1, section 12120.31,
subsection D, paragraph 1, section 12284.03, subsection A, paragraph 7,
section 22281, subsection C, paragraph 1, section 22404,
subsection C, paragraph 1 and section 41-178.
4.Electronic filing and access fees collected
pursuant to sections 12119.02 and 12120.31.
B.Courts wishing to receive monies from the
judicial collection enhancement fund shall submit a plan to the supreme
court.Subject to legislative appropriation, the fund monies shall
be used according to plans approved by the supreme court to train court
personnel, improve, maintain and enhance the ability to collect and manage
monies assessed or received by the courts, including restitution, child
support, fines and civil penalties, to improve court automation, to improve
case processing or the administration of justice and for probation services.
C.The supreme court shall administer the fund and
may expend monies in the fund, subject to legislative appropriation, for local,
regional or statewide projects. The supreme court may directly provide or
contract for services consistent with the purposes of the fund. Monies from
the fund shall supplement monies already provided to local courts for purposes
consistent with the purposes of the fund.
D.By January 8 of each year, the supreme court
shall report to the governor and the legislature, for the prior fiscal year,
the total monies collected, the amount spent and for what purposes, including
an exact explanation of funds defined as administration of the fund, the amount
remaining in the fund and the number of employees who are paid from the fund
and their job descriptions. The report shall also detail the progress made in
improving the ability of the courts to collect monies. The report shall be submitted electronically. By February 1
of each year, the supreme court shall post the report on the supreme court's
website.
E.On notice from the supreme court, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
F.After the court determines the amount due, the
court shall transmit to the county treasurer each month the fees collected
pursuant to section 12116, except that municipal courts shall transmit
to the city treasurer each month the fees so collected.
G.The county or city treasurer shall transmit to
the state treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of each month the fees
collected pursuant to subsection F of this section for deposit in the judicial
collection enhancement fund.
H.For the purposes of this article, "court
authorized diversion program" means a program in which an individual who
is charged with a civil or criminal traffic offense or any other criminal
offense is not prosecuted for the offense on the successful completion of an
authorized diversion program.Successful completion of a defensive
driving school program resulting in dismissal of a civil or criminal traffic
offense is considered a court authorized diversion program under this section. END_STATUTE END_STATUTE

