







REFERENCE TITLE: forfeiture; criminal conviction;
  procedures; remedies 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2369









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe, Barton: Cobb, Finchem, Townsend





AN ACT

amending sections
11584, 12-348, 12-349, 132301, 132314, 132314.01,
132314.03, 134304, 134305, 134306 and 134308,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 134309, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 39, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a
new section 13-4309; amending sections 134310, 134311, 134312,
134314 and 13-4315, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to forfeiture.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-584, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-584.Public defender; duties; reimbursement
A.The public defender shall, on order of the court, shall defend, advise and counsel any person
who is entitled to counsel as a matter of law and who is not financially able
to employ counsel in the following proceedings and circumstances:
1.Offenses triable in the superior court or justice
courts at all stages of the proceedings, including the preliminary examination.
2.Extradition hearings.
3.Mental disorder hearings only if appointed by the
court under title 36, chapter 5.
4.Involuntary commitment hearings held pursuant to
title 36, chapter 18, only if appointed by the court.
5.Involuntary commitment hearings held pursuant to
title 36, chapter 37, if appointed by the court as provided in section 363704,
subsection C and the board of supervisors has advised the presiding judge of
the county that the public defender is authorized to accept these appointments.
6.Juvenile delinquency and incorrigibility
proceedings only if appointed by the court under section 8221.
7.Appeals to a higher court or courts.
8.All juvenile proceedings other than delinquency
and incorrigibility proceedings under paragraph 6 of this subsection, including
serving as a guardian ad litem, if appointed by the court pursuant to section 8221
and the board of supervisors has advised the presiding judge of the county that
the public defender is authorized to accept these appointments.
9.All mental health hearings regarding release
recommendations held before the psychiatric security review board pursuant to
section 133994, if appointed by the court as provided in section 31502,
subsection A, paragraph 8 and the board of supervisors has advised the
presiding judge of the superior court in the county that the public defender is
authorized to accept these appointments.
10.As attorneys in any other proceeding or
circumstance in which a party is entitled to counsel as a matter of law if the
court appoints the public defender and the board of supervisors has advised the
presiding judge of the county that the public defender is authorized to accept
these appointments as specified.
11.All
forfeiture proceedings held pursuant to title 13.
B.The public defender shall perform the following
duties:
1.Keep a record of all services rendered by the
public defender in that capacity and file with the board of supervisors an
annual report of those services.
2.By December 1 of each year, file with the
presiding judge of the superior court, the chief probation officer and the
board of supervisors an annual report on the average cost of defending a felony
case.
C.Although the services of the public defender or
court appointed counsel shall be without expense to the defendant, the
juvenile, a parent or any other party, the court may make the following
assessments:
1.Order an indigent administrative assessment of
not more than twentyfive dollars.
2.Order an administrative assessment fee of not
more than twentyfive dollars to be paid by the juvenile or the
juvenile's parent or guardian.
3.Require that the defendant, including a defendant
who is placed on probation, a juvenile, a parent or any other party who is
appointed counsel under subsection A of this section repay to the county a
reasonable amount to reimburse the county for the cost of the person's legal
services. Reimbursement for legal services in a delinquency, dependency or termination
proceeding shall be ordered pursuant to section 8221. Reimbursement for
legal services in a guardianship or conservatorship proceeding shall be ordered
pursuant to section 14-5414.
D.In determining the amount and method of payment
the court shall take into account the financial resources of the defendant and
the nature of the burden that the payment will impose.
E.Assessments collected pursuant to subsection C of
this section shall be paid into the county general fund in the account designed
for use solely by the public defender and court appointed counsel to defray the
costs of public defenders and court appointed counsel. The assessments shall
supplement, not supplant, funding provided by counties for public defense,
legal defense and contract indigent defense counsel in each county.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 12-348, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-348.Award of fees and other expenses against the state or a
city, town or county; reduction or denial of award; application; basis for
amount of award; source of award; definitions
A.In addition to any costs that are awarded as
prescribed by statute, a court shall award fees and other expenses to any party
other than this state or a city, town or county that prevails by an
adjudication on the merits in any of the following:
1.A civil action brought by this state or a city,
town or county against the party.
2.A court proceeding to review a state agency
decision pursuant to chapter 7, article 6 of this title or any other statute
authorizing judicial review of agency, city, town or county decisions.
3.A proceeding pursuant to section 411034.
4.A special action proceeding brought by the party
to challenge an action by this state or a city, town or county against the
party.
5.An appeal by this state to a court of law from a
decision of the personnel board under title 41, chapter 4, article 6.
6.A civil
action brought by the party to challenge to the seizure and sale of personal property
by this state or a city, town or county.
B.In addition to any costs that are awarded as
prescribed by statute, except as provided in subsection C of this section, a
court may award fees and other expenses to any party, other than this state or
a city, town or county, that prevails by an adjudication on the merits in an
action brought by the party against this state or a city, town or county
challenging:
1.The assessment, collection or refund of taxes or
in an action brought by this state or a city, town or county against the party
to enforce the assessment or collection of taxes or the denial of a refund.
2.The adequacy or regularity of notice of
delinquent taxes.
3.The regularity of sales of property for
delinquent taxes.
C.The court in its discretion may deny the award
provided for in this section or may reduce the award if it finds that any of
the following applies:
1.During the course of the proceeding the prevailing
party unduly and unreasonably protracted the final resolution of the matter.
2.The reason that the party other than this state
or a city, town or county has prevailed is an intervening change in the
applicable law.
3.The prevailing party refused an offer of civil
settlement that was at least as favorable to the party as the relief ultimately
granted.
D.A party may apply
pursuant to the applicable procedural rules for an award of attorney fees and
other expenses authorized under this section and shall include as part of the
application evidence of the party's eligibility for the award and the amount
sought, including an itemized statement from the attorneys and experts stating
the actual time expended in representing the party and the rate at which the
fees were computed.
E.The court shall base any award of fees as
provided in this section on prevailing market rates for the kind and quality of
the services furnished, except that:
1.An expert is not eligible for compensation at a
rate in excess of the highest rate of compensation for experts paid by this
state or a city, town or county except for awards made pursuant to subsection B
of this section.
2.Except for awards made pursuant to subsection B
of this section, the award of attorney fees may not exceed the amount that the
prevailing party has paid or has agreed to pay the attorney or a maximum amount
of seventyfive dollars per hour unless the court determines that an
increase in the cost of living or a special factor, such as the limited availability
of qualified attorneys for the proceeding involved, justifies a higher fee.
3.For awards made pursuant to subsection B of this
section, the award of attorney fees may not exceed the amount that the
prevailing party has paid or agreed to pay the attorney or a maximum amount of
three hundred fifty dollars per hour.
4.Except for awards made pursuant to subsection B
of this section, an award of fees against a city, town or county as provided in
this section shall not exceed ten thousand dollars.
5.For awards made pursuant to subsection B of this
section, an award of fees against this state or a city, town or county shall
not exceed seventy-five thousand dollars for fees incurred at each level of
judicial appeal.
6.For each calendar year beginning from and after
December 31, 2015, the attorney general
shall adjust the income dollar amounts for maximum awards made
pursuant to subsections subsection B and E of this section shall be adjusted by the attorney general and paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this
subsection according to the average annual change in the
metropolitan Phoenix consumer price index published by the United States bureau
of labor statistics.The revised dollar amounts shall be raised to
the nearest whole dollar.The income dollar amounts may not be
revised below the amounts prescribed in the prior calendar year.
F.The particular state agency over which a party
prevails shall pay the fees and expenses awarded as provided in this section
from any monies appropriated to the agency for that purpose. If no agency is
involved or if an agency fails or refuses to pay fees and other expenses within
thirty days after demand by a person who has received an award pursuant to this
section, and if no further review or appeals of the award are pending, the
person may file a claim for the fees and other expenses with the department of
administration, which shall pay the claim within thirty days, in the same
manner as an uninsured property loss under title 41, chapter 3.1, article 1.
If, at the time the agency failed or refused to pay the award, it had
appropriated monies either designated or assignable for the purpose of paying
awards, the legislature shall reduce the agency's operating appropriation for
the following year by the amount of the award and shall appropriate the amount
of the reduction to the department of administration as reimbursement for the
loss.
G.A city, town or county shall pay fees and
expenses awarded as provided in this section within thirty days after demand by
a party who has received an award if no further review or appeal of the award
is pending.
H.This section does not:
1.Apply to an action arising from a proceeding
before this state or a city, town or county in which the role of this state or
a city, town or county was to determine the eligibility or entitlement of an
individual to a monetary benefit or its equivalent, to adjudicate a dispute or
issue between private parties or to establish or fix a rate.
2.Apply to proceedings brought by this state
pursuant to title 13 or28.This paragraph does apply to a forfeiture proceeding
pursuant to title 13, chapter 39.
3.Entitle a party to obtain fees and other expenses
incurred in making an application for an award pursuant to this section for
fees and other expenses.
4.Apply to proceedings involving eminent domain,
foreclosure, collection of judgment debts or proceedings in which this state or
a city, town or county is a nominal party.
5.Personally obligate any officer or employee of
this state or a city, town or county for the payment of an award entered under
this section.
6.Apply, except as provided in subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section, to proceedings involving the personnel board under
title 41, chapter 4, article 6.
7.Apply to proceedings brought by a city, town or
county pursuant to title 13 or 28.
8.Apply to proceedings brought by a city, town or
county on collection of taxes or pursuant to traffic ordinances or to criminal
proceedings brought by a city, town or county on ordinances which
that contain a criminal penalty or fine for violations of those
ordinances.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Fees and other expenses" means the
reasonable expenses of expert witnesses, the reasonable cost of any study,
analysis, engineering report, test or project which
that the court finds to be directly related to and necessary for
the presentation of the party's case and reasonable and necessary attorney
fees, and in the case of an action to review an agency decision pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section, all fees and other expenses that are
incurred in the contested case proceedings in which the decision was rendered.
2."Party" means an individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, limited liability
partnership, association or public or private organization.
3."State" means this state and any
agency, officer, department, board or commission of this state.
4."Taxes" includes all taxes and related
levies and assessments addressed in section 12163. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 12-349, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-349.Unjustified actions; attorney fees, expenses and double
damages; exceptions; definition
A.Except as otherwise provided by and not
inconsistent with another statute, in any civil action commenced or appealed in
a court of record in this state, the court shall assess reasonable attorney
fees, expenses and, at the court's discretion, double damages of not to exceed
five thousand dollars against an attorney or party, including this state and
political subdivisions of this state, if the attorney or party does any of the
following:
1.Brings or defends a claim without substantial
justification.
2.Brings or defends a claim solely or primarily for
delay or harassment.
3.Unreasonably expands or delays the proceeding.
4.Engages in abuse of discovery.
B.The court may allocate the payment of attorney
fees among the offending attorneys and parties, jointly or severally, and may
assess separate amounts against an offending attorney or party.
C.Attorney fees shall not be assessed if after
filing an action a voluntary dismissal is filed for any claim or defense within
a reasonable time after the attorney or party filing the dismissal knew or
reasonably should have known that the claim or defense was without substantial
justification.
D.This section does not apply to the adjudication
of civil traffic violations or to any proceedings brought by this state
pursuant to title 13, except for a
proceeding brought pursuant to title 13, chapter 39.
E.Notwithstanding any other law, this state and
political subdivisions of this state may be awarded attorney fees pursuant to
this section.
F.For the purposes of this section, "without
substantial justification" means that the claim or defense is groundless
and is not made in good faith. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 13-2301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2301.Definitions
A.For the purposes of
sections 132302, 132303 and 132304:
1."Collect an
extension of credit" means to induce in any way any person to make repayment
of that extension.
2."Creditor"
means any person making an extension of credit or any person claiming by, under
or through any person making an extension of credit.
3."Debtor"
means any person to whom an extension of credit is made or any person who
guarantees the repayment of an extension of credit, or in any manner undertakes
to indemnify the creditor against loss resulting from the failure of any person
to whom an extension is made to repay the extension.
4."Extend
credit" means to make or renew any loan or to enter into any agreement,
tacit or express, whereby the repayment or satisfaction of any debt or claim,
whether acknowledged or disputed, valid or invalid, and however arising, may or
shall be deferred.
5."Extortionate
extension of credit" means any extension of credit with respect to which
it is the understanding of the creditor and the debtor at the time the
extension is made that delay in making repayment or failure to make repayment
could result in the use of violence or other criminal means to cause harm to
the person or the reputation or property of any person.
6."Extortionate
means" means the use, or an express or implicit threat of use, of violence
or other criminal means to cause harm to the person or the reputation or property
of any person.
7."Repayment of
any extension of credit" means the repayment, satisfaction or discharge in
whole or in part of any debt or claim, acknowledged or disputed, valid or
invalid, resulting from or in connection with that extension of credit.
B.For the purposes of
section 132305, 132306 or 132307:
1."Dealer in
property" means a person who buys and sells property as a business.
2."Stolen
property" means property of another as defined in section 131801
that has been the subject of any unlawful taking.
3."Traffic"
means to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of stolen
property to another person, or to buy, receive, possess or obtain control of
stolen property, with the intent to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or
otherwise dispose of the property to another person.
C.For the purposes of
this chapter:
1."Animal
activity" means a commercial enterprise that uses animals for food,
clothing or fiber production, agriculture or biotechnology.
2."Animal facility"
means a building or premises where a commercial activity in which the use of
animals is essential takes place, including a zoo, rodeo, circus, amusement
park, hunting preserve and horse and dog event.
3."Animal or
ecological terrorism" means any felony in violation of section 132312,
subsection B that involves at least three persons acting in concert, that
involves the intentional or knowing infliction of property damage in an amount
of more than ten thousand dollars to the property that is used by a person for
the operation of a lawfully conducted animal activity or to a commercial
enterprise that is engaged in a lawfully operated animal facility or research
facility and that involves either:
(a)The use of a deadly
weapon or dangerous instrument.
(b)The intentional or
knowing infliction of serious physical injury on a person engaged in a lawfully
conducted animal activity or participating in a lawfully conducted animal
facility or research facility.
4."Biological
agent" means any microorganism, virus, infectious substance or biological
product that may be engineered through biotechnology or any naturally occurring
or bioengineered component of any microorganism, virus, infectious substance or
biological product and that is capable of causing any of the following:
(a)Death, disease or
physical injury in a human, animal, plant or other living organism.
(b)The
deterioration or contamination of air, food, water, equipment, supplies or
material of any kind.
5."Combination"
means persons who collaborate in carrying on or furthering the activities or
purposes of a criminal syndicate even though such persons may not know each
other's identity, membership in the combination changes from time to time or
one or more members may stand in a wholesalerretailer or other arm's
length relationship with others as to activities or dealings between or among
themselves in an illicit operation.
6."Communication
service provider" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133001.
7."Criminal
syndicate" means any combination of persons or enterprises engaging, or
having the purpose of engaging, on a continuing basis in conduct that violates
any one or more provisions of any felony statute of this state.
8."Explosive
agent" means an explosive as defined in section 133101 and
flammable fuels or fire accelerants in amounts over fifty gallons but excludes:
(a)Fireworks as defined
in section 361601.
(b)Firearms.
(c)A propellant
actuated device or propellant actuated industrial tool.
(d)A device that is
commercially manufactured primarily for the purpose of illumination.
(e)A rocket having a
propellant charge of less than four ounces.
9."Material
support or resources" includes money or other financial securities,
financial services, lodging, sustenance, training, safehouses, false
documentation or identification, communications equipment, facilities, weapons,
lethal substances, explosives, personnel, transportation, disguises and other
physical assets but does not include medical assistance, legal assistance or
religious materials.
10."Public
establishment" means a structure that is owned, leased or operated by this
state or a political subdivision of this state or a health care institution as
defined in section 36401.
11."Research
facility" means a laboratory, institution, medical care facility,
government facility, public or private educational institution or nature
preserve at which a scientific test, experiment or investigation involving the
use of animals is lawfully carried out, conducted or attempted.
12."Terrorism"
means any felony, including any completed or preparatory offense, that involves
the use of a deadly weapon or a weapon of mass destruction or the intentional
or knowing infliction of serious physical injury with the intent to either:
(a)Influence the policy
or affect the conduct of this state or any of the political subdivisions,
agencies or instrumentalities of this state.
(b)Cause substantial
damage to or substantial interruption of public communications, communication
service providers, public transportation, common carriers, public utilities,
public establishments or other public services.
13."Toxin"
means the toxic material of plants, animals, microorganisms, viruses, fungi or
infectious substances or a recombinant molecule, whatever its origin or method
of reproduction, including:
(a)Any poisonous
substance or biological product that may be engineered through biotechnology
and that is produced by a living organism.
(b)Any
poisonous isomer or biological product, homolog or derivative of such
substance.
14."Vector"
means a living organism or molecule, including a recombinant molecule or
biological product that may be engineered through biotechnology, that is
capable of carrying a biological agent or toxin to a host.
15."Weapon of mass
destruction" means:
(a)Any device or object
that is designed or that the person intends to use to cause multiple deaths or
serious physical injuries through the use of an explosive agent or the release,
dissemination or impact of a toxin, biological agent, poisonous chemical, or
its precursor, or any vector.
(b)Except as authorized
and used in accordance with a license, registration or exemption by the
radiation regulatory agency pursuant to section 30672, any device or
object that is designed or that the person intends to use to release radiation
or radioactivity at a level that is dangerous to human life.
D.For the purposes of
sections 132312, 132313, 132314 and 132315, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Control",
in relation to an enterprise, means the possession of sufficient means to
permit substantial direction over the affairs of an enterprise and, in relation
to property, means to acquire or possess.
2."Enterprise"
means any corporation, partnership, association, labor union or other legal
entity or any group of persons associated in fact although not a legal entity.
3."Financial
institution" means any business under the jurisdiction of the department
of financial institutions or a banking or securities regulatory agency of the
United States, a business coming within the definition of a bank, financial
agency or financial institution as prescribed by 31 United States Code section
5312 or 31 Code of Federal Regulations section 1010.100 or a business under the
jurisdiction of the securities division of the corporation commission, the
state real estate department or the department of insurance.
4."Racketeering"
means any criminal act,
including any preparatory or completed offense, that is chargeable or indictable results in a conviction under the laws of the
state or country in which the criminal act
occurred and, if the criminal act
occurred in a state or country other than this state, that would be chargeable
or indictable under the laws of this state if the criminal act had occurred in this state, and
that would be punishable by imprisonment for more than one year under the laws
of this state and, if the criminal act
occurred in a state or country other than this state, under the laws of the
state or country in which the criminal act
occurred, regardless of whether the act
is charged or indicted, and the criminal act involves either:
(a)Terrorism, animal
terrorism or ecological terrorism that results or is intended to result in a
risk of serious physical injury or death.
(b)Any of the following
criminal acts if
committed for financial gain:
(i)Homicide.
(ii)Robbery.
(iii)Kidnapping.
(iv)Forgery.
(v)Theft.
(vi)Bribery.
(vii)Gambling.
(viii)Usury.
(ix)Extortion.
(x)Extortionate
extensions of credit.
(xi)Prohibited drugs,
marijuana or other prohibited chemicals or substances.
(xii)Trafficking in
explosives, weapons or stolen property.
(xiii)Participating in
a criminal syndicate.
(xiv)Obstructing or
hindering criminal investigations or prosecutions.
(xv)Asserting false
claims including, but not limited to, false claims asserted through fraud or
arson.
(xvi)Intentional or
reckless false statements or publications concerning land for sale or lease or
sale of subdivided lands or sale and mortgaging of unsubdivided lands.
(xvii)Resale of realty
with intent to defraud.
(xviii)Intentional or
reckless fraud in the purchase or sale of securities.
(xix)Intentional or
reckless sale of unregistered securities or real property securities.
(xx)A scheme or
artifice to defraud.
(xxi)Obscenity.
(xxii)Sexual
exploitation of a minor.
(xxiii)Prostitution.
(xxiv)Restraint of
trade or commerce in violation of section 34252.
(xxv)Terrorism.
(xxvi)Money laundering.
(xxvii)Obscene or indecent
telephone communications to minors for commercial purposes.
(xxviii)Counterfeiting
marks as proscribed in section 441453.
(xxix)Animal terrorism
or ecological terrorism.
(xxx)Smuggling of human
beings.
(xxxi)Child
prostitution.
(xxxii)Sex trafficking.
(xxxiii)Trafficking of
persons for forced labor or services.
(xxxiv)Manufacturing,
selling or distributing misbranded drugs in violation of section 133406,
subsection A, paragraph 9.
5."Records"
means any book, paper, writing, computer program, data, image or information
that is collected, recorded, preserved or maintained in any form of storage
medium.
6."Remedy
racketeering" means to enter a civil judgment pursuant to this chapter or
chapter 39 of this title against property or a person who is subject to
liability, including liability for injury to the state that is caused by
racketeering or by actions in concert with racketeering.
E.For the purposes of
sections 132316, 132316.01 and 132316.02:
1."Access"
means to instruct, communicate with, store data in, retrieve data from or
otherwise make use of any resources of a computer, computer system or network.
2."Access
device" means any card, token, code, account number, electronic serial
number, mobile or personal identification number, password, encryption key,
biometric identifier or other means of account access, including a canceled or
revoked access device, that can be used alone or in conjunction with another
access device to obtain money, goods, services, computer or network access or
any other thing of value or that can be used to initiate a transfer of any
thing of value.
3."Computer"
means an electronic device that performs logic, arithmetic or memory functions
by the manipulations of electronic or magnetic impulses and includes all input,
output, processing, storage, software or communication facilities that are
connected or related to such a device in a system or network.
4."Computer
contaminant" means any set of computer instructions that is designed to
modify, damage, destroy, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system or network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information, computer system or network.Computer contaminant
includes a group of computer instructions, such as viruses or worms, that is
selfreplicating or selfpropagating and that is designed to
contaminate other computer programs or computer data, to consume computer
resources, to modify, destroy, record or transmit data or in some other fashion
to usurp the normal operation of the computer, computer system or network.
5."Computer
program" means a series of instructions or statements, in a form
acceptable to a computer, that permits the functioning of a computer system in
a manner designed to provide appropriate products from the computer system.
6."Computer
software" means a set of computer programs, procedures and associated
documentation concerned with the operation of a computer system.
7."Computer
system" means a set of related, connected or unconnected computer
equipment, devices and software, including storage, media and peripheral
devices.
8."Critical
infrastructure resource" means any computer or communications system or
network that is involved in providing services necessary to ensure or protect the
public health, safety or welfare, including services that are provided by any
of the following:
(a)Medical personnel
and institutions.
(b)Emergency services
agencies.
(c)Public and private
utilities, including water, power, communications and transportation services.
(d)Fire departments,
districts or volunteer organizations.
(e)Law enforcement
agencies.
(f)Financial
institutions.
(g)Public educational
institutions.
(h)Government agencies.
9."False or
fraudulent pretense" means the unauthorized use of an access device or the
use of an access device to exceed authorized access.
10."Financial
instrument" means any check, draft, money order, certificate of deposit,
letter of credit, bill of exchange, credit card or marketable security or any
other written instrument as defined in section 132001 that is
transferable for value.
11."Network"
includes a complex of interconnected computer or communication systems of any
type.
12."Property"
means financial instruments, information, including electronically produced
data, computer software and programs in either machine or human readable form,
and anything of value, tangible or intangible.
13."Proprietary or
confidential computer security information" means information about a
particular computer, computer system or network that relates to its access
devices, security practices, methods and systems, architecture, communications
facilities, encryption methods and system vulnerabilities and that is not made
available to the public by its owner or operator.
14."Services"
includes computer time, data processing, storage functions and all types of
communication functions. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 13-2314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2314.Racketeering; civil remedies by this state; definitions
A.The attorney general or a county attorney may
file an action in superior court on behalf of a person who sustains injury to
his person, business or property by racketeering as defined by section 132301,
subsection D, paragraph 4 or by a violation of section 132312 for the
recovery of treble damages and the costs of the suit, including reasonable
attorney fees, or to prevent, restrain,
or remedy racketeering as defined by section 132301, subsection D,
paragraph 4 or a violation of section 132312. If the person against whom
a racketeering claim has been asserted, including a forfeiture action or lien,
prevails on that claim, the person may be awarded costs and reasonable attorney
fees incurred in defense of that claim.In actions filed by the
state or a county, awards of costs and reasonable attorney fees are to be
assessed against and paid from monies acquired pursuant to sections 132314.01
and 132314.03.
B.The superior court has jurisdiction to prevent,
restrain, and remedy
racketeering as defined by section 132301, subsection D, paragraph 4 or
a violation of section 132312 after making provision for the rights of any
person who sustained injury to his person, business or property by the
racketeering conduct and after a hearing or trial, as appropriate, by issuing
appropriate orders.
C.Prior to
Before a determination of liability such conviction, the orders may include, but are not limited to, issuing
seizure warrants, entering findings of probable cause for in personam or in rem
forfeiture, entering restraining orders or prohibitions or taking such other
actions, including the acceptance of satisfactory performance bonds, the
creation of receiverships and the enforcement of constructive trusts, in
connection with any property or other interest subject to forfeiture, damages
or other remedies or restraints pursuant to this section as the court deems
proper.
D.Following a determination of liability such conviction, the orders may include, but are not limited to:
1.Ordering any person to divest himself of any
interest, direct or indirect, in any enterprise.
2.Imposing reasonable restrictions on the future
activities or investments of any person, including prohibiting any person from
engaging in the same type of endeavor as the enterprise engaged in, the
activities of which affect the laws of this state, to the extent the
constitutions of the United States and this state permit.
3.Ordering dissolution or reorganization of any
enterprise.
4.Ordering the payment of treble damages to those
persons injured by racketeering as defined by section 132301, subsection
D, paragraph 4 or a violation of section 132312.
5.Ordering the payment of all costs and expenses of
the prosecution and investigation of any offense included in the definition of
racketeering in section 132301, subsection D, paragraph 4 or a violation
of section 132312, civil and criminal, including reasonable attorney
fees, to be paid to the general fund of the state or the county which brings
the action.
6.In personam forfeiture pursuant to chapter 39 of
this title to the general fund of the state or county, as appropriate, to the extent that forfeiture
is not inconsistent with protecting the rights of any person who sustained
injury to his person, business or property by the racketeering conduct, of the
interest of a person in:
(a)Any property or interest in property acquired or
maintained by the person in violation of section 132312.
(b)Any interest in, security of, claims against or
property, office, title, licenseor contractual right of any kind
affording a source of influence over any enterprise or other property which that the person has acquired or maintained an
interest in or control of, conducted or participated in the conduct of in
violation of section 132312.
(c)All proceeds traceable to an offense included in
the definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection D, paragraph
4 and held by the person and all monies, negotiable instruments, securities and
other property used or intended to be used by the person in any manner or part
to facilitate commission of the offense and that the person either owned or
controlled for the purpose of that use.
(d)Any other property up to the value of the
subject property described in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
7.Payment to the general fund of the state or
county as appropriate of an amount equal to the gain that was acquired or
maintained through an offense included in the definition of racketeering in
section 132301, subsection D, paragraph 4 or a violation of section 132312
or that any person is liable for under this section.
E.A person who is liable for conduct described in
subsection D, paragraph 6, subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this section is
liable for the total value of all interests in property described in those
subdivisions. The court shall enter an order of forfeiture against the person
in the amount of the total value of all those interests less the value of any
interests that are forfeited before or at the time of the entry of the final
judgment.
F.A person or enterprise that acquires any property
through an offense included in the definition of racketeering in section 132301,
subsection D, paragraph 4 or through a violation of section 132312 is an
involuntary trustee.The involuntary trustee and any other person or
enterprise, except a bona fide purchaser for value who is reasonably without
notice of the unlawful conduct and who is not knowingly taking part in an
illegal transaction, hold the property, its proceeds and its fruits in
constructive trust for the benefit of persons entitled to remedies under this
section.
G.In addition to or in lieu of an action under this section the
attorney general or a county attorney may file an in rem action pursuant to
chapter 39 of this title for forfeiture, to the extent that forfeiture is not
inconsistent with protecting the rights of any person who sustained injury to
his person, business or property by the racketeering conduct, of:
1.Any property or interest in property acquired or
maintained by a person in violation of section 132312.
2.Any interest in, security of, claims against or
property, office, title, license or contractual right of any kind affording a
source of influence over any enterprise or other property which that
a person has acquired or maintained an interest in or control of,
conducted or participated in the conduct of in violation of section 132312.
3.All proceeds traceable to an offense included in
the definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection D,
paragraph 4 and all monies, negotiable instruments, securities and other
property used or intended to be used in any manner or part to facilitate the
commission of the offense.
H.A defendant convicted in any criminal proceeding
shall be precluded from subsequently denying the essential allegations of the
criminal offense of which he was convicted in any civil proceeding.For
the purposes of this subsection, a conviction may result from a verdict or plea
including a no contest plea.
I.Notwithstanding any law creating a lesser period,
the initiation of civil proceedings related to violations of any offense
included in the definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection
D, paragraph 4 or a violation of section 132312, including procedures
pursuant to chapter 39 of this title, shall be commenced within seven years
after actual discovery of the violation.
J.In any civil action brought pursuant to this
section, the attorney general or a county attorney may file with the clerk of
the superior court a certificate stating that the case is of special public
importance.A copy of that certificate shall be furnished immediately
by such clerk to the chief judge or presiding chief judge of the superior court
in the county in which such action is pending, and, upon receipt of such copy,
the judge shall immediately designate a judge to hear and determine the
action.The judge so designated shall promptly assign such action
for hearing, participate in the hearings and determination and cause the action
to be expedited.
K.The standard of proof in actions brought pursuant
to this section is the preponderance of the evidence test.
L.A civil action authorized by this section,
including proceedings pursuant to chapter 39 of this title, is remedial and not
punitive and does not limit and is not limited by any other previous or
subsequent civil or criminal action under this title or any other provision of
law.Civil remedies provided under this title are supplemental and
not mutually exclusive.
M.The attorney general may appear as amicus curiae
in any proceeding in which a claim under this section has been asserted,
including proceedings pursuant to chapter 39 of this title, or in which the
court is interpreting this chapter or chapter 39 of this title.A
party who files a notice of appeal from a civil action brought under this
chapter or chapter 39 of this title shall serve the notice and one copy of the
appellant's brief on the attorney general at the time the person files the
appellant's brief with the court.This requirement is
jurisdictional.
N.In
For the purposes of this
section and section 132312:
1."Acquire" means for a person to do any
of the following:
(a)Possess.
(b)Act so as to exclude other persons from using
their property except on his own terms.
(c)Bring about or receive the transfer of any
interest in property, whether to himself or to another person, or to secure
performance of a service.
2."Gain" means any benefit, interest or
property of any kind without reduction for expenses of acquiring or maintaining
it or incurred for any other reason.
3."Proceeds" includes any interest in
property of any kind acquired through or caused by an act or omission, or
derived from the act or omission, directly or indirectly, and any fruits of
this interest, in whatever form. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 13-2314.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2314.01.Anti-racketeering revolving fund; use of fund; reports;
review board; board termination
A.The antiracketeering revolving fund is
established. The attorney general shall administer the fund under the
conditions and for the purposes provided by this section. Monies in the fund
are exempt from the lapsing provisions of section 35190.
B.Any prosecution and investigation costs,
including attorney fees, recovered for the state by the attorney general as a
result of enforcement of civil and criminal statutes pertaining to any offense
included in the definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection
D, paragraph 4 or section 132312, whether by final judgment, settlement
or otherwise, shall be deposited in the fund established by this section.
C.Any monies received by any department or agency
of this state or any political subdivision of this state from any department or
agency of the United States or another state as a result of participation in
any investigation or prosecution, whether by final judgment, settlement or
otherwise, shall be deposited in the fund established by this section or, if
the recipient is a political subdivision of this state, may be deposited in the
fund established by pursuant to section 132314.03.
D.Any monies obtained as a result of a forfeiture
by any department or agency of this state under this title or under federal law
shall be deposited in the fund established by this section.Any
monies or other property obtained as a result of a forfeiture by any political
subdivision of this state or the federal government may be deposited in the
fund established by this section.Monies deposited in the fund
pursuant to this section or section 134315 shall accrue interest and
shall be held for the benefit of the agency or agencies responsible for the
seizure or forfeiture to the extent of their contribution.Except as
provided in subsections F and G of this section, the monies and interest shall
be distributed within thirty days of application to the agency or agencies
responsible for the seizure or forfeiture.Monies in the fund used
by the attorney general for capital projects in excess of one million dollars
are subject to review by the joint committee on capital review.
E.Monies in the fund:
1.May be used for the following:
1.(a)The
funding of gang prevention programs, substance abuse prevention programs,
substance abuse education programs, programs that provide assistance to victims
of a criminal offense that is listed in section 132301 and witness
protection pursuant to section 41196 or for any purpose permitted by
federal law relating to the disposition of any property that is transferred to
a law enforcement agency. 
2.(b)
The investigation and prosecution of any offense included in the definition of
racketeering in section 132301, subsection D, paragraph 4 or section 132312,
including civil enforcement.
3.(c)The payment of the
relocation expenses of any law enforcement officer and the officer's immediate
family if the law enforcement officer is the victim of a bona fide threat that
occurred because of the law enforcement officer's duties.
2.In
addition to any other restriction on the use of public monies provided by law,
may not be used for any of the following:
(a)Purchasing real property or any
interest in real property except to acquire full title to or to satisfy liens
or mortgages on forfeited property.
(b)Paying reception and representation
expenses, including refreshments, meals, gifts or entertainment.
(c)Sharing vehicles or forfeited
property or items purchased with shared monies by a person who is not employed
by a law enforcement agency.
(d)Paying education-related costs,
including scholarships, financial aid or classes that are not for law
enforcement. This subdivision does not prohibit paying tuition for a law
enforcement class that is necessary to the performance of a peace officer's
official duties.
F.On or before January 15, April 15, July 15 and
October 15 of each year, each department or agency of this state receiving
monies pursuant to this section or section 132314.03 or 134315 or
from any department or agency of the United States or another state as a result
of participation in any investigation or prosecution shall file with the
attorney general, the board of supervisors if the sheriff received the monies
and the city or town council if the city city's or town's department
received the monies a report for the previous calendar quarter.The
report shall be in a form that is prescribed by the Arizona criminal justice
commission and approved by the director of the joint legislative budget
committee.The report shall set forth the sources of all monies and
all expenditures.The report
shall provide separate details for each forfeiture, including the criminal case
number or the civil case number, as appropriate, that is associated with the
forfeiture and any related law enforcement departmental report numbers. The
report shall not include any identifying information about specific ongoing investigations.If
a department or agency of this state fails to file a report within fortyfive
days after the report is due and there is no good cause as determined by the Arizona
criminal justice commission, the attorney general shall make no expenditures
from the fund for the benefit of the department or agency until the report is
filed.The attorney general is responsible for collecting all
reports from departments and agencies of this state and transmitting the
reports to the Arizona criminal justice commission at the time that the report
required pursuant to subsection G of this section is submitted.
G.On or before January 25, April 25, July 25 and
October 25 of each year, the attorney general shall file with the Arizona
criminal justice commission a report for the previous calendar
quarter.The report shall be in a form that is prescribed by the
Arizona criminal justice commission and approved by the director of the joint
legislative budget committee. The report shall set forth the sources of all
monies and all expenditures. the
report shall provide separate details for each forfeiture, including the
criminal case number or the civil case number, as appropriate, that is
associated with the forfeiture and any related law enforcement departmental
report numbers. The report shall not include any identifying
information about specific ongoing investigations.
If the attorney general fails to file a report within sixty days after the
report is due and there is no good cause as determined by the Arizona criminal
justice commission, the attorney general shall make no expenditures from the
fund for the benefit of the attorney general until the report is
filed.If a political subdivision of this state fails to file a
report with the county attorney pursuant to section 132314.03 within
fortyfive days after the report is due and there is no good cause as
determined by the Arizona criminal justice commission, the attorney general
shall make no expenditures from the fund for the benefit of the political
subdivision until the report is filed.
H.The
Arizona criminal justice commission shall establish and maintain a searchable
public website that includes the following information that is obtained from
the attorney general pursuant to subsection G of this section:
1.from closed cases involving property, other
than currency, that is seized by a state, county, city or town law enforcement
agency under federal and state law:
(a)The
name of the law enforcement agency that seized the property.
(b)A
description of the seized property, other than currency, including the make and
model of a motor vehicle, except that the details are not required if
publishing the details will compromise an ongoing investigation. 
(c)The
date the law enforcement agency seized the property. 
(d)The
estimated value of the seized property. 
(e)Whether
the suspect was charged with a criminal offense. 
(f)The criminal offense alleged to have been committed
that led to the property's seizure. 
(g)Whether
the criminal offense is under federal or state law. 
(h)The
disposition of the case, including whether charges were dropped or whether the
defendant was acquitted, entered a plea or was convicted.
(i)Whether
the forfeiture proceedings were civil or criminal. 
(j)The
date of sale if the property was sold. 
(k)Selling
expenses associated with the property's sale. 
(l)The
total net proceeds received from the property's sale.
(m)The
proceeds received by the law enforcement agency from the property's sale.
(n)If
the property was retained, the purpose for which the property was used, except
that the details are not required if publishing the details will compromise an
ongoing investigation. 
(o)The
date of destruction if the property was destroyed. 
(p)The
date of the property's return if the property was returned to an owner or
interest holder by the law enforcement agency or prosecuting agency or by court
order.
2.from closed cases involving currency that is
seized by a state, county, city or town law enforcement agency under federal
and state law:
(a)The
name of the law enforcement agency that seized the currency.
(b)The
amount of currency seized. 
(c)The
date the law enforcement agency seized the currency.
(d)Whether
the suspect was charged with a criminal offense. 
(e)The
criminal offense alleged to have been committed that led to the currency's
seizure. 
(f)Whether
the criminal offense is under federal or state law. 
(g)The
disposition of the case, including whether charges were dropped or whether the
defendant was acquitted, entered a plea or was convicted.
(h)Whether
the forfeiture proceedings were civil or criminal. 
(i)The
date of the return of the currency if the currency was returned to an owner or
interest holder by the seizing law enforcement agency or prosecuting agency or
by court order.
3.The total amount of monies spent in each of
the following categories that resulted from property seized and reported pursuant
to subsection G of this section:
(a)Abuse
and crime prevention programs. 
(b)Witness
protection, victim restitution, informant fees, gang programs and controlled
buys. 
(c)Salaries,
overtime and benefits.
(d)Professional
outside services and fees, including auditing, court reporting, expert witness
fees, outside attorney fees and membership fees paid to trade associations.
(e)Travel,
meals, entertainment, training, conferences and continuing education seminars. 
(f)Other operating expenses,
including office supplies, postage and advertising.
(g)
Capital expenditures, including vehicles, firearms, equipment, computers and
furniture. 
(h)
Other expenditures of forfeiture proceeds. 
4. The total amount of currency that is held by the law
enforcement agency at the end of the reporting period.
H.I.On or before
September30 of each year, the Arizona criminal justice commission shall
compile the attorney general report and the reports of all departments and
agencies of this state into a single comprehensive report and shall submit a
copy of the report to the governor, the director of the department of
administration, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of
representatives, the director of the joint legislative budget committee and the
secretary of state.
J.The
attorney general shall establish and appoint members to an independent review
board. The review board shall review the sources and expenditures of all
monies that are in the antiracketeering revolving fund. The review board
shall notify the attorney general if it finds any unlawful uses of fund
monies. Board members may not be current or former employees of a law
enforcement or PROSECUTORIAL agency or have any familial relationship to an
employee of an agency or any recipient of forfeited money or property.
K.The
review board established by subsection J of this section ends on july 1, 2024
pursuant to section 41-3103.
L.The
attorney general shall investigate all allegations of unlawful use of
monies.If the allegation involves the attorney general, the county
attorney in the county where the alleged unlawful use occurred shall
investigate the allegation. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 13-2314.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2314.03.County anti-racketeering revolving fund; use of fund;
reports; review board; board termination
A.The board of supervisors of a county shall
establish a county antiracketeering revolving fund administered by the
county attorney under the conditions and for the purposes provided by this
section.
B.Any prosecution and investigation costs,
including attorney fees, recovered for the county as a result of enforcement of
civil and criminal statutes pertaining to any offense included in the
definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection D, paragraph 4
or section 132312, whether by final judgment, settlement or otherwise,
shall be deposited in the fund established by the board of supervisors.
C.Any monies received by any department or agency
of this state or any political subdivision of this state from any department or
agency of the United States or another state as a result of participation in
any investigation or prosecution, whether by final judgment, settlement or
otherwise, shall be deposited in the fund established by pursuant
to this section or in the fund established by section 132314.01.
D.Any monies obtained as a result of a forfeiture
by the county attorney under this title or under federal law shall be deposited
in the fund established by pursuant to this
section.Any monies or other property obtained as a result of a
forfeiture by any political subdivision of this state or the federal government
may be deposited in the fund established by
pursuant to this section
or in the fund established by section 132314.01. Monies deposited in the
fund pursuant to this section or section 134315 shall accrue interest
and shall be held for the benefit of the agency or agencies responsible for the
seizure or forfeiture to the extent of their contribution.Except as
provided in subsections F and G of this section, the monies and interest shall
be distributed to the agency or agencies responsible for the seizure or
forfeiture within thirty days of application.
E.Monies in the fund:
1.May
be used for the following:
(a)The funding
of gang prevention programs, substance abuse prevention programs, substance
abuse education programs, programs that provide assistance to victims of a
criminal offense that is listed in section 132301 and witness protection
pursuant to section 11536 or for any purpose permitted by federal law
relating to the disposition of any property that is transferred to a law
enforcement agency. Monies in the fund
may be used for
(b)The investigation and prosecution of any offense
included in the definition of racketeering in section 132301, subsection
D, paragraph 4 or section 132312, including civil enforcement.
2.In
addition to any other restriction on the use of public monies provided by law,
may not be used for any of the following:
(a)Purchasing real property or any
interest in real property except to acquire full title to or to satisfy liens
or mortgages on forfeited property.
(b)Paying reception and
representation expenses, including refreshments, meals, gifts or entertainment.
(c)Sharing vehicles or forfeited
property or items purchased with shared monies by a person who is not employed
by a law enforcement agency.
(d)Paying education-related costs,
including scholarships, financial aid or classes that are not for law
enforcement. This subdivision does not prohibit paying tuition for a law
enforcement class that is necessary to the performance of a peace officer's
official duties.
F.On or before January 25, April 25, July 25 and
October 25 of each year, the county attorney shall cause to be filed file with the Arizona criminal justice
commission a report for the previous calendar quarter.The report
shall be in a form that is prescribed by the Arizona criminal justice
commission and approved by the director of the joint legislative budget
committee.The report shall set forth the sources of all monies and
all expenditures. The report shall
provide separate details for each forfeiture, including the criminal case
number or the civil case number, as appropriate, that is associated with the
forfeiture and any related law enforcement departmental report numbers. The
report shall not include any identifying information about specific ongoing investigations.If
the county attorney fails to file a report within sixty days after it is due
and there is no good cause as determined by the Arizona criminal justice
commission, the county attorney shall make no expenditures from the fund for
the benefit of the county attorney until the report is filed.
G.On or before January 15, April 15, July 15 and
October 15 of each year, each political subdivision of this state receiving
monies pursuant to this section or section 132314.01 or 134315 or
from any department or agency of the United States or another state as a result
of participating in any investigation or prosecution shall cause to be filed file with the board of supervisors of the
county in which the political subdivision is located, each city or town council
in which the political subdivision is located and the county attorney of the
county in which the political subdivision is located a report for the previous
calendar quarter.The report shall be in a form that is prescribed
by the Arizona criminal justice commission and approved by the director of the
joint legislative budget committee.The report shall set forth the
sources of all monies and all expenditures.The report shall provide separate details for each
forfeiture, including the criminal case number or the civil case number, as
appropriate, that is associated with the forfeiture and any related law
enforcement departmental report numbers. The report shall not
include any identifying information about specific ongoing investigations.If a
political subdivision of this state fails to file a report within fortyfive
days after the report is due and there is no good cause as determined by the
Arizona criminal justice commission, the county attorney shall make no expenditures
from the fund for the benefit of the political subdivision until the report is
filed.The county attorney shall be responsible for collecting all
reports from political subdivisions within that county and transmitting the
reports to the Arizona criminal justice commission at the time that the county
report required pursuant to subsection F of this section is submitted.
H.The
Arizona criminal justice commission shall establish and maintain a searchable
public website that includes the following information that is obtained from
the county attorney pursuant to subsection G of this section:
1.from
closed cases involving property, other than currency, that is seized by a
state, county, city or town law enforcement agency under federal and state law:
(a)The
name of the law enforcement agency that seized the property.
(b)A
description of the seized property, other than currency, including the make and
model of a motor vehicle, except that the details are not required if
publishing the details will compromise an ongoing investigation. 
(c)The
date the law enforcement agency seized the property. 
(d)The
estimated value of the seized property. 
(e)Whether
the suspect was charged with a criminal offense. 
(f)The
criminal offense alleged to have been committed that led to the property's
seizure. 
(g)Whether
the criminal offense is under federal or state law. 
(h)The
disposition of the case, including whether charges were dropped or whether the
defendant was acquitted, entered a plea or was convicted.
(i)Whether
the forfeiture proceedings were civil or criminal. 
(j)The
date of sale if the property was sold. 
(k)Selling
expenses associated with the property's sale. 
(l)The
total net proceeds received from the property's sale.
(m)The
proceeds received by the law enforcement agency from the property's sale.
(n)If
the property was retained, the purpose for which the property was used, except
that the details are not required if publishing the details will compromise an
ongoing investigation. 
(o)The
date of destruction if the property was destroyed. 
(p)The
date of the property's return if the property was returned to an owner or
interest holder by the law enforcement agency or prosecuting agency or by court
order.
2.from closed cases involving currency that is
seized by a state, county, city or town law enforcement agency under federal
and state law:
(a)The
name of the law enforcement agency that seized the currency.
(b)The
amount of currency seized. 
(c)The
date the law enforcement agency seized the currency.
(d)Whether
the suspect was charged with a criminal offense. 
(e)The
criminal offense alleged to have been committed that led to the currency's
seizure. 
(f)Whether
the criminal offense is under federal or state law. 
(g)The
disposition of the case, including whether charges were dropped or whether the
defendant was acquitted, entered a plea or was convicted.
(h)Whether
the forfeiture proceedings were civil or criminal. 
(i)The date of the return of the
currency if the currency was returned to an owner or interest holder by the
seizing law enforcement agency or prosecuting agency or by court order.
3.The total amount of monies spent in each of
the following categories that resulted from property seized and reported
pursuant to subsection G of this section:
(a)Abuse
and crime prevention programs. 
(b)Witness
protection, victim restitution, informant fees, gang programs and controlled
buys. 
(c)Salaries,
overtime and benefits.
(d)Professional
outside services and fees, including auditing, court reporting, expert witness
fees, outside attorney fees and membership fees paid to trade associations.
(e)Travel,
meals, entertainment, training, conferences and continuing education seminars. 
(f)Other
operating expenses, including office supplies, postage and advertising.
(g)
Capital expenditures, including vehicles, firearms, equipment, computers and
furniture. 
(h)
Other expenditures of forfeiture proceeds. 
4. The total amount of
currency that is held by the law enforcement agency at the end of the reporting
period.
H.I.On or before
September30 of each year, the Arizona criminal justice commission shall
compile all county attorney reports into a single comprehensive report and all
political subdivision reports into a single comprehensive report and submit a
copy of each comprehensive report to the governor, the president of the senate,
the speaker of the house of representatives, the director of the joint
legislative budget committee and the secretary of state.
J.The board
of supervisors shall establish and appoint members to an independent review
board. The review board shall review the sources and expenditures of all
monies that are in the antiracketeering revolving fund. The review board
shall notify the attorney general if it finds any unlawful uses of fund
monies. Board members may not be current or former employees of a law
enforcement or prosecutorial agency or have any familial relationship to an
employee of an agency or any recipient of forfeited money or property.
K.The
review board established by subsection J of this section ends on July 1, 2024
pursuant to section 41-3103.
L.The
attorney general shall investigate all allegations of unlawful use of
monies.If the allegation involves the attorney general, the county
attorney in the county where the alleged unlawful use occurred shall
investigate the allegation. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
13-4304, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4304.Property subject to forfeiture; exemptions; waiver
A.Following
a person's conviction for a criminal offense that provides for forfeiture, the
court may order the person to forfeit any of the following:
1.Property,
including all interests in such property, that was acquired through the
commission of the offense.
2.Property,
including all interests in such property, that is directly traceable to
property acquired through the commission of the offense.
3.Any
instrumentality the person used in the commission of the offense.
B.All
property, including all interests in such property, described in a statute providing for its forfeiture is subsection A of this section is subject
to forfeiture.However, except that:
1.No vehicle used by any person as a common carrier
in the transaction of business as a common carrier may be forfeited under the provisions of this chapter
unless it appears that the owner or other person in charge of the vehicle was a
consenting party or privy to the act or omission giving rise to forfeiture or
knew or had reason to know of it.
2.No vehicle may be forfeited under the provisions of this chapter for any act or
omission established by the owner to have been committed or omitted by a person
other than the owner while the vehicle was unlawfully in the possession of a
person other than the owner in violation of the criminal laws of this state or
of the United States.
3.No property may be forfeited pursuant to section
133413, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 3 if the conduct giving rise to the
forfeiture both:
(a)Did not involve an amount of unlawful substance
greater than the statutory threshold amount as defined in section 133401.
(b)Was not committed for financial gain.
4.No owner's or interest holder's interest may be
forfeited under this chapter if the owner or interest holder establishes all of
the following:
(a)He acquired the interest before or during the
conduct giving rise to forfeiture.
(b)He did not empower any person whose act or
omission gives rise to forfeiture with legal or equitable power to convey the
interest, as to a bona fide purchaser for value, and he was not married to any
such person or if married to such person, held the property as separate
property.
(c)He did not know and could not reasonably have
known of the act or omission or that it was likely to occur.
5.No owner's or interest holder's interest may be
forfeited under this chapter if the owner or interest holder establishes all of
the following:
(a)He acquired the interest after the conduct
giving rise to forfeiture.
(b)He is a bona fide purchaser for value not
knowingly taking part in an illegal transaction.
(c)He was at the time of purchase and at all times
after the purchase and before the filing of a racketeering lien notice or the
provision of notice of pending forfeiture or the filing and notice of a civil
or criminal proceeding under this title relating to the property, whichever is
earlier, reasonably without notice of the act or omission giving rise to
forfeiture and reasonably without cause to believe that the property was
subject to forfeiture.
C.Notwithstanding
subsections A and B of this section and except for real property, if the
alleged property or an interest in property is abandoned, the property or
interest in property may be forfeited without a conviction. For the purposes
of this subsection, "abandoned" means the owner or interest holder of
property leaves the property and intentionally relinquishes all rights to
control the property or interest in the property.END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 13-4305, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4305.Seizure of property
A.Property subject to forfeiture under this chapter
may be seized for forfeiture by a peace officer:
1.On process issued pursuant to the Arizona rules of civil procedure or the provisions of this title
including a seizure warrant.
2.By making a seizure for forfeiture on property
seized on process issued pursuant to law, including sections 133911
through 133915.
3.By making a seizure for forfeiture without court
process if any of the following is true:
(a)The seizure for forfeiture is of property seized
incident to an arrest or search.
(b)The property subject to seizure for forfeiture
has been the subject of a prior judgment in favor of this state or any other
state or the federal government in a forfeiture proceeding.
(c)The peace officer has probable cause to believe
that the property is subject to forfeiture.
B.Property subject to forfeiture under this chapter
may be seized for forfeiture by placing the property under constructive
seizure.Constructive seizure may be made by posting notice of
seizure for forfeiture on the property or by filing notice of seizure for
forfeiture or notice of pending forfeiture in any appropriate public record
relating to the property.
C.The court shall determine probable cause for
seizure before real property may be seized for forfeiture, unless the seizure
is pursuant to a constructive seizure or the filing of a racketeering lien or
lis pendens. The court may make its determination ex parte if the state
demonstrates that notice and an opportunity to appear would create a risk of
harm to the public safety or welfare, including the risk of physical injury or
the likelihood of property damage or financial loss.
D.The court shall determine probable cause for
seizure before property may be seized for forfeiture as a substitute asset
pursuant to section 132314, subsection D, E or G, or pursuant to section
134313, subsection A, unless the seizure is pursuant to a constructive
seizure or the filing of a racketeering lien or lis pendens.The
court may issue a seizure warrant for such property if it determines that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is subject to forfeiture and is
not available for seizure for forfeiture for any reason described in section 134313,
subsection A.The determinations shall be made ex parte unless real
property is to be seized and subsection C of this section requires notice and
an opportunity to appear.
E.In
establishing a preponderance of the evidence and in determining probable cause
for seizure and for forfeiture, a rebuttable presumption exists that the
property of any person is subject to forfeiture if the state establishes all of
the following by the standard of proof applicable to that proceeding:
1.Conduct
giving rise to forfeiture occurred.
2.The person
acquired the property during the period of the conduct giving rise to
forfeiture or within a reasonable time after that period.
3.There is no
likely source for the property other than the conduct giving rise to forfeiture.
F.In
establishing a preponderance of the evidence and in determining probable cause
for seizure and for forfeiture, the fact that money or any negotiable
instrument was found in proximity to contraband or to instrumentalities of an
offense gives rise to an inference that the money or instrument was the
proceeds of contraband or was used or intended to be used to facilitate
commission of the offense. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
13-4306, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4306.Powers and duties of peace officers and agencies
A.In the event of a
seizure for forfeiture under section 134305, the property is not subject
to replevin, conveyance, sequestration or attachment but is deemed to be in the
custody of the law enforcement agency making the seizure for
forfeiture.The seizing agency or the attorney for the state may
authorize the release of the seizure for forfeiture of the property if
forfeiture or retention is unnecessary, may transfer the property to any other
state or federal agency or may transfer
the action to another attorney for the state by discontinuing forfeiture
proceedings in favor of forfeiture proceedings initiated by the other agency or
attorney.An action pursuant to this chapter shall be consolidated
with any other action or proceeding pursuant to this title relating to the same
property on motion by the attorney for the state in either action.
B.If property is seized
for forfeiture under section 134305, pending forfeiture and final
disposition, the seizing agency may do any of the following:
1.Remove the property
to a storage area for safekeeping or, if the property is a negotiable
instrument or money, deposit it in an interest bearing account.
2.Remove the property
to a place designated by the court.
3.Provide for another
custodian or agency to take custody of the property and remove it to an
appropriate location within the jurisdiction of the court.
C.As soon as
practicable after seizure for forfeiture, the seizing agency shall conduct an
inventory and estimate the value of the property seized.Within
twenty days the seizing agency or the attorney for the state shall make
reasonable efforts to provide notice of seizure for forfeiture to all persons
known to have an interest in the seized property.
D.A person who acts in
good faith and in a reasonable manner to comply with an order of the court or a
request of a peace officer is not liable to any person for acts done in
compliance with the order or request.
E.A possessory lien of
a person from whose possession property is seized is not affected by the
seizure.
F.In the event of a
seizure for forfeiture under section 134305, the seizing agency shall send
to an attorney for the state a written request for forfeiture within twenty
days, which shall include a statement of facts and circumstances of the seizure
including the names of witnesses then known, the appraised or estimated value
of the property and a summary of the facts relied on for forfeiture.
G.An owner of property
seized for forfeiture may obtain the release of the seized property by posting
with the attorney for the state a surety bond or cash in an amount equal to the
full fair market value of the property as determined by the attorney for the
state.The state may refuse to release the property if any of the
following applies:
1.The bond or cash
tendered is inadequate.
2.The property is
retained as contraband or evidence.
3.The property is
particularly altered or designed for use in conduct giving rise to forfeiture.
H.If an owner of
property posts a surety bond or cash and the property is forfeited the court
shall forfeit the surety bond or cash in lieu of the property.
I.The seizing agency or the attorney for the state may
not directly or indirectly transfer seized property to a federal agency or
attorney unless the seized property is valued at more than fifty thousand
dollars, excluding the potential value of the sale of contraband. A seizing
agency or the attorney for the state may not enter into a partnership or
agreement with a federal agency to seize property to avoid the requirement for
a criminal conviction. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section
13-4308, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4308.Commencement of proceedings
A.The attorney for the state shall determine
whether it is probable that the property is subject to forfeiture and, if so, following a criminal conviction,
may cause the initiation of uncontested
or judicial proceedings against the property.If, on
inquiry and examination, the attorney for
the state determines that the proceedings probably cannot be
sustained, that a conviction may not
occur or that justice does not require the institution of such
proceedings, he the attorney for the state shall
notify the seizing agency and immediately authorize the release of the seizure
for forfeiture on the property or on any specified interest in it.
B.If the state fails to initiate forfeiture proceedings against property
seized for forfeiture by notice of pending forfeiture within sixty days after
its seizure for forfeiture,
or fails to pursue forfeiture of such property on which a timely claim has been
properly filed by filing a complaint, information or indictment pursuant to
section 134311 or 134312 within sixty days after notice of
pending forfeiture or, if uncontested
forfeiture has been made available, within sixty days after a declaration of
forfeiture, whichever is later, such property shall be released
from its seizure for forfeiture on the request of an owner or interest holder,
pending further proceedings pursuant to this chapter, which shall be commenced
within seven years after actual discovery of the last act giving rise to
forfeiture.
C.If the property sought to be forfeited is real
property, including fixtures, the attorney for the state may file a lis pendens
or a notice of pending forfeiture with respect to the property with the county
recorder of the county in which the property is located, in addition to any
lien provided by section 132314.02, without a filing fee or other
charge. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Repeal
Section 13-4309,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.13.Title 13, chapter 39, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 13-4309, to read:
START_STATUTE13-4309.Pretrial replevin hearing; seized property
A.If
property is seized pursuant to this chapter, the defendant or any other person
who has an ownership interest in the property may request a pretrial hearing to
determine the validity of the seizure, the validity of the claimant's alleged
interest in the seized property and whether the court should grant a writ of
replevin or another remedy. At least sixty days before trial on the related
criminal offense the claimant may file a motion with the court requesting a
writ of replevin. The motion shall include any evidence that establishes the
validity of the claimant's alleged interest in the property. The state shall
file an answer that provides probable cause for the seizure, or cross motions,
at least ten days before a hearing on the claimant's motion. The court shall
conduct the hearing within thirty days after the claimants motion is filed.
B.Either
party, by agreement or for good cause, may request that the court grant one
extension for the hearing of not more than ten days. A motion for an extension
may be supported by affidavit or other submissions.
C.The court
shall grant the claimant's motion for replevin if the court finds that any of
the following applies:
1.It is
likely that the final judgment will require the state to return the seized
property to the claimant.
2.The
seized property is not reasonably required to be held for investigatory
purposes.
3.The
seized property is the only reasonable means for a defendant to pay for legal
representation in the forfeiture or criminal proceeding. The court may order
the return of money or property sufficient to obtain legal counsel but less
than the total amount seized and require an accounting of the returned money or
property.
D.In lieu
of ordering the writ of replevin, the court may order the state to provide
security or a written assurance for satisfaction of any judgment, including
damages, that may be rendered in the action or order other relief as may be
just.
Sec.14.Section 13-4310, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4310.Judicial forfeiture proceedings; general
A.In any proceeding pursuant to this chapter, the
court, on application of the state, may enter any restraining order or
injunction, require the execution of satisfactory performance bonds, create
receiverships, appoint conservators, appraisers, accountants or trustees or
take any other action to seize, secure, maintain or preserve the availability
of property subject to forfeiture under this title, including a warrant for its
seizure, whether prior or subsequent to the filing of a notice of pending
forfeiture, complaint, indictment or information.
B.If property is seized for forfeiture without a
prior judicial determination of probable cause, an order of forfeiture or a
hearing pursuant to section 134312, subsection D, the court, on an
application filed by an owner of or interest holder in the property within
fifteen days after notice of its seizure for forfeiture or actual knowledge of
it, whichever is earlier, and complying with the requirements for claims in
section 134311, subsections E and F, may issue an order to show cause to
the seizing agency for a hearing on the sole issue of whether probable cause
for forfeiture of the property then exists.Notice of the order to
show cause hearing must be served upon on the attorney for the state
at least five working days before the hearing is held.If the court
finds that no probable cause for forfeiture of the propertythen exists or
if the state elects not to contest the issue, the property seized for
forfeiture from the applicant shall be released to the custody of the applicant
pending the outcome of a judicial proceeding pursuant to this
chapter.If the court finds that probable cause for the forfeiture
of the property then exists, the court shall not order the property released,
except as provided in section 134306, subsection G.
C.A defendant convicted in any criminal proceeding
shall be precluded from subsequently denying the essential allegations of the
criminal offense of which he was convicted in any proceeding pursuant to this
chapter.For the purposes of this chapter, a conviction may result
from a verdict or plea including a no contest plea.
D.In any judicial forfeiture hearing, determination
or other proceeding pursuant to this chapter, the applicant, petitioner or
claimant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he is an owner
of or interest holder in the property seized for forfeiture before other
evidence is taken.The burden of proving the standing of the
claimant and the existence of the
exemption is on the claimant or party raising theclaim, and
it is not necessary to negate the standing of any claimant or the existence of any exemption in any
notice, application, complaint, information or indictment. If a claimant establishes by a preponderance of the evidence
that the claimant is an owner of or interest holder in the property, it is
presumed that the claimant's interest in the property is exempt from forfeiture
under section 13-4304 and the burden of establishing that the claimant's
property should be forfeited is on the state. 
E.In hearings and determinations pursuant to this
chapter:
1.The law of evidence relating to civil actions
applies equally to all parties, including the this state,
an applicant, a petitioner, a claimant and a defendant, on all issues required
to be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
2.The court shall receive and consider, in making
any determination of probable cause or reasonable cause, all evidence and
information that would be permissible in determining probable cause at a
preliminary hearing, at a grand jury or by a magistrate pursuant to section 133913,
together with inferences from the evidence and information.
3.No
Evidence may be suppressed in any hearing pursuant to this chapter on the
ground that its acquisition by search or seizure violated constitutional
protections applicable in criminal cases relating to unreasonable searches or
seizures.
F.All property, including all interests in such
property, declared forfeited under this title vests in this state on the
commission of the act or omission giving rise to forfeiture under this title
together with the proceeds of the property after such time.Any such
property or proceeds subsequently transferred to any person are subject to
forfeiture and thereafter shall be ordered forfeited unless the transferee
claims and establishes in a hearing pursuant to this chapter the showings set
out in section 134304.
G.On the motion of a
party and after notice to any persons who are known to have an interest in the
property and an opportunity to be heard, the court may order property that has
been seized for forfeiture sold, leased, rented or operated to satisfy an
interest of any interest holder who has timely filed a proper claim or to
preserve the interests of any party.The court may order a sale or
any other disposition of the property if the property may perish, waste, be
foreclosed on or otherwise be significantly reduced in value or if the expenses
of maintaining the property are or will become greater than its fair market
value.If the court orders a sale, the court shall designate a third
party or state property manager to dispose of the property by public sale or
other commercially reasonable method and shall distribute the proceeds in the
following order of priority:
1.Payment of reasonable expenses incurred in
connection with the sale.
2.Satisfaction of exempt interests in the order of
their priority.
3.Preservation of the balance, if any, in the
actual or constructive custody of the court in an interest bearing account,
subject to further proceedings under this chapter.
H.If the property is disposed of pursuant to
subsection G of this section, a successful claimant may apply to the court for
actual monetary damages suffered, if any, as a result of the disposal of the
property, but the this state, a political
subdivision of the this state, or an officer, employee or agent of any
of them shall not in any event be liable under this chapter for incidental or
consequential damages or for damages either:
1.That could have been avoided if the claimant had
made full and immediate disclosure to the attorney for the state of facts or
evidence known or available to the claimant.
2.In excess of the fair market value of the
property seized for forfeiture at the time of its seizure plus interest from
the time of its seizure for forfeiture.
I.If an
indictment or information is filed alleging the same conduct as the conduct
giving rise to forfeiture in a civil forfeiture proceeding, the court in the
civil proceeding may stay civil discovery against the criminal defendant and
against the state in the civil proceeding until the defendant's criminal trial
is completed.Before staying civil discovery, the court shall make
adequate provision to prevent any loss or expense to any victim or party
resulting from the delay, including loss or expense due to maintenance,
management, insurance, storage or preservation of the availability of the
property or due to depreciation in the value of the property.
J.I.No
person claiming to be an owner of or interest holder in property seized for
forfeiture under this chapter may commence or maintain any action against the
state concerning the validity of the alleged interest other than as provided in
this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 13-4311, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4311.Judicial in rem forfeiture proceedings
A.If a forfeiture is authorized by law, it shall be
ordered by a court on an action in rem brought by the state pursuant to a
notice of pending forfeiture or a verified complaint for
forfeiture.The state may serve the complaint in the manner provided
by section 134307 or by the Arizona rules of civil procedure.
B.A civil in rem action may be brought by the state
in addition to or in lieu of
the civil and criminal in personam forfeiture procedures set forth in sections
134312 and 134313 or the
uncontested civil forfeiture procedures set forth in section 134309.Judicial
in rem forfeiture proceedings are in the nature of an action in rem and are
governed by the Arizona rules of civil procedure unless a different procedure
is provided by law.
C.On the filing of a civil in rem action by the
state in superior court the clerk of the court in which the action is filed
shall provide, and the attorney for the state may provide, the notice of
pending forfeiture required by section 134307 unless the files of the
clerk of the court reflect that such notice has previously been made.
D.An owner of or interest holder in the property
may file a claim against the property, within thirty days after the notice, for
a hearing to adjudicate the validity of his claimed interest in the
property.The court shall
hold the hearing shall be
held by the court without a jury.
E.The claim shall be signed by the claimant under
penalty of perjury and shall set forth all of the following:
1.The caption of the proceeding as set forth on the
notice of pending forfeiture or complaint and the name of the claimant.
2.The address at which the claimant will accept
future mailings from the court or attorney for the state.
3.The nature and extent of the claimant's interest
in the property.
4.The date, the identity of the transferor and the
circumstances of the claimant's acquisition of the interest in the property.
5.The specific provisions of this chapter relied on
in asserting thatthe property is not subject to forfeiture.
6.All facts supporting each such assertion.
7.Any additional facts supporting the claimant's
claim.
8.The precise relief sought.
F.Copies of the claim shall be mailed to the
seizing agency and to the attorney for the state.No extension of
time for the filing of a claim may be granted.
G.Within twenty days after service of the
complaint, the claimant shall file and serve the answer to the complaint and
the answers to interrogatories and requests for admission if any were served
with the complaint. The answer shall be signed by the owner or interest holder
under penalty of perjury, shall comply with the Arizona rules of civil
procedure relating to answers and shall comply with all of the requirements for
claims. If no proper answer is timely filed, the attorney for the state shall
proceed as provided in sections 134314 and 134315 with ten days'
notice to any person who has timely filed a claim that has not been stricken by
the court.
H.At the time of filing its pleadings or at any
other time not less than thirty days before the hearing, the state and any
claimant who has timely answered the complaint may serve discovery requests on
any other party, the answers or response to which shall be due in twenty days,
and may take the deposition of any person at any time after the expiration of
fifteen days after the filing and service of the complaint.Any
party may move for summary judgment at any time after an answer or responsive
pleading is served and not less than thirty days before the
hearing.The state, as the
party defending against the claim, may make offers of judgment at
any time more than ten days before the hearing begins.
I.An injured person may submit a request for
compensation from forfeited property to the court at any time before the
earlier of the entry of a final judgment or an application for an order of the
forfeiture of the property, or if a hearing pursuant to subsections K, L and M
of this section is held, not less than thirty days before the
hearing.The request shall be signed by the requestor under penalty
of perjury and shall set forth all of the following:
1.The caption of the proceeding as set forth on the
notice of pending forfeiture or complaint and the name of the requestor.
2.The address at which the requestor will accept
future mailings from the court or parties to the action.
3.The property subject to forfeiture from which the
requestor seeks compensation.
4.The nature of the economic loss sustained by the
requestor.
5.All facts supporting each such assertion.
6.Any additional facts supporting the request.
7.The amount of economic loss for which the
requestor seeks compensation.
J.If a proper request for compensation from
forfeited property is timely filed, the court shall hold a hearing to establish
whether there is a factual basis for the request.The requestor has
the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that the
requestor is an injured person who sustained economic loss.
K.The hearing on the claim, to the extent
practicable and consistent with the interest of justice, shall be held sixty
days after all parties have complied with the disclosure required by rule 26.1
of the Arizona rules of civil procedure.The court may consolidate
the hearing on the claim with a hearing on any other claim concerning the same
property.
L.At the hearing, the claimant may testify, present
evidence and witnesses on the claimant's own behalf and crossexamine
witnesses who appear at the hearing.The state may present evidence
and witnesses and crossexamine witnesses who appear at the hearing.
M.At the hearing, the state has the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that the property is subject to
forfeiture under section 134304.Any If
the claimant who
has previously established by a preponderance of the evidence that the claimant
is an owner of or interest holder in the property, has
the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence it is presumed that the
claimant's interest in the property is exempt from forfeiture under section 134304
and the burden of establishing that the
claimant's property should be forfeited is on the state.
N.In accordance with
its findings at the hearing:
1.The court shall
order an interest in property returned or conveyed to a claimant, if any, who
has established by a preponderance of the evidence that the claimant is an
owner of or interest holder in the property if either of the following applies:
(a)The state has failed to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the interest is subject to forfeiture under
section 134304.
(b)The claimant
state has established by a preponderance of the evidence failed to establish that the
interest is not exempt
from forfeiture under section 134304.
2.The court shall order all other property,
including all interests in the property, forfeited to this state and proceed
pursuant to sections 134314 and 134315.
3.If the court finds that a requestor is an injured
person the court shall determine the amount of the injured person's economic
loss caused by the conduct giving rise to the forfeiture of the designated
property and shall require the following:
(a)If the designated property is not contraband and
is not altered or designed for use in conduct giving rise to forfeiture, the
attorney for the state shall sell the property as provided in section 134315,
subsection A, paragraph 2,
and shall apply the resulting balance to compensate the injured person's
economic loss in the amount found by the court.
(b)If the balance is insufficient to compensate the
economic loss of all injured persons the attorney for the state shall
distribute the balance among the injured persons according to a method
determined by the court.
(c)After compensation of all injured persons, the
attorney for the state shall transmit ten per cent percent of
the remaining balance, if any, to the Arizona criminal justice commission for
deposit in the victim compensation and assistance fund established by section
412407.
(d)The attorney for the state shall deposit the
remainder of the balance, if any, in an appropriate antiracketeering
revolving fund established by section 132314.01 or established pursuant to section 132314.03.
END_STATUTE 
Sec.16.Section
13-4312, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4312.Judicial in personam forfeiture proceedings
A.If a forfeiture is
authorized by law, it shall be ordered by a court on proceedings by the state after a criminal conviction in
an in personam civil or criminal action pursuant to section 132313 or 132314
or any other law providing for a forfeiture.
B.Any complaint, information or indictment alleging
or charging one or more offenses included in section 132301, subsection
D, paragraph 4 or a violation of section 132312, or any other offense
giving rise to forfeiture under this title, shall set forth with reasonable
particularity property that the state seeks to forfeit pursuant to this section
in that action, if any. The court shall allow the allegation that particular
new or different or differently described property is subject to forfeiture in
an in personam criminal or civil case to be made at any time prior to the date
the case is actually tried unless the allegation is filed fewer than twenty
days before the case is actually tried, and the court finds on the record that
the defendant was in fact prejudiced by the untimely filing and states reasons
for these findings, provided that when the allegation is filed, the state must
make available to the defendant a copy of any material information concerning
the allegation.
C.In any proceeding pursuant to this section, the
court, on application of the state, may enter any order authorized by section
134310, subsection A or take any other action to seize, secure, maintain
or preserve the availability of property subject to forfeiture under this
title, including a warrant for its seizure, whether before or after the filing
of a complaint, indictment or information.
D.Notwithstanding subsection E of this section, a
temporary restraining order under this section may be entered on application of
the state without notice or an opportunity for a hearing if the state
demonstrates both that:
1.There is probable cause to believe that the
property with respect to which the order is sought would, in the event of final judgment or a criminal conviction, be subject to
forfeiture under this title.
2.Provision of notice will jeopardize the
availability of the property for forfeiture. A temporary restraining order
expires within ten days after the date on which it is entered unless the party
against whom it is entered consents to an extension for a longer period or
unless after commencing a hearing the court enters or is considering a
preliminary injunction.
E.Notice of the entry of the restraining order and
an opportunity for a hearing shall be afforded to persons known to have an
interest in the property, whether or not a temporary restraining order is
entered without notice.The hearing, however, is limited to the
issues of whether both:
1.There is a probability that the state will
prevail on the issue of forfeiture and that failure to enter the order will
result in the property being destroyed, conveyed, encumbered or further
encumbered, removed from the jurisdiction of the court, concealed or otherwise
made unavailable for forfeiture.
2.The need to preserve the availability of property
through the entry of the requested order outweighs the hardship on any owner,
interest holder or defendant against whom the order is to be entered.
F.A hearing requested by any owner or interest
holder concerning an order entered under this section shall be held at the
earliest possible time and before the expiration of a temporary order.
G.On a
determination of liability or the conviction of a person for
conduct giving rise to forfeiture under this title, the court shall enter a
judgment of forfeiture of the property described in the forfeiture statute
alleged and set out in the complaint, information or indictment, as amended,
and shall also authorize the county attorney or attorney general, their agents
or any peace officer to seize all property ordered forfeited that was not
previously seized or is not then under seizure.Following the entry
of an order declaring the property forfeited, the court, on application of the
state, may enter any order authorized by section 134310, subsection A or
take any other action to protect the interest of this state or a political
subdivision in the property ordered forfeited.The filing of the
order of forfeiture in the appropriate public records perfects the interest of
the state in the property described in the order as of the earlier of the date
of the act or omission giving rise to forfeiture or the date that a notice of
seizure for forfeiture or notice of pending forfeiture or racketeering lien was
first filed in the records, which entitles the state to all rights of a secured
party as to that property in addition to any other rights or remedies of the
state in relation to the property.Any income accruing to, or derived
from, an enterprise or any interest in an enterprise or other property interest
that is forfeited under this chapter is also forfeited from the time of the
conduct giving rise to forfeiture.It may be used pending procedures
subsequent to a verdict or finding of liability to offset ordinary and
necessary expenses of the enterprise or property as required by law or that are
necessary to protect the interests of this state or a political subdivision.
H.Procedures subsequent to the verdict or finding of liability and order
of forfeiture shall be as follows:
1.Following the entry of an order of forfeiture
under this subsection the clerk of the court shall, and the attorney for the
state may, give notice of pending forfeiture to all owners and interest holders
who have not previously been given notice, if any, in the manner provided in
section 134307.
2.An owner of or interest holder in property that
has been ordered forfeited pursuant to such action whose claim is not precluded
may file a claim as described in section 134311, subsections E and F in
the court for a hearing to adjudicate the validity of his claimed interest in
the property within thirty days after initial notice of pending forfeiture or
after notice under paragraph 1 of this subsection, whichever is earlier.
3.The hearing on the claim, to the extent
practicable and consistent with the interest of justice, shall be held within
sixty days after the order of forfeiture.The court may consolidate
the hearing on the claim with a hearing on any other claim filed by a person
other than a party or defendant in the underlying action and concerning the
same property.
4.The hearing shall be held by the court without a
jury and conducted in the manner provided for in rem judicial forfeiture
actions including the provisions of section 134311, subsections J and K L and M.In addition to testimony
and evidence presented at the hearing, the court shall consider the relevant
portions of the record of the underlying civil or criminal action that resulted
in the order of forfeiture.
5.In accordance with its findings at the hearing,
the court may amend the order of forfeiture if it determines that any claimant
has established by a preponderance of the evidence that the claimant is an
owner of or interest holder in the property if either of the following applies:
(a)The state has failed to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the interest is subject to forfeiture under
section 134304.
(b)The claimant
state has established by a preponderance of the evidence failed to establish that the
interest is not exempt
from forfeiture under section 134304.
I.In order to facilitate the identification or
location of property declared forfeited and to facilitate the disposition of
filed or subsequent claims pursuant to subsection H, paragraph 2 of this
section, the court, on application of the state, may order that the testimony
of any witness relating to the property forfeited or alleged to be subject to
forfeiture be taken by deposition and that any designated book, paper,
document, record, recording, electronic or otherwise, or other material which
is not privileged be produced at the same time and place and in the same manner
as that provided for the taking of depositions under the rules of civil
procedure. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 13-4314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4314.Disposition by court
A.If no
petitions for remission or mitigation or claims are timely filed or if no
petitioner files a claim in the court within thirty days after the mailing of a
declaration of forfeiture
After a criminal conviction occurs, the attorney for the state
shall apply to the court for an order of forfeiture and allocation of forfeited
property pursuant to section 134315. On the state's written application
showing a conviction, jurisdiction, and notice and facts sufficient to demonstrate probable cause for
forfeiture, and in cases brought pursuant to section 133413,
subsection A, paragraph 1 or 3, probable cause to believe that the conduct
giving rise to forfeiture involved an amount of unlawful substance greater than
the statutory threshold amount as defined in section 133401 or was
committed for financial gain, the court shall order the property forfeited to
the state.
B.After the court's disposition of all claims
timely filed under this chapter, the state has clear title to the forfeited
property and the court shall so order.Title to the forfeited
property and its proceeds is deemed to have vested in the state on the
commission of the act or omission giving rise to the forfeiture under this
title.
C.If, in his discretion, the attorney for the state
has entered into a stipulation with an interest holder that the interest holder
has an interest that is exempted from forfeiture, the court, on application of
the attorney for the state, may release or convey forfeited personal property
to the interest holder if all of the following are true:
1.The interest holder has an interest which that was acquired in the regular course of
business as a financial institution within section 132301, subsection D,
paragraph 3.
2.The amount of the interest holder's encumbrance
is readily determinable and it has been reasonably established by proof made
available by the attorney for the state to the court.
3.The encumbrance held by the interest holder
seeking possession is the only interest exempted from forfeiture and the order
forfeiting the property to the state transferred all of the rights of the owner
prior to before forfeiture, including rights to
redemption, to the state.
4.After the court's release or conveyance, the
interest holder shall dispose of the property by a commercially reasonable
public sale, and within ten days of disposition shall tender to the state the
amount received at disposition less the amount of the interest holder's
encumbrance and reasonable expense incurred by the interest holder in
connection with the sale or disposal.
D.On order of the court forfeiting the subject
property, the attorney for the state may transfer good and sufficient title to
any subsequent purchaser or transferee, and the title shall be recognized by
all courts, by this state and by all departments and agencies of this state and
any political subdivision.
E.On entry of judgment for a claimant or claimants
in any proceeding to forfeit property under this chapter such property or
interest in property shall be returned or conveyed immediately to the claimant
or claimants designated by the court.If
it appears that there was reasonable cause for the seizure for forfeiture or
for the filing of the notice of pending forfeiture, complaint, information or
indictment, the court shall cause a finding to be entered, and
the claimant is not or claimants, in such case, are entitled to attorney fees, costs or damages. , nor
is The person or seizing agency that made the seizure, nor is and the attorney for the state is not liable to suit or judgment on account
of such the seizure, suit or prosecution.
F.The court shall
order any claimant who fails to establish that his entire interest is exempt
from forfeiture under section 134304 to pay the his
proportionate costs of any claimant who establishes that his
entire interest is exempt from forfeiture under section 134304 and the
state's costs and expenses of the investigation and prosecution of the matter,
including reasonable attorney fees. The
proportionate costs shall be equal to the claimant's percentage of interest
that is subject to forfeiture.END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 13-4315, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4315.Allocation of forfeited property
A.Any property, including all interests in
property, forfeited to the state under this title shall be transferred as
requested by the attorney for the state to the seizing agency or to the agency
or political subdivision employing the attorney for the state, which may do any
of the following:
1.Sell, lease, lend or transfer the property to any
local or state government entity or agency or political subdivision, any law enforcement agency or
prosecutorial agency or any federal law enforcement agency which that
operates within this state for official federal, state or
political subdivision use within this state, with expenses for keeping and
transferring such property to be paid by the recipient.Property may
not be allocated for official use if the fair market value of the property
substantially exceeds the agency's probable cost of purchasing other property
equally suited for the intended official use.Property that is
allocated for official use may not be assigned for use by any person who supervised
or exercised discretion in its forfeiture unless the use is approved in writing
by the head of the agency.
2.Sell forfeited property by public or otherwise
commercially reasonable sale with expenses of keeping and selling the property
and the amount of all valid interests established by claimants paid out of the
proceeds of the sale with the balance paid into the antiracketeering revolving fund of the state or
of the county in which the political subdivision seizing the property or
prosecuting the action is located.A sale of forfeited property may
not be made to any employee of the seizing agency, any person who participated
in the forfeiture, any employee of a contractor selling the property on behalf
of the seizing agency or any member of the immediate family of any of these
employees or persons.
3.Destroy or use for investigative purposes any
illegal or controlled substances or other contraband at any time more than
twenty days after seizure, on written approval of the attorney for the state,
preserving only such material as may be necessary for evidence.
4.Sell, use or destroy all raw materials, products
and equipment of any kind used or intended for use in manufacturing,
compounding or processing a controlled substance.
5.Compromise and pay claims against property
forfeited pursuant to any provision of this section.
6.Make any other disposition of forfeited property
authorized by law for the disposition of property of the state, government
entity, agency or political subdivision.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section or
any other provision of law
to the contrary:
1.If the property forfeited is money, and a law
enforcement agency can specifically identify monies as being from its
investigative funds or as being exchanged for property from its investigative
property, the monies shall be remitted to the investigative fund.If
there are additional forfeited monies or monies tendered on satisfaction by an
interest holder which that cannot be specifically
identified, the court shall order the monies returned to each law enforcement
agency that makes a showing of costs or expenses which that
it incurred in connection with the investigation and prosecution
of the matter and shall order all excess monies remaining after such returns deposited
in the antiracketeering revolving
fund of this state or of the county in which the political
subdivision seizing the monies or prosecuting the action is located,
established pursuant to section 132314.01 or 132314.03. 
2.If the property declared forfeited is an interest
in a vehicle, the court shall order it forfeited to the local, state or other
law enforcement agency seizing the vehicle for forfeiture or to the seizing
agency.
C.Monies in any antiracketeering revolving fund established pursuant
to this title may be used, in addition to any other lawful use, for:
1.The payment of any expenses necessary to seize,
detain, appraise, inventory, protect, maintain, preserve the availability of,
advertise or sell property that is subject to forfeiture and that is seized,
detained or forfeited pursuant to this title or of any other necessary expenses
incident to the seizure, detention, preservation or forfeiture of the
property.The payments may include payments for contract services and
payments to reimburse any federal, state or local agency for any expenditures
made to perform the functions of the seizing agency.
2.The payment of awards for information or
assistance leading to a civil or criminal proceeding under this title.
3.The payment of compensation from forfeited
property to injured persons as provided in section 134311, subsection N,
paragraph 3.
D.Each attorney for the state shall submit a copy
of each forfeiture judgment, including each order of forfeiture, to the Arizona
criminal justice commission within sixty days after the forfeiture judgment
becomes final or after the conclusion of appellate review, if any.
E.The
attorney general shall investigate all allegations of unlawful use of monies.
If the allegation involves the attorney general, the county attorney in the
county where the alleged unlawful use occurred shall investigate the
allegation. END_STATUTE

