







REFERENCE TITLE: DCS; backlog cases; private contractors.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2389









Introduced by
Representatives
  Allen J, Mitchell, Townsend: Borrelli, Boyer, Campbell, Farnsworth E,
  Finchem, Gray, Lawrence, Leach, Mesnard, Norgaard, Petersen, Rivero, Shope,
  Thorpe





AN ACT

prescribing
contracts between the department of child safety and private contractors to
administer backlog cases.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Department of child safety; private contractors; backlog
cases; definition; delayed repeal
A.The department of child safety shall issue one of
more requests for proposals for one or more private contractors to administer
backlog cases as provided in this section. The department shall submit any
request for proposals to the joint legislative budget committee for review
before issuing the request. The department shall enter into one or more
contracts for the administration of backlog cases on or before July 1, 2016.
B.Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, in administering backlog cases, the private contractor or contractors
shall:
1.Complete all aspects of each case needed to be
performed according to department rules and policies and this section,
including the use of analytics for risk assessment.
2.If the investigation has not been completed,
complete the investigation and make a recommendation to the department on the
disposition of the case.
3.If the disposition of a case involves a referral
for services, continue management of the case according to a plan approved by
the department. If the parent, guardian or custodian refuses to participate in
services, the private contractor shall return the case to the department for
management by the department.
4.If the disposition of the case will most likely
result in the termination of parental rights, return the case to the department
for management by the department.
C.If a private contractor has a reasonable belief
that a child is in imminent danger, the private contractor shall return the
case to the department for management by the department.
D.The department shall report to the joint legislative
budget committee within thirty days after each calendar quarter the status of
all backlog cases as of the end of that calendar quarter.
E.For the purposes of this section, "backlog
case" means any nonactive case for which documentation has not been
entered in the child welfare automated system for at least sixty days and for
which services have not been authorized for at least sixty days or any case
that has had an investigation, has been referred to other units and has had no
contact for at least sixty days.
F.This
section is repealed from and after June 30, 2017.
Sec.2.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

