







REFERENCE TITLE: body art establishments; licensure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2320









Introduced by
Representative
  Meyer





AN ACT

Amending section
36136, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 36, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding chapter 15; relating to public health.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-136, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-136.Powers and duties of director; compensation of personnel
A.The director shall:
1.Be the executive officer of the department of
health services and the state registrar of vital statistics but shall not
receive compensation for services as registrar.
2.Perform all duties necessary to carry out the
functions and responsibilities of the department.
3.Prescribe the organization of the
department.The director shall appoint or remove personnel as
necessary for the efficient work of the department and shall prescribe the
duties of all personnel.The director may abolish any office or
position in the department that the director believes is unnecessary.
4.Administer and enforce the laws relating to
health and sanitation and the rules of the department.
5.Provide for the examination of any premises if
the director has reasonable cause to believe that on the premises there exists
a violation of any health law or rule of the state.
6.Exercise general supervision over all matters
relating to sanitation and health throughout the state.When in the
opinion of the director it is necessary or advisable, a sanitary survey of the
whole or of any part of the state shall be made.The director may
enter, examine and survey any source and means of water supply, sewage disposal
plant, sewerage system, prison, public or private place of detention, asylum,
hospital, school, public building, private institution, factory, workshop, body art establishment, tenement,
public washroom, public restroom, public toilet and toilet facility, public
eating room and restaurant, dairy, milk plant or food manufacturing or
processing plant, and any premises in which the director has reason to believe
there exists a violation of any health law or rule of the state that the
director has the duty to administer.
7.Prepare sanitary and public health rules.
8.Perform other duties prescribed by law.
B.If the director has reasonable cause to believe
that there exists a violation of any health law or rule of the state, the
director may inspect any person or property in transportation through the
state, and any car, boat, train, trailer, airplane or other vehicle in which
that person or property is transported, and may enforce detention or
disinfection as reasonably necessary for the public health if there exists a
violation of any health law or rule.
C.The director may
deputize, in writing, any qualified officer or employee in the department to do
or perform on the director's behalf any act the director is by law empowered to
do or charged with the responsibility of doing.
D.The director may delegate to a local health
department, county environmental department or public health services district any
functions, powers or duties that the director believes can be competently,
efficiently and properly performed by the local health department, county
environmental department or public health services district if:
1.The director or superintendent of the local
health agency, environmental agency or public health services district is
willing to accept the delegation and agrees to perform or exercise the
functions, powers and duties conferred in accordance with the standards of
performance established by the director.
2.Monies appropriated or otherwise made available
to the department for distribution to or division among counties or public
health services districts for local health work may be allocated or reallocated
in a manner designed to assure ensure the accomplishment of
recognized local public health activities and delegated functions, powers and
duties in accordance with applicable standards of performance. Whenever in the
director's opinion there is cause, the director may terminate all or a part of
any delegation and may reallocate all or a part of any funds that may have been
conditioned on the further performance of the functions, powers or duties
conferred.
E.The compensation of all personnel shall be as
determined pursuant to section 38611.
F.The director may make and amend rules necessary
for the proper administration and enforcement of the laws relating to the
public health.
G.Notwithstanding subsection H, paragraph 1 of this
section, the director may define and prescribe emergency measures for
detecting, reporting, preventing and controlling communicable or infectious
diseases or conditions if the director has reasonable cause to believe that a
serious threat to public health and welfare exists. Emergency measures are
effective for no longer than eighteen months.
H.The director, by rule, shall:
1.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
measures for detecting, reporting, preventing and controlling communicable and
preventable diseases. The rules shall declare certain diseases reportable.The
rules shall prescribe measures, including isolation or quarantine, that are reasonably required to
prevent the occurrence of, or to seek early detection and alleviation of,
disability, insofar as possible, from communicable or preventable diseases.
The rules shall include reasonably necessary measures to control animal
diseases transmittable to humans.
2.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
measures, in addition to those prescribed by law, regarding the preparation,
embalming, cremation, interment, disinterment and transportation of dead human
bodies and the conduct of funerals, relating to and restricted to communicable
diseases and regarding the removal, transportation, cremation, interment or
disinterment of any dead human body.
3.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
procedures that are not
inconsistent with law in regard to the use and accessibility of vital records,
delayed birth registration and the completion, change and amendment of vital
records.
4.Except as relating to the beneficial use of
wildlife meat by public institutions and charitable organizations pursuant to
title 17, prescribe reasonably necessary measures to assure
ensure that all food or drink, including meat and meat products
and milk and milk products sold at the retail level, provided for human
consumption is free from unwholesome, poisonous or other foreign substances and
filth, insects or diseasecausing organisms. The rules shall prescribe
reasonably necessary measures governing the production, processing, labeling,
storing, handling, serving and transportation of these products.The
rules shall prescribe minimum standards for the sanitary facilities and
conditions that shall be maintained in any warehouse, restaurant or other
premises, except a meat packing plant, slaughterhouse, wholesale meat
processing plant, dairy product manufacturing plant or trade product
manufacturing plant. The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for any truck
or other vehicle in which food or drink is produced, processed, stored,
handled, served or transported.The rules shall provide for the
inspection and licensing of premises and vehicles so used, and for abatement as
public nuisances of any premises or vehicles that do not comply with the rules
and minimum standards.The rules shall provide an exemption relating
to food or drink that is:
(a)Served at a noncommercial social event that
takes place at a workplace, such as a potluck.
(b)Prepared at a cooking school that is conducted
in an owneroccupied home.
(c)Not potentially hazardous and prepared in a
kitchen of a private home for occasional sale or distribution for noncommercial
purposes.
(d)Prepared or served at an employee-conducted
function that lasts less than four hours and is not regularly scheduled, such
as an employee recognition, an employee fundraising or an employee
social event.
(e)Offered at a child care facility and limited to
commercially prepackaged food that is not potentially hazardous and whole
fruits and vegetables that are washed and cut on site for immediate
consumption.
(f)Offered at locations that sell only commercially
prepackaged food or drink that is not potentially hazardous.
(g)Baked and confectionary goods that are not
potentially hazardous and that are prepared in a kitchen of a private home for
commercial purposes if packaged with a label that clearly states the address of
the maker, includes contact information for the maker, lists all the
ingredients in the product and discloses that the product was prepared in a home.
The label must be given to the final consumer of the product. If the product
was made in a facility for individuals with developmental disabilities, the
label must also disclose that fact. The person preparing the food or
supervising the food preparation must obtain a food handler's card or
certificate if one is issued by the local county and must register with an
online registry established by the department pursuant to paragraph 13 of this
subsection. For the purposes of this subdivision, "potentially
hazardous" means baked and confectionary goods that meet the requirements
of the food code published by the United States food and drug administration,
as modified and incorporated by reference by the department by rule.
5.Prescribe reasonably necessary measures to assure ensure that all meat and meat products for
human consumption handled at the retail level are delivered in a manner and
from sources approved by the Arizona department of agriculture and are free
from unwholesome, poisonous or other foreign substances and filth, insects or
diseasecausing organisms.The rules shall prescribe standards
for sanitary facilities to be used in identity, storage, handling and sale of
all meat and meat products sold at the retail level.
6.Prescribe reasonably necessary measures regarding
production, processing, labeling, handling, serving and transportation of
bottled water to assure ensure that all bottled
drinking water distributed for human consumption is free from unwholesome,
poisonous, deleterious or other foreign substances and filth or diseasecausing
organisms.The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for the
sanitary facilities and conditions that shall be maintained at any source of
water, bottling plant and truck or vehicle in which bottled water is produced,
processed, stored or transported and shall provide for inspection and
certification of bottled drinking water sources, plants, processes and
transportation and for abatement as a public nuisance of any water supply,
label, premises, equipment, process or vehicle that does not comply with the
minimum standards.The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for
bacteriological, physical and chemical quality for bottled water and for the
submission of samples at intervals prescribed in the standards.
7.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
measures governing ice production, handling, storing and distribution to assure ensure that all ice sold or distributed for
human consumption or for the preservation or storage of food for human
consumption is free from unwholesome, poisonous, deleterious or other foreign
substances and filth or diseasecausing organisms.The rules
shall prescribe minimum standards for the sanitary facilities and conditions
and the quality of ice that shall be maintained at any ice plant, storage and
truck or vehicle in which ice is produced, stored, handled or transported and
shall provide for inspection and licensing of the premises and vehicles, and
for abatement as public nuisances of ice, premises, equipment, processes or
vehicles that do not comply with the minimum standards.
8.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
measures concerning sewage and excreta disposal, garbage and trash collection,
storage and disposal, and water supply for recreational and summer camps,
campgrounds, motels, tourist courts, trailer coach parks and
hotels.The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for preparation
of food in community kitchens, adequacy of excreta disposal, garbage and trash
collection, storage and disposal and water supply for recreational and summer
camps, campgrounds, motels, tourist courts, trailer coach parks and hotels and
shall provide for inspection of these premises and for abatement as public
nuisances of any premises or facilities that do not comply with the rules.
9.Define and prescribe reasonably necessary
measures concerning the sewage and excreta disposal, garbage and trash
collection, storage and disposal, water supply and food preparation of all
public schools. The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for sanitary
conditions that shall be maintained in any public school and shall provide for
inspection of these premises and facilities and for abatement as public
nuisances of any premises that do not comply with the minimum standards.
10.Prescribe reasonably necessary measures to
prevent pollution of water used in public or semipublic swimming pools and
bathing places and to prevent deleterious health conditions at these
places.The rules shall prescribe minimum standards for sanitary conditions
that shall be maintained at any public or semipublic swimming pool or bathing
place and shall provide for inspection of these premises and for abatement as
public nuisances of any premises and facilities that do not comply with the
minimum standards. The rules shall be developed in cooperation with the
director of the department of environmental quality and shall be consistent
with the rules adopted by the director of the department of environmental
quality pursuant to section49104, subsection B, paragraph 12.
11.Prescribe reasonably necessary measures to keep
confidential information relating to diagnostic findings and treatment of
patients, as well as information relating to contacts, suspects and associates
of communicable disease patients. In no event shall confidential information
be made available for political or commercial purposes.
12.Prescribe reasonably necessary measures
regarding human immunodeficiency virus testing as a means to control the
transmission of that virus, including the designation of anonymous test sites
as dictated by current epidemiologic and scientific evidence.
13.Establish an online registry of food preparers
that are authorized to prepare food for commercial purposes pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this subsection.
I.The rules adopted under the authority conferred
by this section shall be observed throughout the state and shall be enforced by
each local board of health or public health services district, but this section
does not limit the right of any local board of health or county board of
supervisors to adopt ordinances and rules as authorized by law within its
jurisdiction, provided that the ordinances and rules do not conflict with state
law and are equal to or more restrictive than the rules of the director.
J.The powers and duties prescribed by this section
do not apply in instances in which regulatory powers and duties relating to
public health are vested by the legislature in any other state board,
commission, agency or instrumentality, except that with regard to the
regulation of meat and meat products, the department of health services and the
Arizona department of agriculture within the area delegated to each shall adopt
rules that are not in conflict.
K.The director, in establishing fees authorized by
this section, shall comply with title 41, chapter 6.The department
shall not set a fee at more than the department's cost of providing the service
for which the fee is charged.State agencies are exempt from all
fees imposed pursuant to this section.
L.After consultation with the state superintendent
of public instruction, the director shall prescribe the criteria the department
shall use in deciding whether or not to notify a local school district that a
pupil in the district has tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus
antibody. The director shall prescribe the procedure by which the department
shall notify a school district if, pursuant to these criteria, the department
determines that notification is warranted in a particular situation.This
procedure shall include a requirement that before notification the department
shall determine to its satisfaction that the district has an appropriate policy
relating to nondiscrimination of the infected pupil and confidentiality of test
results and that proper educational counseling has been or will be provided to
staff and pupils.
M.Until the department adopts exemptions by rule as
required by subsection H, paragraph 4, subdivision (f) of this section, food
and drink is are exempt from the rules prescribed in
subsection H of this section if offered at locations that sell only
commercially prepackaged food or drink that is not potentially hazardous,
without a limitation on its display area. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 36, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding chapter 15, to read:
CHAPTER 15
BODY ART ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-1751.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Body
art":
(a)Means the practice of physical body adornment by body
piercing, tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, permanent skin coloring, branding and
scarification. 
(b)Does not include practices that are considered to be medical
procedures by a state medical board, practices that are noninvasive forms of
painting through the use of dyes or inks or practices considered by the board
of cosmetology to be aesthetics, cosmetology or nail technology.
2."Body
art establishment" means any place where body art is performed, whether or
not for profit, under the direction of a body art establishment operator.
3."Body
art establishment employee" means a person who practices body art at a
body art establishment under the direction of a body art establishment
operator.
4."Body
art establishment Operator" means a person who controls, operates, manages
or practices body art activities at a body art establishment.
5."Body
piercing" means puncturing or penetrating a person's skin with a needle or
sharpened jewelry and inserting jewelry or other adornment in the opening.
Body piercing includes ear piercing.
6."Department"
means the department of health services.
7."Ear
piercing" means the puncturing of the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear
with a needle.
8."Local
public health department" means a local health department established
pursuant to chapter 1, article 4 of this title or a county environmental
department.
9."Tattooing"
means any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin or
mucosa to permanently color the skin or mucosa by using needles or any other
instrument to puncture the skin. Tattooing includes all forms of cosmetic
tattooing and permanent skin coloring such as eyeliner, eyebrows, lip liner, full
lip color, repigmentation or camouflage. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1752.Prohibited acts
Beginning January 1,
2018, a body art establishment operator may not:
1.Operate a
body art establishment without a license issued pursuant to this article.
2.Authorize
or perform body art on any body part of a person who is under eighteen years of
age without the written consent and the physical presence of the child's parent
or legal guardian at the body art establishment.
3.Use a
needle to tattoo or pierce the body of another person more than once or use a
needle that is not sterilized.
4.Use a
stud-and-clasp piercing gun or system more than once, unless the gun or system
is capable of being disinfected and is actually disinfected after each use.
5.Pierce
any body part other than an ear with a piercing gun or system.
6.Unless
allowed pursuant to a license issued pursuant to title 32, administer
anesthesia during the course of any procedure involving the branding,
scarifying, tattooing, implanting, mutilating or piercing of the body of
another person.
7.Engage in
the business of tattooing, branding, scarifying, implanting, mutilating or body
piercing out of a home or an impermanent structure. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1753.Licensure; application; fees; posting
A.Beginning
January 1, 2018, a body art establishment operator who wishes to operate a body
art establishment shall have a current license issued by a local public health
department.A body art establishment operator who wishes to operate
more than one establishment shall have a separate license for each
establishment.
B.A local
public health department may establish its own fees relating to body art
establishment licensure.
C.An
applicant for licensure shall file a completed application as required by the
department of health services. The applicant shall include the application fee
as prescribed by the local public health department.
D.A license
issued pursuant to this section is not transferable.
E.The
licensee or operator shall post the license and the most recent inspection, if
applicable, in a prominent and conspicuous area where they may be readily
observed by clients.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1754.Rules; compliance requirements
As a condition of
licensure, body art establishment operators and body art establishment
employees shall comply with all standards prescribed by the department by rule.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1755.Temporary establishments; licensure; application; fee;
posting
A.A body
art establishment that is licensed pursuant to section 361753 and that
wishes to operate a temporary body art establishment at another location for
product demonstration, an industry trade show or an educational event or to
demonstrate body art techniques shall have a current temporary license issued
by the local public health department.
B.An
applicant for a temporary body art establishment license shall file a completed
application as required by the local public health department. The applicant
shall include the application fee as prescribed by the local public health
department.The applicant shall hold a current license in good
standing pursuant to section 36-1753.
C.A
temporary body art establishment license issued pursuant to this section is not
transferable and is valid for not more than four days or until the conclusion
of the special event, whichever date first occurs.
D.The body
art establishment operator shall post the temporary license and the most recent
inspection, if applicable, in a prominent and conspicuous area where they may
be readily observed by clients. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1756.Minimum standards for operation; county standards
A.The
department of health services shall establish minimum standards regarding the
following that each body art establishment must comply with as a condition of
licensure by the local public health department:
1.Sanitation.
2.Pest
control.
3.Proper
disposal of equipment and bodily fluids.
4.Sterilization
of equipment and surface areas.
5.Recordkeeping
and other business procedures.
6.Body art
establishment employee requirements.
7.Requirement
for twice-yearly bloodborne pathogen training that includes at least the
following:
(a)Training conducted by a person or persons who are
knowledgeable in exposure control and infection prevention in the body art
setting and who are approved by the department of health services.
(b)Training and training materials specific to performing body
art that include a copy of the occupational safety and health administration
bloodborne pathogen standard (29 Code of Federal Regulations section 1910.1030)
and a copy and explanation of applicable county, city or town ordinances that
pertain to bloodborne pathogen transmission control in body art.
(c)A discussion of the transmission, control and symptoms of
diseases that are caused by bloodborne pathogens and the types and uses of
personal protective equipment, such as disposable gloves, including an
explanation of the limitations of the equipment.
(d)Information on signage required for biohazard materials and
the importance of properly labeling chemicals and supplies.
B.A county
that regulates body art establishments shall adopt standards that are at least
as stringent as those prescribed by the department of health services pursuant
to subsection A of this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1757.Investigations; inspections; disciplinary action; civil
penalty
A.To
determine compliance with the requirements of this article, a local public
health department may receive and investigate complaints, initiate and conduct
investigations and enter and inspect a body art establishment or temporary
establishment during business hours.
B.If,
pursuant to an inspection or investigation, the local public health department
believes that a licensee or operator is in violation of this article or rules
adopted by the department of health services, the local public health
department may do any of the following:
1.If the
local public health department determines that the violation does not pose a
risk to the public health or safety, notify the licensee in writing of its
findings and instruct the licensee to take specific steps to correct the
violation within a reasonable time.
2.Issue a
cease and desist order.
3.Impose a
civil penalty as prescribed by ordinance for each violation of this article.
In addition, the local public health department may assess and collect the
reasonable costs incurred in a disciplinary hearing if action is taken against
a person's license.
4.Accept
the voluntary surrender of a license.
5.If the
local public health department determines that the public health or safety
requires immediate action, order the summary suspension of a license or the
restriction of the licensee's business operation pending a hearing conducted pursuant
to title 41, chapter 6, article 10. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-1758.Local government regulation of body art establishments
A.This
article does not prohibit a city, town or county from adopting and enforcing
ordinances affecting body art establishments, locations or settings in which
individuals, entities or businesses engage in the practice of body art.
B.A city,
town or county may impose ordinances that are more stringent than the rules
adopted by the department pursuant to this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Rulemaking; exemption
For the purposes of implementing this act, the department of
health services is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter
6, Arizona Revised Statutes, for two years after the effective date of this
act. The department shall hold at least two public meetings before adopting
rules pursuant to this act.

