







REFERENCE TITLE: regulation; deficiencies; opportunity to
  correct







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2337









Introduced by
Representatives
  Norgaard: Livingston





AN ACT

amending sections
411009 and 49471.03, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
regulatory enforcement.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1009, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1009.Inspections and audits; applicability; exceptions
A.An agency inspector, auditor or regulator who
enters any premises of a regulated person for the purpose of conducting an
inspection or audit shall, unless otherwise provided by law:
1.Present photo identification on entry of the
premises.
2.On initiation of the inspection or audit, state
the purpose of the inspection or audit and the legal authority for conducting
the inspection or audit.
3.Disclose any applicable inspection or audit fees.
4.Afford an opportunity to have an authorized onsite
representative of the regulated person accompany the agency inspector, auditor
or regulator on the premises, except during confidential interviews.
5.Provide notice of the right to have on request:
(a)Copies of any original documents taken by the
agency during the inspection or audit if the agency is permitted by law to take
original documents.
(b)A split of any samples taken during the
inspection if the split of any samples would not prohibit an analysis from
being conducted or render an analysis inconclusive.
(c)Copies of any analysis performed on samples
taken during the inspection.
(d)Copies of any documents to be relied on to
determine compliance with licensure or regulatory requirements if the agency is
otherwise permitted by law to do so.
6.Inform each person whose conversation with the
agency inspector, auditor or regulator during the inspection or audit is tape
recorded that the conversation is being tape recorded.
7.Inform each person who is interviewed during the
inspection or audit that:
(a)Statements made by the person may be included in
the inspection or audit report.
(b)Participation in an interview is voluntary,
unless the person is legally compelled to participate in the interview.
(c)The person is allowed at least twentyfour
hours to review and revise any written witness statement that is drafted by the
agency inspector, auditor or regulator and on which the agency inspector,
auditor or regulator requests the person's signature.
(d)The agency
inspector, auditor or regulator may not prohibit the regulated
person from having an attorney or any other experts in their field present
during the interview to represent or advise the regulated person.
B.On initiation of an audit or an inspection of any
premises of a regulated person, an agency inspector, auditor or regulator shall
provide the following in writing:
1.The rights described in subsection A of this
section and section 411001.01, subsection C.
2.The name and telephone number of a contact person
who is available to answer questions regarding the inspection or audit.
3.The due process rights relating to an appeal of a
final decision of an agency based on the results of the inspection or audit,
including the name and telephone number of a person to contact within the
agency and any appropriate state government ombudsman.
4.A statement that the agency inspector, auditor or
regulator may not take any adverse action, treat the regulated person less
favorably or draw any inference as a result of the regulated person's decision
to be represented by an attorney or advised by any other experts in their
field.
5.A notice that if the information and documents
provided to the agency inspector, auditor or regulator become a public record,
the regulated person may redact trade secrets and proprietary and confidential
information unless the information and documents are confidential pursuant to statute.
6.The time limit or statute of limitations
applicable to the right of the agency inspector, auditor or regulator to file a
compliance action against the regulated person arising from the inspection or
audit, which applies to both new and amended compliance actions.
C.An agency inspector, auditor or regulator shall
obtain the signature of the regulated person or onsite representative of
the regulated person on the writing prescribed in subsection B of this section
and section 411001.01, subsection C, if applicable, indicating that the
regulated person or onsite representative of the regulated person has
read the writing prescribed in subsection B of this section and section 411001.01,
subsection C, if applicable, and is notified of the regulated person's or onsite
representative of the regulated person's inspection or audit and due process
rights.The agency inspector, auditor or regulator may provide an
electronic document of the writing prescribed in subsection B of this section
and section 411001.01, subsection C and, at the request of the regulated
person or onsite representative, obtain a receipt in the form of an
electronic signature.The agency shall maintain a copy of this
signature with the inspection or audit report and shall leave a copy with the
regulated person or onsite representative of the regulated person. If a
regulated person or onsite representative of the regulated person is not
at the site or refuses to sign the writing prescribed in subsection B of this
section and section 411001.01, subsection C, if applicable, the agency
inspector, auditor or regulator shall note that fact on the writing prescribed
in subsection B of this section and section 411001.01, subsection C, if
applicable.
D.An agency that conducts an inspection shall give
a copy of the inspection report to the regulated person or onsite
representative of the regulated person either:
1.At the time of the inspection.
2.Notwithstanding any other state law, within
thirty working days after the inspection.
3.As otherwise required by federal law.
E.The inspection report shall contain deficiencies
identified during an inspection. Unless otherwise provided by state or federal
law, the agency shall provide the regulated person an opportunity to correct
the deficiencies unless the agency determines that the deficiencies are:
1.Committed intentionally.
2.Not correctable within a reasonable period of
time as determined by the agency.
3.Evidence of a pattern of noncompliance.
4.A risk to any person, the public health, safety
or welfare or the environment.
F.the
OPPORTUNITY to correct DEFICIENCIES pursuant to subsection e of this section
shall be granted liberally in order for the regulated person to achieve
successful compliance with the rules rather than receiving sanctions.
F.G.If the agency
allows the regulated person an opportunity to correct the deficiencies pursuant
to subsection E of this section, the regulated person shall notify the agency
when the deficiencies have been corrected.Within thirty days after
receipt of notification from the regulated person that the deficiencies have
been corrected, the agency shall determine if the regulated person is in
substantial compliance and notify the regulated person whether or not the regulated
person is in substantial compliance.If the regulated person fails
to correct the deficiencies or the agency determines the deficiencies have not
been corrected within a reasonable period of time, the agency may take any
enforcement action authorized by law for the deficiencies.
G.H.For agencies with authority under title 49, If
the agency does not allow the regulated person an opportunity to correct
deficiencies pursuant to subsection E of this section, on the request of the
regulated person, the agency shall provide a detailed written explanation of the reason
that an opportunity to correct was not allowed. 
H.I.An agency
decision pursuant to subsection E or F
G of this section is not an appealable agency action.
I.J.At least once
every month after the commencement of the inspection, an agency shall provide a
regulated person with an update on the status of any agency action resulting
from an inspection of the regulated person. An agency is not required to
provide an update after the regulated person is notified that no agency action
will result from the agency inspection or after the completion of agency action
resulting from the agency inspection.
J.K.For
agencies with authority under title 49, if, as a result of an inspection or any
other investigation, an agency alleges that a regulated person is not in
compliance with licensure or other applicable regulatory requirements, the
agency shall provide written notice of that allegation to the regulated
person.The notice shall contain the following information:
1.A citation to the statute, regulation, license or
permit condition on which the allegation of noncompliance is based, including
the specific provisions in the statute, regulation, license or permit condition
that are alleged to be violated.
2.Identification of any documents relied on as a
basis for the allegation of noncompliance.
3.An explanation stated with reasonable specificity
of the regulatory and factual basis for the allegation of noncompliance.
4.Instructions for obtaining a timely opportunity
to discuss the alleged violation with the agency.
K.L.Subsection J K of this section applies only to inspections
necessary for the issuance of a license or to determine compliance with
licensure or other regulatory requirements.Subsection J K of this section does not apply to an action
taken pursuant to section 11871, 11876, 11877, 49457.01,
49457.03 or 49474.01.Issuance of a notice under
subsection J K of this section is not a
prerequisite to otherwise lawful agency actions seeking an injunction or
issuing an order if the agency determines that the action is necessary on an
expedited basis to abate an imminent and substantial endangerment to public
health or the environment and documents the basis for that determination in the
documents initiating the action.
L.M.This section does
not authorize an inspection or any other act that is not otherwise authorized
by law.
M.N.Except as
otherwise provided in subsection K
L of this section, this
section applies only to inspections necessary for the issuance of a license or
to determine compliance with licensure or other regulatory requirements
applicable to a licensee and audits pursuant to enforcement of title 23,
chapters 2 and 4. This section does not apply:
1.To criminal investigations, investigations under
tribal state gaming compacts and undercover investigations that are generally
or specifically authorized by law.
2.If the agency
inspector, auditor or regulator has reasonable suspicion to
believe that the regulated person may be engaged in criminal activity.
3.To the Arizona peace officer standards and
training board established by section 411821.
4.To certificates of convenience and necessity that
are issued by the corporation commission pursuant to title 40, chapter 2.
N.O.If an
agency inspector, auditor
or regulator gathers evidence in violation of this section, the violation may
be a basis to exclude the evidence in a civil or administrative proceeding.
O.P.Failure of an
agency, board or commission employee to comply with this section:
1.May subject the employee to disciplinary action
or dismissal.
2.Shall be considered by the judge and
administrative law judge as grounds for reduction of any fine or civil penalty.
P.Q.An agency may
make rules to implement subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section.
Q.R.Nothing in this
section shall be used to exclude evidence in a criminal proceeding. 
R.S.Subsection A,
paragraph 7, subdivision (c) and subsection E of this section do not apply to
the department of health services for the purposes of title 36, chapters 4 and
7.1.
S.T.Subsection B,
paragraph 5 and subsection E of this section do not apply to the corporation
commission for the purposes of title 44, chapters 12 and 13. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 49-471.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-471.03.Inspections
The control officer shall comply with section 411009,
except that section 411009, subsection O P,
paragraph 1 does not apply. END_STATUTE

