







REFERENCE TITLE: adoption; married couple; preference.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2392









Introduced by
Representatives
  Velasquez, Alston, Andrade, Bolding, Espinoza, Mendez, Senators Miranda,
  Quezada: Representatives Cardenas, Clark, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Gonzales,
  Senator Contreras





AN ACT

amending section
8103, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to adoption.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-103.Who may adopt
A.Any adult resident of this state, whether
married, unmarried or legally separated,
is eligible to qualify to adopt children.A husband and wife married couple may jointly adopt children.
B.Pursuant to rules adopted by the division, the
division or adoption agency shall place a child in an adoptive home that best
meets the safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health needs of the
child. Other relevant factors for consideration, in no order of preference,
shall include:
1.The marital status, and
the length and stability of the marital relationship of the
prospective adoptive parents.
2.Placement with the child's siblings pursuant to
section 8862.
3.Established relationships between the child and
the prospective adoptive family as described in section 8862, including
placement with a grandparent or another member of the child's extended family
including a person or foster parent who has a significant relationship with the
child.
4.The prospective adoptive family's ability to meet
the child's safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health needs and the
ability to financially provide for the child.
5.The wishes of the child who is twelve years of
age or older.
6.The wishes of the child's birth parents unless
the rights of the parent have been terminated or the court has established a
case plan of severance and adoption.
7.The availability of relatives, the child's
current or former foster parents or other significant persons to provide
support to the prospective adoptive family and child.
C.If all
relevant factors are equal and the choice is between a married man and woman
certified to adopt and a single adult certified to adopt, placement preference
shall be with a married man and woman.
D.c.In each adoption
proceeding, the court shall make findings on the record regarding the best
interests of the child pursuant to law. END_STATUTE

