







REFERENCE TITLE: qualified disability expenses; eligible
  individuals







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2388









Introduced by
Representatives
  Allen J, Brophy McGee, Cardenas, Carter, Mach, Senators Barto, Begay,
  Bradley, Farley, Hobbs, Yee: Representatives Ackerley, Alston, Barton,
  Bowers, Cobb, Fernandez, Friese, Gonzales, Gowan, Gray, Leach, Lovas, Mendez,
  Mitchell, Montenegro, Norgaard, Rios, Rivero, Townsend, Weninger, Senators Kavanagh,
  Lesko





AN ACT

repealing section
41-2501, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195,
section 82; Amending section 41-2501, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30; amending sections 431021 and 431022,
Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending title 46, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding chapter 8; appropriating monies; relating to persons with disabilities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 41-2501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82, is
repealed.
Sec.2.Section 41-2501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2501.Applicability
A.This chapter applies only to procurements
initiated after January1, 1985 unless the parties agree to its
application to procurements initiated before that date.
B.This chapter applies to every expenditure of
public monies, including federal assistance monies except as otherwise
specified in section 412637, by this state, acting through a state
governmental unit as defined in this chapter, under any contract, except that
this chapter does not apply to either grants as defined in this chapter, or
contracts between this state and its political subdivisions or other
governments, except as provided in chapter 24 of this title and in article 10
of this chapter.This chapter also applies to the disposal of state
materials.This chapter and rules adopted under this chapter do not
prevent any state governmental unit or political subdivision from complying
with the terms of any grant, gift, bequest or cooperative agreement.
C.All political subdivisions and other local public
agencies of this state may adopt all or any part of this chapter and the rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, sections 412517
and 412546 apply to any agency as defined in section 411001,
including the office of the governor.
E.The Arizona board of regents and the legislative
and judicial branches of state government are not subject to this chapter
except as prescribed in subsection F of this section.
F.The Arizona board of regents and the judicial
branch shall adopt rules prescribing procurement policies and procedures for
themselves and institutions under their jurisdiction.The rules must
be substantially equivalent to the policies and procedures prescribed in this
chapter.
G.The Arizona state lottery commission is exempt
from this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation of the
lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets and related
materials.The executive director of the Arizona state lottery
commission shall adopt rules substantially equivalent to the policies and
procedures in this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation
of the lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets or related materials.
All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
H.The Arizona health care cost containment system
administration is exempt from this chapter for provider contracts pursuant to
section 362904, subsection A and contracts for goods and services,
including program contractor contracts pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
articles 2 and 3 and contracts with
regional behavioral health authorities pursuant to title 36, chapter 34.All
other procurement, including contracts for the statewide administrator of the
program pursuant to section 362903, subsection B, shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
I.Arizona industries for the blind is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of finished goods from members of national
industries for the blind and for purchases of raw materials for use in the
manufacture of products for sale pursuant to section 411972.All
other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
J.Arizona correctional industries is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of raw materials, components and supplies that are
used in the manufacture or production of goods or services for sale entered
into pursuant to section 411622. All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
K.The state transportation board and the director
of the department of transportation are exempt from this chapter other than
section 412586 for the procurement of construction or reconstruction,
including engineering services, of transportation facilities or highway
facilities and any other services that are directly related to land titles,
appraisals, real property acquisition, relocation, property management or
building facility design and construction for highway development and that are
required pursuant to title 28, chapter 20.
L.The Arizona highways magazine is exempt from this
chapter for contracts for the production, promotion, distribution and sale of
the magazine and related products and for contracts for sole source creative
works entered into pursuant to section 287314, subsection A, paragraph
5. All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
M.The secretary of state is exempt from this
chapter for contracts entered into pursuant to section 411012 to publish
and sell the administrative code.All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
N.This chapter is not applicable to contracts for
professional witnesses if the purpose of such contracts is to provide for
professional services or testimony relating to an existing or probable judicial
proceeding in which this state is or may become a party or to contract for
special investigative services for law enforcement purposes.
O.The head of any state governmental unit, in
relation to any contract exempted by this section from this chapter, has the
same authority to adopt rules, procedures or policies as is delegated to the
director pursuant to this chapter.
P.Agreements negotiated by legal counsel
representing this state in settlement of litigation or threatened litigation
are exempt from this chapter.
Q.This chapter is not applicable to contracts
entered into by the department of economic security:
1.With a provider licensed or certified by an
agency of this state to provide child day care services.
2.With area agencies on aging created pursuant to
the older Americans act of 1965 (P.L. 8973; 79 Stat. 218; 42 United
States Code sections 3001 through 3058ff).
3.For services pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
article 2.
4.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672.
R.The department
of health services Arizona
health care cost containment system may not require that persons
with whom it contracts follow this chapter for the purposes of subcontracts
entered into for the provision of the following:
1.Mental health services pursuant to section 36189,
subsection B.
2.Services for the seriously mentally ill pursuant
to title 36, chapter 5, article 10.
3.Drug and alcohol services pursuant to section 36141.
4.S.The department of health
services may not require that persons with whom it contracts follow this chapter
for the purpose of subcontracts entered into for the provision of domestic
violence services pursuant to title 36, chapter 30, article 1.
S.T.The department of
health services is exempt from this chapter for contracts for services of
physicians at the Arizona state hospital.
T.U.Contracts for
goods and services approved by the board of trustees of the public safety
personnel retirement system are exempt from this chapter.
U.V.The Arizona
department of agriculture is exempt from this chapter with respect to contracts
for private labor and equipment to effect cotton or cotton stubble plowup
pursuant to rules adopted under title 3, chapter2, article 1.
V.W.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for purchases of guest supplies and
items for resale such as food, linens, gift items, sundries, furniture, china,
glassware and utensils for the facilities located in the Tonto natural bridge
state park.
W.X.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for the purchase, production,
promotion, distribution and sale of publications, souvenirs and sundry items
obtained and produced for resale.
X.Y.The Arizona state
schools for the deaf and the blind are exempt from this chapter for the
purchase of textbooks and when purchasing products through a cooperative that
is organized and operates in accordance with state law if such products are not
available on a statewide contract and are related to the operation of the
schools or are products for which special discounts are offered for educational
institutions.
Y.Z.Expenditures of
monies in the morale, welfare and recreational fund established by section 26153
are exempt from this chapter.
Z.AA.Notwithstanding
section 412534, the director of the state department of corrections may
contract with local medical providers in counties with a population of less
than four hundred thousand persons for the following purposes:
1.To acquire hospital and professional medical
services for inmates who are incarcerated in state department of corrections
facilities that are located in those counties.
2.To ensure the availability of emergency medical
services to inmates in all counties by contracting with the closest medical
facility that offers emergency treatment and stabilization.
AA.BB.The department
of environmental quality is exempt from this chapter for contracting for
procurements relating to the water quality assurance revolving fund program
established pursuant to title 49, chapter 2, article5. The department
shall engage in a source selection process that is similar to the procedures
prescribed by this chapter.The department may contract for remedial
actions with a single selection process. The exclusive remedy for disputes or
claims relating to contracting pursuant to this subsection is as prescribed by
article 9 of this chapter and the rules adopted pursuant to that article. All
other procurement by the department shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
BB.CC.The motor
vehicle division of the department of transportation is exempt from this
chapter for thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter 13,
only if all of the following conditions exist:
1.The division does not pay any public monies to an
authorized third party.
2.Exclusivity is not granted to an authorized third
party.
3.The director has complied with the requirements
prescribed in title 28, chapter 13 in selecting an authorized third party.
CC.DD.This section
does not exempt thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter
13 from any other applicable law.
DD.EE.The state
forester is exempt from this chapter for purchases and contracts relating to
wildland fire suppression and prepositioning equipment resources and for
other activities related to combating wildland fires and other unplanned risk
activities, including fire, flood, earthquake, wind and hazardous material
responses. All other procurement by the state forester shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
EE.FF.The cotton
research and protection council is exempt from this chapter for procurements.
FF.GG.Expenditures of
monies in the Arizona agricultural protection fund established by section 33304
are exempt from this chapter.
GG.HH.The Arizona
commerce authority is exempt from this chapter, except article 10 for the
purpose of cooperative purchases. The authority shall adopt policies,
procedures and practices, in consultation with the department of
administration, that are similar to and based on the policies and procedures
prescribed by this chapter for the purpose of increased public confidence, fair
and equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process and fostering
broad competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the authority's
statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies, procedures and
practices available to the public. The authority may exempt specific
expenditures from the policies, procedures and practices. 
HH.II.The Arizona
exposition and state fair board is exempt from this chapter for contracts for
professional entertainment.
II.JJ.This chapter
does not apply to the purchase of water, gas or electric utilities.
JJ.KK.This chapter
does not apply to professional certifications, professional memberships and
conference registrations.
KK.LL.The department
of gaming is exempt from this chapter for problem gambling treatment services
contracts with licensed behavioral health professionals.
LL.MM.This chapter
does not apply to contracts for credit reporting services.
MM.NN.This chapter
does not apply to contracts entered into by the department of child safety: 
1.With a provider of family foster care pursuant to
section 8503.
2.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672.
OO.This
chapter does not apply to contracts entered into by the department of economic
security with a financial institution to serve as a program manager and
depository under section 46-903. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 43-1021, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1021.Additions to Arizona gross income
In computing Arizona adjusted gross
income, the following amounts shall be added to Arizona gross income:
1.A beneficiary's share
of the fiduciary adjustment to the extent that the amount determined by section
431333 increases the beneficiary's Arizona gross income.
2.An amount equal to the
ordinary income portion of a lump sum distribution that was excluded from
federal adjusted gross income pursuant to the special rule for individuals who
attained fifty years of age before January 1, 1986 under Public Law 99514,
section 1122(h)(3).
3.The amount of interest
income received on obligations of any state, territory or possession of the
United States, or any political subdivision thereof, located outside the state
of Arizona, reduced, for tax years beginning from and after December 31, 1996,
by the amount of any interest on indebtedness and other related expenses that
were incurred or continued to purchase or carry those obligations and that are
not otherwise deducted or subtracted in arriving at Arizona gross income.
4.The excess of a
partner's share of partnership taxable income required to be included under
chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the income required to be reported
under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
5.The excess of a
partner's share of partnership losses determined pursuant to section 702(a)(8)
of the internal revenue code over the losses allowable under chapter 14,
article 2 of this title.
6.The amount by which the
adjusted basis of property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to
the internal revenue code exceeds the adjusted basis of such property computed
pursuant to this title and the income tax act of 1954, as
amended.This paragraph shall apply to all property that is held for
the production of income and that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the
taxable year, except depreciable property used in a trade or business.
7.Any amount of agricultural water conservation
expenses that were deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code for which a
credit is claimed under section 431084.
8.The amount by which the depreciation or
amortization computed under the internal revenue code with respect to property
for which a credit was taken under section 431080 exceeds the amount of
depreciation or amortization computed pursuant to the internal revenue code on
the Arizona adjusted basis of the property.
9.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under section 431080 and that is sold or otherwise disposed of
during the taxable year exceeds the adjusted basis of the property computed
under section 431080.
10.The amount by which
the depreciation or amortization computed under the internal revenue code with
respect to property for which a credit was taken under either section 431081
or 431081.01 exceeds the amount of depreciation or amortization computed
pursuant to the internal revenue code on the Arizona adjusted basis of the
property.
11.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under section 431074.02, 431081 or 431081.01 and
that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year exceeds the
adjusted basis of the property computed under section 431074.02, 431081
or 431081.01, as applicable.
12.The deduction referred
to in section 1341(a)(4) of the internal revenue code for restoration of a
substantial amount held under a claim of right.
13.The amount by which a
net operating loss carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to
section 1341(b)(5) of the internal revenue code exceeds the net operating loss
carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 431029,
subsection F.
14.Any amount deducted in
computing Arizona gross income as expenses for installing solar stub outs or
electric vehicle recharge outlets in this state with respect to which a credit
is claimed pursuant to section 431090.
15.Any wage expenses
deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code for which a credit is claimed
under section 431087 and representing net increases in qualified
employment positions for employment of temporary assistance for needy families
recipients.
16.The amount of any
depreciation allowance allowed pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal
revenue code to the extent not previously added.
17.With respect to
property for which an expense deduction was taken pursuant to section 179 of
the internal revenue code in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2013,
the amount in excess of twentyfive thousand dollars.
18.The amount of a
nonqualified withdrawal, as defined in section 151871, from a college
savings plan established pursuant to section 529 of the internal revenue code
that is made to a distributee to the extent the amount is not included in
computing federal adjusted gross income, except that the amount added under
this paragraph shall not exceed the difference between the amount subtracted
under section 431022 in prior taxable years and the amount added under
this section in any prior taxable years.
19.The amount of
discharge of indebtedness income that is deferred and excluded from the
computation of federal adjusted gross income in the current taxable year
pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue code as added by section
1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L.1115).
20.The amount of any
previously deferred original issue discount that was deducted in computing
federal adjusted gross income in the current year pursuant to section 108(i) of
the internal revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and
reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 1115), to the extent that the amount was
previously subtracted from Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431022,
paragraph 24.
21.For
taxable years beginning from and after December 31, 2011 through December 31,
2014, the amount of any deduction that is claimed in computing federal adjusted
gross income for health insurance premiums or contributions to a health savings
account for which a credit is claimed under section 431087.01.
22.21.Amounts
that are considered to be income under section 431032, subsection D
because the amount is withdrawn from a longterm health care savings
account and not used to pay the taxpayer's longterm health care
expenses. 
22.The
amount of a withdrawal that is not a qualified disability expense as defined in
26 United States Code section 529A and any regulations issued pursuant to that
section from an achieving a better Life experience Act account established
pursuant to 26 United States Code section 529A and any regulations issued
pursuant to that section that is made to a distributee to the extent the amount
is not included in computing federal adjusted gross income, except that the
amount added under this paragraph shall not exceed the difference between the
amount subtracted under section 431022 in prior taxable years and the
amount added under this section in any prior taxable years.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 43-1022, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1022.Subtractions from Arizona gross income
In computing Arizona adjusted gross income, the following
amounts shall be subtracted from Arizona gross income:
1.The amount of exemptions allowed by section 431023.
2.Benefits, annuities and pensions in an amount
totaling not more than two thousand five hundred dollars received from one or
more of the following:
(a)The United States government service retirement
and disability fund, retired or retainer pay of the uniformed services of the
United States, the United States foreign service retirement and disability
system and any other retirement system or plan established by federal law.
(b)The Arizona state retirement system, the
corrections officer retirement plan, the public safety personnel retirement
system, the elected officials' retirement plan, an optional retirement program
established by the Arizona board of regents under section 151628, an
optional retirement program established by a community college district board
under section 151451 or a retirement plan established for employees of a
county, city or town in this state.
3.A beneficiary's share of the fiduciary adjustment
to the extent that the amount determined by section 431333 decreases the
beneficiary's Arizona gross income.
4.Interest income received on obligations of the
United States, less any interest on indebtedness, or other related expenses,
and deducted in arriving at Arizona gross income, which were incurred or
continued to purchase or carry such obligations.
5.The excess of a partner's share of income
required to be included under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code
over the income required to be included under chapter 14, article 2 of this
title.
6.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
losses determined pursuant to chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the
losses allowable under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
7.The amount by which the adjusted basis of
property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to this title and
the income tax act of 1954, as amended, exceeds the adjusted basis of such
property computed pursuant to the internal revenue code.This
paragraph shall apply to all property that is held for the production of income
and that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year other than
depreciable property used in a trade or business.
8.The amount allowed by section 431025 for
contributions during the taxable year of agricultural crops to charitable
organizations.
9.The portion of any wages or salaries paid or
incurred by the taxpayer for the taxable year that is equal to the amount of
the federal work opportunity credit, the empowerment zone employment credit,
the credit for employer paid social security taxes on employee cash tips and
the Indian employment credit that the taxpayer received under sections 45A,
45B, 51(a) and 1396 of the internal revenue code.
10.The amount of prizes or winnings less than five
thousand dollars in a single taxable year from any of the state lotteries
established and operated pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
11.The amount of exploration expenses that is
determined pursuant to section 617 of the internal revenue code, that has been
deferred in a taxable year ending before January 1, 1990 and for which a
subtraction has not previously been made. The subtraction shall be made on a
ratable basis as the units of produced ores or minerals discovered or explored
as a result of this exploration are sold.
12.The amount included in federal adjusted gross
income pursuant to section 86 of the internal revenue code, relating to
taxation of social security and railroad retirement benefits.
13.To the extent not already excluded from Arizona
gross income under the internal revenue code, compensation received for active
service as a member of the reserves, the national guard or the armed forces of
the United States, including compensation for service in a combat zone as
determined under section 112 of the internal revenue code.
14.The amount of unreimbursed medical and hospital
costs, adoption counseling, legal and agency fees and other nonrecurring costs
of adoption not to exceed three thousand dollars. In the case of a husband and
wife who file separate returns, the subtraction may be taken by either taxpayer
or may be divided between them, but the total subtractions allowed both husband
and wife shall not exceed three thousand dollars.The subtraction
under this paragraph may be taken for the costs that are described in this paragraph
and that are incurred in prior years, but the subtraction may be taken only in
the year during which the final adoption order is granted.
15.The amount authorized by section 431027
for the taxable year relating to qualified wood stoves, wood fireplaces or gas
fired fireplaces.
16.The amount by which a net operating loss
carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 431029,
subsection F exceeds the net operating loss carryover or capital loss carryover
allowable pursuant to section 1341(b)(5) of the internal revenue code.
17.Any amount of qualified educational expenses
that is distributed from a qualified state tuition program determined pursuant
to section 529 of the internal revenue code and that is included in income in computing
federal adjusted gross income.
18.Any item of income resulting from an installment
sale that has been properly subjected to income tax in another state in a
previous taxable year and that is included in Arizona gross income in the
current taxable year.
19.The amount authorized by section 431030
relating to holocaust survivors.
20.For property placed in service:
(a)In taxable years beginning before December 31,
2012, an amount equal to the depreciation allowable pursuant to section 167(a)
of the internal revenue code for the taxable year computed as if the election
described in section 168(k)(2)(D)(iii) of the internal revenue code had been
made for each applicable class of property in the year the property was placed
in service.
(b)In taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2013, an amount determined in the year
the asset was placed in service based on the calculation in subdivision (a) of
this paragraph.In the first taxable year beginning from and after
December 31, 2013, the taxpayer may elect to subtract the amount necessary to
make the depreciation claimed to date for the purposes of this title the same
as it would have been if subdivision (c) of this paragraph had applied for the
entire time the asset was in service. Subdivision (c) of this paragraph
applies for the remainder of the asset's life. If the taxpayer does not make
the election under this subdivision, subdivision (a) of this paragraph applies
for the remainder of the asset's life.
(c)In
taxable years beginning from and after December 31, 2013, an amount equal to
the depreciation allowable pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal revenue
code for the taxable year as computed as if the additional allowance for
depreciation had been ten per cent percent of the amount allowed
pursuant to section 168(k) of the internal revenue code.
21.With respect to property that is sold or
otherwise disposed of during the taxable year by a taxpayer that complied with
section 431021, paragraph 16 with respect to that property, the amount
of depreciation that has been allowed pursuant to section 167(a) of the
internal revenue code to the extent that the amount has not already reduced
Arizona taxable income in the current or prior taxable years.
22.With respect to property for which an adjustment
was made under section 431021, paragraph 17, an amount equal to onefifth
of the amount of the adjustment pursuant to section 431021, paragraph 17
in the year in which the amount was adjusted under section 431021,
paragraph 17 and in each of the following four years.
23.The amount contributed during the taxable year
to college savings plans established pursuant to section 529 of the internal
revenue code to the extent that the contributions were not deducted in
computing federal adjusted gross income. The amount subtracted shall not
exceed:
(a)Two thousand dollars for a single individual or
a head of household.
(b)Four thousand dollars for a married couple
filing a joint return. In the case of a husband and wife who file separate
returns, the subtraction may be taken by either taxpayer or may be divided
between them, but the total subtractions allowed both husband and wife shall
not exceed four thousand dollars.
24.The amount of any original issue discount that
was deferred and not allowed to be deducted in computing federal adjusted gross
income in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal
revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment
act of 2009 (P.L. 1115).
25.The amount of previously deferred discharge of
indebtedness income that is included in the computation of federal adjusted
gross income in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the
internal revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and
reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5), to the extent that the amount was
previously added to Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431021,
paragraph 19.
26.The portion of the net operating loss
carryforward that would have been allowed as a deduction in the current year
pursuant to section 172 of the internal revenue code if the election described
in section 172(b)(1)(H) of the internal revenue code had not been made in the
year of the loss that exceeds the actual net operating loss carryforward that
was deducted in arriving at federal adjusted gross income. This subtraction
only applies to taxpayers who made an election under section 172(b)(1)(H) of
the internal revenue code as amended by section 1211 of the American recovery
and reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 1115) or as amended by section 13 of
the worker, homeownership, and business assistance act of 2009 (P.L. 11192).
27.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2013, the amount of any net capital gain included in federal
adjusted gross income for the taxable year derived from investment in a
qualified small business as determined by the Arizona commerce authority
pursuant to section 411518.
28.An amount of any net long-term capital gain
included in federal adjusted gross income for the taxable year that is derived
from an investment in an asset acquired after December 31, 2011, as follows:
(a)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2013, ten per cent
percent of the net long-term capital gain included in federal
adjusted gross income.
(b)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2014, twenty per cent
percent of the net long-term capital gain included in federal
adjusted gross income.
(c)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2014, twenty-five per cent percent of the net long-term
capital gain included in federal adjusted gross income.
For the purposes of this paragraph, a
transferee that receives an asset by gift or at the death of a transferor is
considered to have acquired the asset when the asset was acquired by the
transferor.If the date an asset is acquired cannot be verified, a
subtraction under this paragraph is not allowed.
29.If an individual is not claiming itemized
deductions pursuant to section 431042, the amount of premium costs for
long-term care insurance, as defined in section 201691.
30.With respect to a long-term health care savings
account established pursuant to section 431032, the amount deposited by
the taxpayer in the account during the taxable year to the extent that the
taxpayer's contributions are included in the taxpayer's federal adjusted gross
income.
31.Any
amount of qualified disability expenses that is distributed from a qualified
able program determined pursuant to 26 United States Code section 529A and any
regulations issued pursuant to that section and that is included in income in
computing federal adjusted gross income.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 46, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding chapter 8, to read:
CHAPTER 8
ARIZONA ABLE PROGRAM
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE46-901.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."ABLE"
means the achieving a better life experience act.
2."Account"
means an individual account in the fund established as prescribed in this
article for a single designated beneficiary.
3."Committee"
means the achieving a better life experience act oversight committee.
4."Department"
means the department of economic security.
5."Designated
beneficiary" means the eligible individual who establishes an account and
who is the owner of the account.
6."Eligible
individual" means an individual who is entitled to benefits based on
blindness or disability under title II or XVI of the social security act, and
such blindness or disability occurred before the date on which the individual attained
twentysix years of age or a disability certification with respect to
such individual is filed with the United States secretary of the treasury for
such taxable year as stipulated in 26 United States Code section 529A.
7."Financial
institution" means any bank, commercial bank, national bank, savings bank,
savings and loan association, credit union, insurance company, brokerage firm
or other similar entity that is authorized to do business in this state.
8."Fund"
means the ABLE program fund.
9."Program"
means the qualified ABLE program that is established under this article and as
defined in 26 United States Code section 529A.
10."Qualified
disability expenses" means any expenses that are related to the eligible
individual's blindness or disability and that are for the benefit of an
eligible individual who is the designated beneficiary of an account, including
education, housing, transportation, employment training and support, assistive
technology and personal support services, health care, prevention and wellness,
financial management and administrative services, legal fees, expenses for
oversight and monitoring and funeral and burial expenses and any other expenses
that are approved by the United States secretary of the treasury as required by
26 United States code section 529A. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-902.Qualified ABLE program; duties
The department shall:
1.Develop
and implement the program in a manner consistent with this article through the
adoption of rules, guidelines and procedures in consultation with the
committee.
2.Retain
professional services, if necessary, including accountants, auditors,
consultants and other experts.
3.Seek
rulings and other guidance from the United States department of the treasury
and the internal revenue service relating to the program.
4.Make
changes to the program, as necessary, to comply with 26 United States Code
section 529A and any regulations issued pursuant to that section.
5.Provide
notification to the chairpersons of the senate health and human services
committee and the house of representatives children and family affairs
committee or their successor committees of any material changes to the federal
program that would necessitate changes in this article or rules adopted
pursuant to this article.
6.Negotiate
and select the financial institution or institutions to act as the depository
and manager of the program in accordance with this article. The department
shall consult with the committee when selecting the financial institution or
institutions.
7.Negotiate
a fee with the financial institution or institutions.
8.Maintain
the program on behalf of this state as required by 26 United States Code section
529A and any regulations issued pursuant to that section.
9.Develop
and implement requirements, in consultation with the committee, for
disbursements from accounts for qualified disability expenses.
10.Provide
for separate accounting for each designated beneficiary of the designated
beneficiary's account.
11.Develop
procedures for educating account owners about nonqualified expenses if the
department finds that distributions from any account were made for nonqualified
expenses. The department shall contact the financial institution to ensure such
nonqualified expenses are not approved in the future.
12.Develop
and provide, in consultation with the committee, educational materials on the
program, qualified disability expenses and requirements for being a designated
beneficiary.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-903.Use of contractor as account depository; program manager
A.The
department shall implement the operation of the program through the use of one
or more financial institutions to act as the depositories of the fund and
managers of the program. Under the program, persons may submit applications for
enrollment in the program and establish accounts in the fund at the financial
institution. Monies paid by account owners to the fund for deposit in accounts
maintained by the fund at a financial institution shall be paid to the
financial institution as an agent of the fund and shall provide that all monies
paid by account owners to fund accounts held at financial institutions are
being paid to the fund.
B.The
department shall solicit proposals from financial institutions to act as the
depositories of fund monies and managers of the program. Financial institutions
that submit proposals shall describe the financial instruments that will be
held in accounts. After review and recommendation from the committee, the
department shall select proposals from financial institutions to act as
depositories and managers. The solicitation and selection process under this
section is exempt from the procurement code requirements of title 41, chapter
23.
C.On the
recommendation of the committee, the department shall select the financial
institution or institutions to implement the program from among bidding
financial institutions that demonstrate the most advantageous combination, both
to potential program participants and this state, of the following factors:
1.Financial
stability and integrity.
2.The
safety of the investment instruments being offered, taking into account any
insurance provided with respect to these instruments.
3.The
ability of the financial institutions, directly or through a subcontract, to
satisfy record keeping and reporting requirements.
4.The
financial institution's plan for promoting the program and the investment it is
willing to make to promote the program.
5.The fees,
if any, proposed to be charged to eligible individuals for maintaining
accounts.
6.The
minimum initial deposit that the financial institution will require for the
investment of fund monies, if any, and the willingness of the financial
institution to accept contributions through payroll deduction plans and other
deposit plans.
7.Any other
benefits to this state or its residents included in the proposal, including an
account opening fee payable to the department by the designated beneficiary and
an additional fee from the financial institution for statewide program
marketing by the department.
D.The
department shall enter into a contract with a financial institution or
financial institutions to serve as program managers and depositories. Program
management contracts shall provide the terms and conditions by which financial
institutions shall sell interests in the fund to designated beneficiaries,
invest monies in the fund and manage the program.
E.The
department may select more than one financial institution and investment for
the program if the department concludes that the choice of instrument vehicles
is in the best interest of the designated beneficiaries and will not interfere
with the promotion of the program.
F.A program
manager shall:
1.Take all
action required to keep the program in compliance with the requirements of this
article and all action not contrary to this article or its contract to manage
the program so that it is treated as a qualified ABLE program under 26 United
States Code section 529A and any regulations issued pursuant to that section.
2.Keep
adequate records of each of the fund's accounts, keep each account segregated
from each other account and provide the department with the information
necessary to prepare statements required by 26 United States Code section 529A
and any regulations issued pursuant to that section and any annual reports
prepared by the department.
3.Provide
representatives of the department or other state agencies with access to the
program manager's books and records to the extent needed to determine
compliance with the contract.
4.Hold all
operating monies in the fund in the name of and for the benefit of the fund and
this state. 
G.Any
contract executed between the department and a financial institution pursuant
to this section shall be for a term of at least three years and not more than
seven years.
H.The
department may terminate a contract with a financial institution at any time
for good cause on the recommendation of the committee. If a contract is
terminated pursuant to this subsection, the department shall take custody of
accounts held at that financial institution and shall seek to promptly transfer
the accounts to another financial institution that is selected as a program
manager and into investment instruments as similar to the original investments
as possible.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-904.Incapacitated or minor eligible individual
A.If an
eligible individual is a minor or an incapacitated adult, the account may be
opened and managed by any of the following:
1.An agent
under a valid power of attorney signed by the eligible individual at a time
when the eligible individual had capacity to execute the power.
2.A parent
of a minor child who is an eligible individual.
3.A
court-appointed conservator of the estate of the eligible individual.
4.A
court-appointed guardian of the eligible individual, with express
authorization.
B.In any
case in which a court authorizes the conservator or guardian of the eligible
individual to open and manage the account, the court, in its discretion, may
waive any requirement of further accounting pursuant to section 145419
or inclusion in any bond established for the conservatorship pursuant to
section 145411.
C.Any
person establishing an account pursuant to this section on behalf of an eligible
individual shall be treated as the account owner for purposes of this article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-905.Program requirements
A.The
program shall require:
1.A
designated beneficiary to have only one account.
2.A
designated beneficiary to direct the investment of any contributions to the
program or any earnings not more than two times in any calendar year.
3.Contributions
to accounts to be made only in cash.
4.That any
excess contributions with respect to a designated beneficiary be promptly
withdrawn in a nonqualified withdrawal or be rolled over to another account.
B.Contributions
to and earnings on a designated beneficiary's account shall not be counted as
income or resources of the designated beneficiary for the purposes of
eligibility for any program under this title or title 36, chapter 29.
C.Subject
to any outstanding payments due for qualified disability expenses, on the death
of the designated beneficiary, the state may file a claim for payment of all
amounts remaining in the account not in excess of the amount equal to the total
medical assistance paid for the designated beneficiary after establishment of
the account as authorized by 26 United States Code section 529A and any
regulations issued pursuant to that section.
D.An
account may be opened by a designated beneficiary by completing an application
in the form prescribed by the department. Separate records and accounting
shall be maintained for each account for each designated beneficiary.
E.A
designated beneficiary may not use an interest in an account as security for a
loan. Any pledge of an interest in an account is of no force and effect.
F.The
financial institution shall provide statements to each designated beneficiary
at least once each year within thirtyone days after the twelve-month
period to which they relate. The statement shall identify the contributions
made during a preceding twelve-month period, the total contributions made
through the end of the period, the value of the account as of the end of this
period, distributions made during this period and any other matters that the
department requires be reported to the account owner.
G.Statements
and information returns relating to accounts shall be prepared and filed to the
extent required by federal or state law.
H.Any
social security numbers, addresses or telephone numbers of designated
beneficiaries that come into the possession of the department are confidential,
are not public records and shall not be released by the department.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-906.Limitations of article
A.This
article does not:
1.Give any
designated beneficiary any rights or legal interest in an account unless the
designated beneficiary is the account owner.
2.Guarantee
that an eligible individual will receive services from a department or agency
of this state related to the eligible individual's disability.
3.Guarantee
that the amounts deposited in an eligible individual's account and any earnings
on that account pursuant to the program will be sufficient to cover any
qualified disability expense of the eligible individual.
B.This
article does not establish any obligation of this state or any agency of this
state to guarantee for the benefit of any eligible individual, contributor to
an account or designated beneficiary any of the following:
1.The
return of any amounts contributed to an account.
2.The rate
of interest or other return on any account.
3.The
payment of interest or other return on any account.
C.Every
contract, application, deposit slip or other similar document that may be used
in connection with a contribution to an account shall clearly indicate that the
account is not insured by this state and neither the principal deposited nor
the investment return is guaranteed by this state.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-907.Achieving a better life experience act oversight
committee; termination
A.The
achieving a better life experience act oversight committee is established in
the department consisting of the following members:
1.The
director of the department or the director's designee.
2.The state
treasurer or the state treasurer's designee.
3.One
member who has knowledge, skill and experience in investment, asset management
or financialrelated experience and who is appointed by the governor.
4.One
member who is a licensed attorney in this state, who has knowledge, skill and
experience in special needs trusts and disability issues and who is appointed
by the governor.
5.One
member who is an eligible individual and who is appointed by the governor.
6.One
member who is a family member of an eligible individual and who is appointed by
the governor.
7.One
representative of a communitybased organization that supports or
advocates for individuals with disabilities who is appointed by the governor.
B.The
committee shall select a chairperson from the committee's membership. The
committee shall meet at least once each calendar quarter.
C.Appointed
committee members are eligible to receive compensation pursuant to section 38611
for each day of attendance at committee meetings.
D.The
committee shall:
1.Make
recommendations and provide guidance for the establishment, implementation and
improvement of the program, including statutory and rule changes.
2.Make
recommendations regarding the selection of one or more financial institutions
to act as depositories and managers of the accounts.
3.Review
regulations adopted by the United States secretary of the treasury and identify
changes necessary for program compliance.
4.Provide
advice regarding requirements for disbursements from accounts for qualified
disability expenses.
5.Monitor
the use and effectiveness of the program, including the number of accounts
established and used, the number of designated beneficiaries being served, a
description of the types of disabilities the designated beneficiaries have and
the types of expenses for which disbursements have been made.
E.Members
of the committee are immune from personal liability with respect to all actions
that are taken in good faith and within the scope of the committee's authority.
F.Appointed
committee members serve fouryear terms and may not serve more than two
terms on the committee.
G.The
committee established by this section ends on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section
413103.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-908.Program termination
The program established
by this article ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 413102. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Annual report
The department of economic security shall submit an annual
report for five years after the effective date of this section to the speaker
of the house of representatives, the president of the senate and the governor
that summarizes the effectiveness of the program, including the number of
accounts established and used, the number of designated beneficiaries being
served, a description of the types of disabilities the designated beneficiaries
have and a summary of the qualified disability expenses that disbursements from
the accounts are being used for. The first annual report is due on or before
December 31, 2017. The remaining four reports are due on or before December 31
of each year thereafter.
Sec.7.Initial terms of members of the
achieving a better life experience act oversight committee
A.Notwithstanding
section 46-907, Arizona Revised Statutes, the initial terms of members of the
achieving a better life experience act oversight committee are as follows:
1.The members who are appointed pursuant to section
46-907, subsection A, paragraphs 3, 4 and 7, Arizona Revised Statutes, serve
terms ending January 31, 2018.
2.The members who are appointed pursuant to section
46-907, subsection A, paragraphs 5 and 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, serve terms
ending January 31, 2020.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.
Sec.8.Rulemaking
A.On or before July 1, 2017, the department of
economic security shall establish the rules necessary to implement the
achieving a better life experience act program established by title 46, chapter
8, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act.
B.For the purposes of this act, the department of
economic security is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41,
chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of
this act. The department shall consult with the achieving a better life
experience act oversight committee established by section 46-907, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as added by this act, when drafting the rules and shall
provide a thirtyday public comment period on the draft rules and hold at
least one public hearing before adopting the rules.
Sec.9.Department of economic security; appropriation; exemption
A.The sum of $240,000 is appropriated from the
state general fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the department of economic
security to implement and administer the achieving a better life experience act
program established by title 46, chapter 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added
by this act.
B.The appropriation made in subsection A of this
section is exempt from the provisions of section 35-190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations.

