







REFERENCE TITLE: occupational disease; post-traumatic
  stress disorder







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2350









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem, Cardenas: Bowers, Campbell, Cobb, Larkin, Lawrence, Thorpe





AN ACT

Amending sections
23-901 and 23-901.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to workers'
compensation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
23-901, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-901.Definitions
In this
chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Award"
means the finding or decision of an administrative law judge or the commission
as to the amount of compensation or benefit due an injured employee or the
dependents of a deceased employee.
2."Client"
means an individual, association, company, firm, partnership, corporation or
any other legally recognized entity that is subject to this chapter and that
enters into a professional employer agreement with a professional employer
organization.
3."Coemployee"
means every person employed by an injured employee's employer.
4."Commission"
means the industrial commission of Arizona.
5."Compensation"
means the compensation and benefits provided by this chapter.
6."Employee",
"workman", "worker" and "operative" means:
(a)Every person in the
service of the state or a county, city, town, municipal corporation or school
district, including regular members of lawfully constituted police and fire
departments of cities and towns, whether by election, appointment or contract
of hire.
(b)Every person in the
service of any employer subject to this chapter, including aliens and minors
legally or illegally permitted to work for hire, but not including a person
whose employment is both:
(i)Casual.
(ii)Not in the usual
course of the trade, business or occupation of the employer.
(c)Lessees of mining
property and their employees and contractors engaged in the performance of work
that is a part of the business conducted by the lessor and over which the
lessor retains supervision or control are within the meaning of this paragraph
employees of the lessor, and are deemed to be drawing wages as are usually paid
employees for similar work. The lessor may deduct from the proceeds of ores
mined by the lessees the premium required by this chapter to be paid for such
employees.
(d)Regular members of
volunteer fire departments organized pursuant to title 48, chapter 5, article
1, regular firemen of any volunteer fire department, including private fire
protection service organizations, organized pursuant to title 10, chapters 24
through 40, volunteer firemen serving as members of a fire department of any
incorporated city or town or an unincorporated area without pay or without full
pay and on a parttime basis, and voluntary policemen and volunteer
firemen serving in any incorporated city, town or unincorporated area without
pay or without full pay and on a parttime basis, are deemed to be
employees, but for the purposes of this chapter, the basis for computing wages
for premium payments and compensation benefits for regular members of volunteer
fire departments organized pursuant to title 48, chapter 5, article 1, or
organized pursuant to title 10, chapters 24 through 40, regular members of any
private fire protection service organization, volunteer firemen and volunteer
policemen of these departments or organizations shall be the salary equal to
the beginning salary of the same rank or grade in the fulltime service
with the city, town, volunteer fire department or private fire protection
service organization, provided if there is no fulltime equivalent then
the salary equivalent shall be as determined by resolution of the governing
body of the city, town or volunteer fire department or corporation.
(e)Members of the
department of public safety reserve, organized pursuant to section 411715,
are deemed to be employees. For the purposes of this chapter, the basis for
computing wages for premium payments and compensation benefits for a member of
the department of public safety reserve who is a peace officer shall be the
salary received by officers of the department of public safety for their first
month of regular duty as an officer. For members of the department of public
safety reserve who are not peace officers, the basis for computing premiums and
compensation benefits is four hundred dollars a month.
(f)Any person placed in
onthejob evaluation or in onthejob training under
the department of economic security's temporary assistance for needy families
program or vocational rehabilitation program shall be deemed to be an employee
of the department for the purpose of coverage under the state workers'
compensation laws only.The basis for computing premium payments and
compensation benefits shall be two hundred dollars per month. Any person
receiving vocational rehabilitation services under the department of economic
security's vocational rehabilitation program whose major evaluation or training
activity is academic, whether as an enrolled attending student or by
correspondence, or who is confined to a hospital or penal institution, shall
not be deemed to be an employee of the department for any purpose.
(g)Regular members of a
volunteer sheriff's reserve, which may be established by resolution of the
county board of supervisors, to assist the sheriff in the performance of the
sheriff's official duties. A roster of the current members shall monthly be
certified to the clerk of the board of supervisors by the sheriff and shall not
exceed the maximum number authorized by the board. Certified members of an
authorized volunteer sheriff's reserve shall be deemed to be employees of the
county for the purpose of coverage under the Arizona workers' compensation laws
and occupational disease disability laws and shall be entitled to receive the
benefits of these laws for any compensable injuries or disabling conditions that
arise out of and occur in the course of the performance of duties authorized
and directed by the sheriff. Compensation benefits and premium payments shall
be based upon on the salary received by a regular fulltime
deputy sheriff of the county involved for the first month of regular patrol
duty as an officer for each certified member of a volunteer sheriff's
reserve.This subdivision shall not be
construed to does
not provide compensation coverage for any member of a sheriff's posse
who is not a certified member of an authorized volunteer sheriff's reserve
except as a participant in a search and rescue mission or a search and rescue
training mission.
(h)A working member of
a partnership may be deemed to be an employee entitled to the benefits provided
by this chapter upon on written acceptance, by
endorsement, at the discretion of the insurance carrier for the partnership of
an application for coverage by the working partner.The basis for
computing premium payments and compensation benefits for the working partner
shall be an assumed average monthly wage of not less
than at least six
hundred dollars nor but not more than the
maximum wage provided in section 231041 and is subject to the
discretionary approval of the insurance carrier.Any compensation for
permanent partial or permanent total disability payable to the partner shall be
computed on the lesser of the assumed monthly wage agreed to by the insurance
carrier on the acceptance of the application for coverage or the actual average
monthly wage received by the partner at the time of injury.
(i)The sole proprietor
of a business subject to this chapter may be deemed to be an employee entitled
to the benefits provided by this chapter on written acceptance, by endorsement,
at the discretion of the insurance carrier of an application for coverage by
the sole proprietor.The basis for computing premium payments and
compensation benefits for the sole proprietor shall be an assumed average
monthly wage of not less than at least six hundred dollars
nor but not more than the maximum wage provided by section 231041
and is subject to the discretionary approval of the insurance
carrier.Any compensation for permanent partial or permanent total
disability payable to the sole proprietor shall be computed on the lesser of
the assumed monthly wage agreed to by the insurance carrier on the acceptance
of the application for coverage or the actual average monthly wage received by
the sole proprietor at the time of injury.
(j)A member of the
Arizona national guard, Arizona state guard or unorganized militia shall be
deemed a state employee and entitled to coverage under the Arizona workers'
compensation law at all times while the member is receiving the payment of the
member's military salary from the state of Arizona under competent military
orders or upon on order of the governor. Compensation
benefits shall be based upon on the monthly military pay
rate to which the member is entitled at the time of injury, but not less than a salary of at least four hundred dollars
per month, nor but not more than the maximum provided by the
workers' compensation law. No Arizona
compensation benefits shall not
inure to a member compensable under federal law.
(k)Certified ambulance
drivers and attendants who serve without pay or without full pay on a parttime
basis are deemed to be employees and entitled to the benefits provided by this
chapter and the basis for computing wages for premium payments and compensation
benefits for certified ambulance personnel shall be four hundred dollars per
month.
(l)Volunteer workers of
a licensed health care institution may be deemed to be employees and entitled
to the benefits provided by this chapter upon
on written acceptance
by the insurance carrier of an application by the health care institution for
coverage of such the volunteers.The basis for
computing wages for premium payments and compensation benefits for volunteers
shall be four hundred dollars per month.
(m)Personnel who
participate in a search or rescue operation or a search or rescue training
operation that carries a mission identifier assigned by the division of
emergency management as provided in section 35192.01 and who serve
without compensation as volunteer state employees. The basis for computation of
wages for premium purposes and compensation benefits is the total volunteer manhours
recorded by the division of emergency management in a given quarter multiplied
by the amount determined by the appropriate risk management formula.
(n)Personnel who
participate in emergency management training, exercises or drills that are duly
enrolled or registered with the division of emergency management or any
political subdivision as provided in section 26314, subsection C and who
serve without compensation as volunteer state employees.The basis
for computation of wages for premium purposes and compensation benefits is the
total volunteer manhours recorded by the division of emergency
management or political subdivision during a given training session, exercise
or drill multiplied by the amount determined by the appropriate risk management
formula.
(o)Regular members of
the Arizona game and fish department reserve, organized pursuant to section 17214.
The basis for computing wages for premium payments and compensation benefits
for a member of the reserve is the salary received by game rangers and wildlife
managers of the Arizona game and fish department for their first month of
regular duty.
(p)Every person
employed pursuant to a professional employer agreement.
7."General
order" means an order applied generally throughout the state to all
persons under jurisdiction of the commission.
8."Heartrelated
or perivascular injury, illness or death" means myocardial infarction,
coronary thrombosis or any other similar sudden, violent or acute process
involving the heart or perivascular system, or any death resulting therefrom,
and any weakness, disease or other condition of the heart or perivascular
system, or any death resulting therefrom.
9."Insurance
carrier" means every insurance carrier duly authorized by the director of
insurance to write workers' compensation or occupational disease compensation
insurance in the this state of
Arizona.
10."Interested
party" means the employer, the employee, or if the employee is deceased,
the employee's estate, the surviving spouse or dependents, the commission, the
insurance carrier or their representative.
11."Mental
injury, illness or condition" means any mental, emotional, psychotic or
neurotic injury, illness or condition.
12."Order"
means and includes any rule, direction, requirement, standard, determination or
decision other than an award or a directive by the commission or an
administrative law judge relative to any entitlement to compensation benefits,
or to the amount thereof, and any procedural ruling relative to the processing
or adjudicating of a compensation matter.
13."Personal
injury by accident arising out of and in the course of employment" means
any of the following:
(a)Personal injury by
accident arising out of and in the course of employment.
(b)An injury caused by
the wilful act of a third person directed against an employee because of the
employee's employment, but does not include a disease unless resulting from the
injury.
(c)An occupational
disease or post-traumatic
stress disorder that is due to causes and conditions characteristic of
and peculiar to a particular trade, occupation, process or employment, and not
the ordinary diseases to which the general public is exposed, and subject to
section 23901.01.
14."post-traumatic stress disorder" has the
same meaning prescribed in the most recent edition of the diagnostic and
statistical manual of mental disorders for the American psychiatric association.
14.15"Professional
employer agreement" means a written contract between a client and a
professional employer organization:
(a)In which the
professional employer organization expressly agrees to coemploy all or a
majority of the employees providing services for the client.In
determining whether the professional employer organization employs all or a
majority of the employees of a client, any person employed pursuant to the
terms of the professional employer agreement after the initial placement of
client employees on the payroll of the professional employer organization shall
be included.
(b)That is intended to
be ongoing rather than temporary in nature.
(c)In which employer
responsibilities for worksite employees, including hiring, firing and
disciplining, are expressly allocated between the professional employer
organization and the client in the agreement.
15.16."Professional
employer organization" means any person engaged in the business of
providing professional employer services. Professional employer organization
does not include a temporary help firm or an employment agency.
16.17."Professional
employer services" means the service of entering into coemployment
relationships under this chapter to which all or a majority of the employees
providing services to a client or to a division or work unit of a client are
covered employees.
17.18."Special
order" means an order other than a general order.
18.19."Weakness,
disease or other condition of the heart or perivascular system" means
arteriosclerotic heart disease, cerebral vascular disease, peripheral vascular
disease, cardiovascular disease, angina pectoris, congestive heart trouble,
coronary insufficiency, ischemia and all other similar weaknesses, diseases and
conditions, and also previous episodes or instances of myocardial infarction,
coronary thrombosis or any similar sudden, violent or acute process involving
the heart or perivascular system.
19.20."Workers'
compensation" means workmen's compensation as used in article XVIII,
section 8, Constitution of Arizona. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
23-901.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-901.01.Occupational disease; post-traumatic stress disorder
proximate causation; definitions
A.The occupational
diseases as defined by section 23901, paragraph 13, subdivision (c)
shall be deemed to arise out of the employment only if all of the following six
requirements exist:
1.There is a direct
causal connection between the conditions under which the work is performed and
the occupational disease.
2.The disease can be
seen to have followed as a natural incident of the work as a result of the
exposure occasioned by the nature of the employment.
3.The disease can be
fairly traced to the employment as the proximate cause.
4.The disease does not
come from a hazard to which workers would have been equally exposed outside of
the employment.
5.The disease is
incidental to the character of the business and not independent of the relation
of employer and employee.
6.The disease after its
contraction appears to have had its origin in a risk connected with the
employment, and to have flowed from that source as a natural consequence,
although it need not have been foreseen or expected.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section and section 231043.01, any disease,
infirmity or impairment of a firefighter's or peace officer's health that is
caused by brain, bladder, rectal or colon cancer, lymphoma, leukemia, or aden carcinoma adenocarcinoma
or mesothelioma of the respiratory tract or post-traumatic stress disorder and that results in
disability or death is presumed to be an occupational disease as defined in
section 23901, paragraph 13, subdivision (c) and is deemed to arise out
of employment. The presumption is granted if all of the following apply:
1.The firefighter or
peace officer passed a physical examination before employment and the
examination did not indicate evidence of cancer or posttraumatic stress disorder.
2.For claims relating to the cancers
provided in this subsection, the firefighter or peace officer was
assigned to hazardous duty for at least five years.
3.The firefighter or
peace officer was exposed to a known carcinogen as defined by the international
agency for research on cancer and informed the department of this exposure, and
the carcinogen is reasonably related to the cancer or was exposed to an environment that is consistent
with causing posttraumatic stress disorder.
C.Subsection B of this
section applies to former firefighters and peace officers who are sixtyfive
years of age or younger.
D.Subsection B of this
section does not apply to cancers of the respiratory tract if the firefighter
or peace officer has smoked tobacco products.
E.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Firefighter"
means a fulltime firefighter who was regularly assigned to hazardous
duty.
2."Peace
officer" means a any fulltime peace police
officer, highway
patrol officer, probation officer or corrections officer, in addition to any
officer who was regularly assigned to hazardous duty as a part of a
special operations, special weapons and tactics, explosive ordinance disposal
or hazardous materials response unit. END_STATUTE

