







REFERENCE TITLE: mobile home parks; tree maintenance







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2304









Introduced by
Representatives
  Coleman: Ackerley, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
33-1434, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona mobile home parks
residential landlord and tenant act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1434, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1434.Landlord to maintain fit premises
A.The landlord shall:
1.Comply with the requirements of all applicable
city, county and state codes materially affecting health and safety.
2.Make all repairs and do whatever is necessary to
put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition.
3.Keep all common areas of the premises in a clean
and safe condition.
4.Maintain in good and safe working order and
condition all swimming pool, shower, bathhouse, electrical, plumbing and
sanitary facilities, including the recreational hall or meeting facilities
supplied or required to be supplied ormaintained by him the
landlord.
5.Provide for removal of garbage, rubbish, and other waste
incidental to the occupancy of the mobile home space.
6.Furnish outlets for electric, water and sewer
services.The landlord shall also furnish a prospective tenant with
information concerning the type, size and power rating of all electrical, water
and sewer connections.
7.Provide a statement of proposed interruption of
utility service to the tenants within a reasonable time frame except in the
case of an interruption caused by an emergency.An emergency does
not include any failure or refusal on the part of the landlord to fulfill his the landlord's duties and obligations as
specified in this section.A statement of proposed interruption of
utility service may be provided by posting an announcement of the period of the
interruption in a conspicuous place within the mobile home park or by
individual delivery to each tenant.
B.A mobile home park landlord shall not impose any
conditions of rental or occupancy which
that restrict the mobile
home owner in his the mobile home owner's choice
of a seller of fuel, furnishings, goods, services or mobile homes connected
with the rental or occupancy of a mobile home space unless such condition is
necessary to protect the health, safety, aesthetic value or welfare of mobile
home residents in the park.However, the landlord may impose
reasonable conditions relating to central gas, oil, electricity, or water meter systems in the park.
C.Unless
specifically provided otherwise in a written rental agreement executed before
January 1, 2017 or on the rental agreement's renewal date, whichever is later,
the landlord's responsibility to maintain fit premises shall include the
maintenance of any trees located on the mobile home space if those trees were
in place on the mobile home space when the tenant took possession of the space.
D.For new tenants who are moving into a mobile
home park, any rental agreements that are executed or adopted after December
31, 2016 shall specifically disclose in writing any requirement that the tenant
maintain one or more existing trees located on the mobile home space.
E.Any
change regarding the tenant's obligation to maintain any one or more trees
located on the mobile home space constitutes a substantial modification of the
rental agreement pursuant to section 33-1452. END_STATUTE

