







REFERENCE TITLE: state transportation board; tribal
  representation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2317









Introduced by
Representatives
  Hale, Andrade, Benally, Bolding, Cardenas, Fernandez, Mendez, Rios, Saldate,
  Velasquez, Wheeler: Alston, Clark, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Larkin, Mach, McCune
  Davis, Meyer, Senator Bradley





AN ACT

amending section
28302, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the state transportation
board.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
28-302, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-302.Transportation board; members; appointments; terms;
compensation
A.A transportation
board is established in the department of transportation.
B.The board consists of
the following members:
1.One member from each transportation district
with a population of less than two million two hundred thousand persons
according to the most recent United States decennial census. and
2.Two members from each transportation district
with a population of two million two hundred thousand or more persons according
to the most recent United States decennial census.
3.A representative of a tribal government.
C.The governor shall
appoint members of the board for terms of six years pursuant to section 38211
to expire on the third Monday in January of the appropriate
year.When appointing members from a transportation district with a
population of two million two hundred thousand or more persons according to the
most recent United States decennial census, the governor shall take into
account geographic balance within the district.
D.Except for the member appointed
pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section, a person is not
qualified to be a member of the board representing a transportation district if
the person has not been a resident and taxpayer of this state and the county
from which the person is chosen for at least five years immediately before the
person's appointment.
E.The governor shall
not appoint a member to serve two terms in succession. If a transportation
district includes more than one county, the governor shall rotate the
appointment of members for the district among the counties in the district.
F.If a member who
represents a transportation district changes the member's residence to another
county, the member's office becomes vacant.
G.Each member is eligible
to receive compensation pursuant to section 38611. END_STATUTE

