







REFERENCE TITLE: regulatory boards; sunrise; draft
  legislation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2353









Introduced by
Representatives
  Carter, Brophy McGee: Fann





AN ACT

amending sections
32-3103 and 32-4401, arizona revised statutes; relating to professions and
occupations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-3103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3103.Regulation of health professions; legislation; criteria
A.Regulation shall not be imposed on any
unregulated health profession except for the exclusive purpose of protecting
the public interest.All
proposed legislation requests from applicant groups to regulate a health
profession for the first time or to increase the scope of practice of a health
profession shall include draft legislation language. All
proposed legislation to regulate a health profession for the first time shall
be reviewed according to the following criteria.A health profession
shall be regulated by this state only if:
1.Unregulated practice can clearly harm or endanger
the public health, safety or welfare and the potential for harm is easily
recognizable and not remote or dependent on tenuous argument.
2.The public needs and can reasonably be expected
to benefit from an assurance of initial and continuing professional ability.
3.The public cannot be effectively protected by
other means in a more cost beneficial
cost-beneficial manner.
B.After evaluating the criteria prescribed in
subsection A of this section and
considering governmental and societal costs and benefits, if the legislature finds
that it is necessary to regulate a health profession not previously regulated
by law, the least restrictive alternative method of regulation shall be
implemented, consistent with the public interest and the following:
1.If existing common law and statutory civil
actions and criminal prohibitions are not sufficient to eradicate existing
harm, the regulation shall provide for stricter civil actions and criminal
prohibitions.
2.If a service is being performed for individuals which that involves a hazard to the public health,
safety or welfare, the regulation shall impose inspection requirements and
enable an appropriate state agency to enforce violations by injunctive relief
in court.
3.If the threat to the public health, safety or
economic wellbeing is relatively small as a result of the operation of
the health profession, the regulation shall implement a system of registration.
4.If the consumer may have a substantial basis for
relying on the services of a practitioner, the regulation shall implement a
system of certification.
5.If it is apparent that adequate regulation cannot
be achieved by means other than licensing, the regulation shall implement a
system of licensing. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
32-4401, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-4401.Regulation of nonhealth professions and occupations;
legislation; criteria
A.A profession or occupation shall not be regulated
except for the exclusive purpose of protecting the public interest. Except as
provided in chapter 31 of this title,:
1.All
proposed legislation to regulate a profession or occupation for the first time
shall be reviewed according to the criteria prescribed in subsection B of this section.
2.All
proposed legislation requests from applicant groups to regulate a profession or
occupation for the first time shall include draft legislation language.
B.A profession or occupation shall be regulated by
this state only if all of the following apply:
1.An unregulated practice can clearly harm or
endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
2.The actual or anticipated public benefit of the
regulation clearly exceeds the costs imposed on consumers, businesses and
individuals.
3.The public needs and can reasonably be expected
to benefit from an assurance of initial and continuing professional ability.
4.The public cannot be effectively protected by
private certification or other alternatives.
C.After evaluating the criteria prescribed in
subsection B of this section,
the legislative committee of reference shall examine data from multiple sources
and look for evidence of actual harm to the public related to the industry
being considered for regulation. The evidence may include industry association
data, federal, state and local government data, business reports, complaints to
the respective state law enforcement or consumer affairs divisions or the
better business bureau and data from reciprocal agencies in other states with
and without similar laws and rules.
D.If the legislative committee of reference finds
that it is necessary to regulate a profession or occupation not previously
regulated by law, the regulation shall be in the least restrictive manner and
shall not be imposed to protect a discrete interest group from economic
competition.
E.The legislative committee of reference may hold
hearings to evaluate the criteria and examine the data and evidence prescribed
in subsections B and C of this section.
F.Notwithstanding any other law, an agency that
issues new professional or occupational licenses, registrations or certificates
shall not hinder the regulated industry through the delayed awarding of a
license, registration or certificate. END_STATUTE

