







REFERENCE TITLE: public school tax credit reallocation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2328









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Larkin: Espinoza, Hale, Rios





AN ACT

Amending title
15, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
15-237.02; amending section 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
the public schools income tax credit.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 2, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-237.02, to read:
START_STATUTE15-237.02.Public school needs fund; applications; selection
criteria; ranking; report
A.The
public school needs fund is established consisting of monies transferred
pursuant to section 43-1089.01, subsection F. The department of education
shall receive, hold, pay and manage the monies in the fund in trust for the
support of the programs and activities of public schools as provided by section
43-1089.01. On notice from the department, the state treasurer shall invest
and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned
from investments shall be credited to the fund. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated for the purposes of this section and are exempt from
the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. The
department may use not more than five percent of the monies in the fund each
fiscal year to pay the department's administrative expenses under this section.
B.The
department shall:
1.Develop
application forms and procedures and selection criteria for school districts
and charter schools to apply for distributions of monies from the fund.
2.Evaluate,
rate and numerically rank the applications based on:
(a)The
financial need of the school district or charter school.
(b)The
total amount of public school tax credit donations received from taxpayers by
the school district or charter school in the immediately preceding year.
(c)The
quality and merits of the request.
C.If the
amount of monies requested by school districts and charter schools under this
section exceeds the amount of monies available for distribution in the fund,
the department shall rank the applications according to the application
criteria and award monies to projects in ranked order until the monies are
exhausted.
D.Not later
than September 30 of each year, the department shall issue a report of the
monies it received and distributed pursuant to this section in the preceding
fiscal year, specifically including:
1.The
dollar amount of money paid into the fund during the year pursuant to section
43-1089.01, subsection F, paragraph 1.
2.The names
of all applicants and the names of applicants that submitted more than one
application during the year.
3.The total
number of applications received and the percentage of applications that were
funded during the year.
4.The
department's ranking of all applications.
5.For each
funded application, the name of the applicant, the purpose of the application
and the dollar amount paid to the applicant from the fund.
6.For each
unfunded application, the name of the applicant and the purpose of the
application.
7.The
dollar amount used from the fund to pay the department's administrative
expenses.
E.The
department shall submit a copy of the report compiled under subsection D of this
section to the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives and the secretary of state and provide a copy of the report,
on request, to any member of the public. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.01.Tax credit; public school fees and contributions;
definitions
A.A
credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of any
fees paid or cash
contributions made by a
taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G during the taxable year to a public school located in this state
for the support of fees paid for standardized
testing fees for college
credit or readiness offered by a widely recognized and accepted educational
testing organization, the career and technical education industry certification
assessment, or preparation courses and materials for standardized
testing, or contributions for the support of extracurricular
activities or character education programs of the public school, but not
exceeding:
1.Two Five hundred dollars for a single individual
or a head of household.
2.Three
hundred dollars in taxable year 2005 for a married couple filing a joint
return.
3.Four
hundred dollars in taxable year 2006 and
any subsequent through
taxable year 2016 for a
married couple filing a joint return.
4.One thousand dollars in taxable year 2017 and any
subsequent taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
B.A
husband and wife who file separate returns for a taxable year in which they
could have filed a joint return may each claim only onehalf of the tax
credit that would have been allowed for a joint return.
C.The
credit allowed by this section is in lieu of any deduction pursuant to section
170 of the internal revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
D.If
the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on
the claimant's income, or if there are no taxes due under this title, the
taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under
this title forward for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax
liability.
E.The
site council of the public school that receives contributions that are not
designated for a specific purpose shall determine how the contributions are
used at the school site. If a charter school does not have a site council, the
principal, director or chief administrator of the charter school shall
determine how the contributions that are not designated for a specific purpose
are used at the school site. If at the end of a fiscal year a public school
has unspent contributions that were previously designated for a specific
purpose or program and that purpose or program has been discontinued or has not
been used for two consecutive fiscal years, these contributions shall be
considered undesignated in the following fiscal year for the purposes of this subsection.
F.A public school that receives fees or cash
contributions that qualify for the credit under this section shall retain for
its designated purposes the first two hundred thousand dollars it receives each
year. Of any additional monies it receives each year, the public school shall:
1.Surrender and transfer twenty-five percent to
the public school needs fund established by section 15-237.02.
2.Retain for its designated purposes the
remainder of the monies.
F.G.A public school that receives
fees or a cash contribution pursuant to subsection A of this section shall
report to the department, in a form prescribed by the department, by February
28 of each year the following information:
1.The
total number of fee and cash contribution payments received during the previous
calendar year.
2.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions received during the previous
calendar year.
3.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions spent by the school during the
previous calendar year, categorized by specific standardized testing,
preparation courses and materials for standardized testing, extracurricular
activity or character education program.
G.H.For the purposes of this
section, a contribution for which a credit is claimed and that is made on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable
year may be applied to either the current or preceding taxable year and is
considered to have been made on the last day of that taxable year.
H.I.For the purposes of this
section:
1."Career
and technical education industry certification assessment" means an
assessment for career and technical preparation programs for pupils.
2."Character
education programs" means a program described in section 15719.
3."Extracurricular
activities" means schoolsponsored activities that require enrolled
students to pay a fee in order to participate, including fees for:
(a)Band
uniforms.
(b)Equipment
or uniforms for varsity athletic activities.
(c)Scientific
laboratory materials.
(d)Instate or
outofstate trips that are solely for competitive events.
Extracurricular activities do not include any senior trips or events that are
recreational, amusement or tourist activities.
4."Public
school" means a school that is part of a school district, a joint
technical education district or a charter school.
5."Standardized
testing for college credit or readiness" includes the SAT, PSAT, ACT,
advanced placement and international baccalaureate diploma tests and other
similar tests.
6."Widely
recognized and accepted educational testing organization" means the
college board, the ACT, the international baccalaureate and other organizations
that are widely recognized and accepted by colleges and universities in the
United States and that offer college credit and readiness examinations. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Effective date
This act is effective and applies to taxable years beginning
from and after December 31, 2016.

