








REFERENCE TITLE: constables; repeal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2339









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

amending sections
1215, 3730, 31374, 31721, 8201, 11251.02,
11403, 11424.01, 11445, 11454, 12302, 12862,
12885, 121181, 121218, 121223, 121302, 121314,
121526, 121528, 121574, 121585, 121598.04,
121642, 121809, 122406, 123301, 13105, 13813,
131204, 133602, 133804, 134140, 151808, 16322,
16535, 22101 and 22102, Arizona Revised Statutes;
repealing title 22, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 22244, 22281, 26204, 26209, 31143,
33725, 331481, 332145 and 35301, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending section 36501, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended
by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 99; amending section 36501, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195, section 19; amending
sections 361603, 37102, 38364, 38412 and 411823,
Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to constables.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 1-215, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE1-215.Definitions
In the statutes and laws of this state, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Action" includes any matter or
proceeding in a court, civil or criminal.
2."Adopted rule" means a final rule as
defined in section 411001.
3."Adult" means a person who has attained
eighteen years of age.
4."Alternative fuel" means:
(a)Electricity.
(b)Solar energy.
(c)Liquefied petroleum gas, natural gas, hydrogen
or a blend of hydrogen with liquefied petroleum or natural gas that complies
with any of the following:
(i)Is used in an engine that is certified to meet
at a minimum the United States environmental protection agency low emission
vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 88.10494
or 88.10594.
(ii)Is used in an engine that is certified by the
engine modifier to meet the addendum to memorandum 1A of the United
States environmental protection agency as printed in the federal register,
volume 62, number 207, October 27, 1997, pages 55635 through 55637.
(iii)Is used in an engine that is the subject of a
waiver for that specific engine application from the United States
environmental protection agency's memorandum 1A addendum requirements
and that waiver is documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the director of
the department of environmental quality.
(d)Only for vehicles that use alcohol fuels before
August 21, 1998, alcohol fuels that contain not less than eightyfive per
cent alcohol by volume.
(e)A combination of at least seventy per cent
alternative fuel and no more than thirty per cent petroleum based fuel that
operates in an engine that meets the United States environmental protection
agency low emission vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 88.10494 or 88.10594 and that is certified by the engine
manufacturer to consume at least seventy per cent alternative fuel during
normal vehicle operations.
5."Bribe" means anything of value or
advantage, present or prospective, asked, offered, given, accepted or promised
with a corrupt intent to influence, unlawfully, the person to whom it is given
in that person's action, vote or opinion, in any public or official capacity.
6."Child" or "children" as used
in reference to age of persons means persons under eighteen years of age.
7."Clean
burning fuel" means:
(a)An emulsion of
waterphased hydrocarbon fuel that contains not less than twenty per cent
water by volume and that complies with any of the following:
(i)Is used in an engine that is certified to meet
at a minimum the United States environmental protection agency low emission
vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 88.10494
or 88.10594.
(ii)Is used in an engine that is certified by the
engine modifier to meet the addendum to memorandum 1A of the United
States environmental protection agency as printed in the federal register,
volume 62, number 207, October 27, 1997, pages 55635 through 55637.
(iii)Is used in an engine that is the subject of a
waiver for that specific engine application from the United States
environmental protection agency's memorandum 1A addendum requirements
and that waiver is documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the director of
the department of environmental quality.
(b)A diesel fuel substitute that is produced from
nonpetroleum renewable resources if the qualifying volume of the nonpetroleum
renewable resources meets the standards for California diesel fuel as adopted
by the California air resources board pursuant to 13 California Code of
Regulations sections 2281 and 2282 in effect on January 1, 2000, the diesel
fuel substitute meets the registration requirement for fuels and additives
established by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to
section 211 of the clean air act as defined in section 49401.01 and the
use of the diesel fuel substitute complies with the requirements listed in 10
Code of Federal Regulations part 490, as printed in the federal register, volume
64, number 96, May 19, 1999.
(c)A diesel fuel that complies with all of the
following:
(i)Contains a maximum of fifteen parts per million
by weight of sulfur.
(ii)Meets ASTM D975.
(iii)Meets the registration requirements for fuels
and additives established by the United States environmental protection agency
pursuant to section 211 of the clean air act as defined in section 49401.01.
(iv)Is used in an engine that is equipped or has
been retrofitted with a device that has been certified by the California air
resources board diesel emission control strategy verification procedure, the
United States environmental protection agency voluntary diesel retrofit program
or the United States environmental protection agency verification protocol for
retrofit catalyst, particulate filter and engine modification control
technologies for highway and nonroad use diesel engines.
(d)A blend of unleaded gasoline that contains at
minimum eightyfive per cent ethanol by volume or eightyfive per
cent methanol by volume.
(e)Neat methanol.
(f)Neat ethanol.
8."Corruptly" means a wrongful design to
acquire or cause some pecuniary or other advantage to the person guilty of the
act or omission referred to, or to some other person.
9."Daytime" means the period between
sunrise and sunset.
10."Depose" includes every manner of
written statement under oath or affirmation.
11."Federal poverty guidelines" means the
poverty guidelines as updated annually in the federal register by the United
States department of health and human services.
12."Grantee" includes every person to
whom an estate or interest in real property passes, in or by a deed.
13."Grantor" includes every person from
or by whom an estate or interest in real property passes, in or by a deed.
14."Includes" or "including"
means not limited to and is not a term of exclusion.
15."Inhabitant" means a resident of a
city, town, village, district, county or precinct.
16."Issue" as used in connection with
descent of estates includes all lawful, lineal descendants of the ancestor.
17."Knowingly":
(a)Means only a knowledge that the facts exist that
bring the act or omission within the provisions of the statute using such
word.
(b)Does not require any knowledge of the
unlawfulness of the act or omission.
18."Magistrate" means an officer having
power to issue a warrant for the arrest of a person charged with a public
offense and includes the chief justice and justices of the supreme court,
judges of the superior court, judges of the court of appeals, justices of the
peace andjudges of a municipal court.
19."Majority" or "age of
majority" as used in reference to age of persons means the age of eighteen years of age or more.
20."Malice" and "maliciously"
mean a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or an intent to do a
wrongful act, established either by proof or presumption of law.
21."Minor" means a person under the age
of eighteen years.
22."Minor children" means persons under
the age of eighteen years.
23."Month" means a calendar month unless
otherwise expressed.
24."Neglect", "negligence",
"negligent" and "negligently" import a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequence of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concerns.
25."Nighttime" means the period between
sunset and sunrise.
26."Oath" includes an affirmation or
declaration.
27."Peace officers" means sheriffs of
counties, constables,
marshals, policemen of cities and towns, commissioned personnel of the
department of public safety, personnel who are employed by the state department
of corrections and the department of juvenile corrections and who have received
a certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards and training board,
peace officers who are appointed by a multicounty water conservation district
and who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards
and training board, police officers who are appointed by community college
district governing boards and who have received a certificate from the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board, police officers who are appointed
by the Arizona board of regents and who have received a certificate from the
Arizona peace officer standards and training board, police officers who are appointed
by the governing body of a public airport pursuant to section 288426 and
who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards and
training board and special agents from the office of the attorney general, or
of a county attorney, and who have received a certificate from the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board.
28."Person" includes a corporation,
company, partnership, firm, association or society, as well as a natural
person. When the word "person" is used to designate the party whose
property may be the subject of a criminal or public offense, the term includes
the United States, this state, or any territory, state or country, or any
political subdivision of this state that may lawfully own any property, or a
public or private corporation, or partnership or association. When the word
"person" is used to designate the violator or offender of any law, it
includes corporation, partnership or any association of persons.
29."Personal property" includes money,
goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of debt.
30."Population" means the population
according to the most recent United States decennial census.
31."Process" means a citation, writ or
summons issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
32."Property" includes both real and
personal property.
33."Real property" is coextensive with
lands, tenements and hereditaments.
34."Registered mail" includes certified
mail.
35."Seal" as used in reference to a paper
issuing from a court or public office to which the seal of such court or office
is required to be affixed means an impression of the seal on that paper, an
impression of the seal affixed to that paper by a wafer or wax, a stamped seal,
a printed seal, a screened seal or a computer generated seal.
36."Signature" or
"subscription" includes a mark, if a person cannot write, with the
person's name written near it and witnessed by a person who writes the person's
own name as witness.
37."State", as applied to the different
parts of the United States, includes the District of Columbia, this state and
the territories.
38."Testify" includes every manner of
oral statement under oath or affirmation.
39."United States" includes the District
of Columbia and the territories.
40."Vessel", as used in reference to
shipping, includes ships of all kinds, steamboats, steamships, barges, canal
boats and every structure adapted to navigation from place to place for the
transportation of persons or property.
41."Wilfully" means, with respect to
conduct or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an offense, that a
person is aware or believes that the person's conduct is of that nature or that
the circumstance exists.
42."Will" includes codicils.
43."Workers' compensation" means
workmen's compensation as used in article XVIII, section 8, Constitution of
Arizona.
44."Writ" means an order or precept in
writing issued in the name of the state or by a court or judicial officer.
45."Writing" includes printing. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-730, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-730.Nonconforming eggs as nuisance; procedure for handling and
abatement
A.Eggs or egg products prepared, packed, stored,
delivered for shipment, delivered for sale, loaded, shipped, transported or
sold in violation of this article, together with their cases,
cartonsor containers, are declared a public nuisance, and the eggs
or egg products shall be held by the person in possession and shall not be
moved from the place where held, except upon written permission or specified
direction of the director.
B.An inspector may affix a warning tag or notice to
the eggs or egg products and may give notice of the violation to the producer,
manufacturer, dealer, or owner or any person in
possession of the eggs or egg products. If the person, after notice, refuses
or fails within seventy-two hours to proceed with due diligence to recondition
or remark remark the eggs or egg products so as
to comply with this article, the eggs or egg products, and their cases,
cartonsor containers, may be seized by a law enforcement
officer.When the eggs or egg products are in cold storage the
seventy-two hour period does not commence to run until the eggs or egg products
are removed from storage and delivered to a dealer or producer.
C.The county attorney of the county in which the
nuisance exists, on the relation of the director, shall maintain in the name of
the state a civil action to abate and prevent the nuisance.If the
court finds a nuisance exists, the court shall order the eggs or egg products
condemned and destroyed in the manner directed by the court, or reconditioned, remarked remarked, denatured or otherwise processed,
or released upon such conditions as the court may prescribe to insure that the
nuisance will be abated.If the owner fails to comply with the order
of the court within the time specified, the court may order disposal of the
eggs or egg products, and their cases, cartons or containers, or the sale
thereof, under such conditions as the court may prescribe, by the director, or the sheriff or the constable.In the event the
court orders any of the eggs or egg products and their cases, cartons or containers
which can be salvaged to be sold, the cost of disposal shall be deducted from
the proceeds of the sale and the balance paid into court to be delivered to the
owner.
D.In actions arising under this section, the
superior court has original jurisdiction. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-1374, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1374.Setting time for hearing on ownership of seized stock; issuance
of summons
A.The clerk of the court or justice of the peace,
as the case may be, after filing and docketing the report of seizure shall
enter a brief statement of the seizure on the docket and set a time for hearing
evidence of the ownership of the livestock, which shall be not less than ten
and not more than twenty calendar days after the date the report is filed.
B.The clerk or justice of the peace shall issue a
summons directing all persons claiming all or part of the livestock to appear
at the time set and offer proof of ownership.
C.The summons:
1.Shall be addressed to those whom it may concern.
2.Shall be accompanied by a copy of the report.
3.Shall be delivered to and served by the livestock
officer who made the seizure or by a constable
or sheriff of the county.
4.Is returnable and shall be heard as in civil
actions. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 3-1721, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1721.Petition of seizure; notice of seizure; lien for expenses;
forced sale; disposition of proceeds; nonliability of state; neglect or cruel
treatment of equine; civil penalty; legal representation
A.Any person or peace officer who believes that an
equine is in poor physical condition because of neglect or cruel treatment may
petition on affidavit a justice of the peace of the precinct or a city
magistrate of the city in which the equine is found for an order authorizing
the department to take possession of and provide care for the equine for a
fifteenday period. The order shall not be issued unless the affidavit
provides that the livestock custody trust fund established by section 31377
has a balance that permits the department to provide such care or that the
department can demonstrate that the expenses have been contracted for pursuant
to subsection E of this section.The clerk of the court or justice
of the peace, as the case may be, after filing and docketing the petition,
shall enter a brief statement of the petition on the docket and set a time for
a hearing that is not less than five and not more than fifteen days after the
petition is filed.The order shall state the time and place of the
hearing.
B.On receiving the order the department shall take
possession of the equine. The department shall serve the order on the owner of
the equine, if known, at least twentyfour hours before the hearing,
either by personal service on the owner or by leaving a copy of the order with
a person of suitable discretion at the owner's residence or place of
business.If the owner is not known, the department shall give
notice by posting a copy of the order on the day of the seizure in a
conspicuous place at the location where the equine was seized and in at least
two public places in the county where the equine was seized.The
order shall be served by a livestock officer,constable or sheriff of the county.
C.If, at the hearing, it is determined that the
equine at the time of taking possession was not in poor physical condition
because of neglect or cruel treatment, the owner may immediately reclaim the
equine and shall not be liable for payment of any expense incurred in the
handling, feeding and care of the equine.Unless malice is proved,
no action taken by an employee of the department or by a peace officer pursuant
to this article shall be subject to civil or criminal liability.
D.On failure of the owner to be awarded immediate,
expensefree possession of the equine pursuant to subsection C of this
section, the department shall either sell the equine at public auction or, if
the equine's condition makes its sale impractical, dispose of the equine in the
most humane manner possible.The department shall deposit the proceeds
of the sale in the livestock custody trust fund established by section 31377
for distribution in the following priority:
1.The department shall be reimbursed for auction,
handling, feeding and caring expenses.
2.Any monies derived from the sale in excess of the
expenses to be paid pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be paid to the owner of the
equine. After thirty days if the owner has not claimed the money, this money
shall revert to the livestock custody trust fund established by section 31377.
E.The director may contract with any person or
group to handle, feed and care for any equine taken into custody pursuant to
this section.The state shall not be liable for injury or death of
any person or equine or damage to property caused by the performance of the
contract.
F.Notwithstanding any provision of this article to
the contrary, the county attorney of the county in which the equine was seized,
at any time prior to the expiration of fifteen days after the seizure of the
equine, may take charge of and keep the equine at the expense of the county
when the county attorney considers it to be of evidentiary value in any
criminal prosecution relating to the condition of the equine.
G.In addition to violating section 132910, a
person who subjects an equine to neglect or cruel treatment is subject to a
civil penalty of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars for each
violation.All civil penalties assessed pursuant to this subsection
shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the
state general fund.
H.The county attorney of the county, or the city
attorney of the city, in which the livestock is seized may represent the
livestock officer and the interests of this state in proceedings under this
section.
I.On receipt the department shall deposit all
monies, except civil penalties, collected pursuant to this section or received
as a money donation from any public or private group, society, association or
individual in the livestock custody trust fund established by section 31377.The
monies in the fund shall be used to reimburse the department for expenses
incurred in the handling, feeding, care and auctioning of equines seized
pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 8-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-201.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Abandoned" means the failure of the
parent to provide reasonable support and to maintain regular contact with the
child, including providing normal supervision. Abandoned includes a judicial
finding that a parent has made only minimal efforts to support and communicate
with the child.Failure to maintain a normal parental relationship
with the child without just cause for a period of six months constitutes prima
facie evidence of abandonment.
2."Abuse" means the infliction or
allowing of physical injury, impairment of bodily function or disfigurement or
the infliction of or allowing another person to cause serious emotional damage
as evidenced by severe anxiety, depression, withdrawal or untoward aggressive
behavior and which emotional damage is diagnosed by a medical doctor or
psychologist and is caused by the acts or omissions of an individual who has
the care, custody and control of a child.Abuse includes:
(a)Inflicting or allowing sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child
pursuant to section 131410, commercial sexual exploitation of a minor
pursuant to section 133552, sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to
section 133553, incest pursuant to section 133608 or child
prostitution pursuant to section 133212.
(b)Physical injury that results from permitting a
child to enter or remain in any structure or vehicle in which volatile, toxic
or flammable chemicals are found or equipment is possessed by any person for
the purpose of manufacturing a dangerous drug as defined in section 133401.
(c)Unreasonable confinement of a child.
3."Adult" means a person who is eighteen
years of age or older.
4."Adult court" means the appropriate
justice court, municipal court or criminal division of the superior court that
has jurisdiction to hear proceedings concerning offenses committed by juveniles
as provided in sections 8327 and 13501.
5."Award"
or "commit" means to assign legal custody.
6."Child", "youth" or
"juvenile" means an individual who is under the age of eighteen
years.
7."Complaint" means a written statement
of the essential facts constituting a public offense that is any of the
following:
(a)Made on an oath before a judge or commissioner
of the superior court or an authorized juvenile hearing officer.
(b)Made pursuant to section 133903.
(c)Accompanied by an affidavit of a law enforcement
officer or employee that swears on information and belief to the accuracy of
the complaint pursuant to section 134261.
8."Criminal conduct allegation" means an
allegation of conduct by a parent, guardian or custodian of a child or an adult
member of the victim's household that, if true, would constitute any of the
following:
(a)A violation of section 133623 involving
child abuse.
(b)A felony offense that constitutes domestic
violence as defined in section 133601.
(c)A violation of section 131404 or 131406
involving a minor.
(d)A violation of section 131405, 131410
or 131417.
(e)Any other act of abuse that is classified as a
felony.
(f)An offense that constitutes domestic violence as
defined in section 133601 and that involves a minor who is a victim of
or was in imminent danger during the domestic violence.
9."Custodian" means a person, other than
a parent or legal guardian, who stands in loco parentis to the child or a
person to whom legal custody of the child has been given by order of the
juvenile court.
10."Delinquency hearing" means a
proceeding in the juvenile court to determine whether a juvenile has committed
a specific delinquent act as set forth in a petition.
11."Delinquent act" means an act by a
juvenile that if committed by an adult would be a criminal offense or a petty
offense, a violation of any law of this state, or of another state if the act
occurred in that state, or a law of the United States, or a violation of any
law that can only be violated by a minor and that has been designated as a
delinquent offense, or any ordinance of a city, county or political subdivision
of this state defining crime.Delinquent act does not include an
offense under section 13501, subsection A or B if the offense is filed
in adult court.Any juvenile who is prosecuted as an adult or who is
remanded for prosecution as an adult shall not be adjudicated as a delinquent
juvenile for the same offense.
12."Delinquent juvenile" means a child
who is adjudicated to have committed a delinquent act.
13."Department" means the department of
child safety.
14."Dependent
child":
(a)Means a child who
is adjudicated to be:
(i)In need of proper and effective parental care
and control and who has no parent or guardian, or one who has no parent or
guardian willing to exercise or capable of exercising such care and control.
(ii)Destitute or who is not provided with the
necessities of life, including adequate food, clothing, shelter or medical
care.
(iii)A child whose home is unfit by reason of
abuse, neglect, cruelty or depravity by a parent, a guardian or any other
person having custody or care of the child.
(iv)Under eight years of age and who is found to
have committed an act that would result in adjudication as a delinquent
juvenile or incorrigible child if committed by an older juvenile or child.
(v)Incompetent or not restorable to competency and
who is alleged to have committed a serious offense as defined in section 13706.
(b)Does not include a child who in good faith is
being furnished Christian Science treatment by a duly accredited practitioner
if none of the circumstances described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph
exists.
15."Detention" means the temporary
confinement of a juvenile who requires secure care in a physically restricting
facility that is completely surrounded by a locked and physically secure
barrier with restricted ingress and egress for the protection of the juvenile
or the community pending court disposition or as a condition of probation.
16."Director" means the director of the
department.
17."Health professional" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 323201.
18."Incorrigible child" means a child
who:
(a)Is adjudicated as a child who refuses to obey
the reasonable and proper orders or directions of a parent, guardian or
custodian and who is beyond the control of that person.
(b)Is habitually truant from school as defined in
section 15803, subsection C.
(c)Is a runaway from the child's home or parent,
guardian or custodian.
(d)Habitually behaves in such a manner as to injure
or endanger the morals or health of self or others.
(e)Commits any act constituting an offense that can
only be committed by a minor and that is not designated as a delinquent act.
(f)Fails to obey any lawful order of a court of
competent jurisdiction given in a noncriminal action.
19."Independent living program" includes
a residential program with supervision of less than twentyfour hours a
day.
20."Juvenile court" means the juvenile
division of the superior court when exercising its jurisdiction over children
in any proceeding relating to delinquency, dependency or incorrigibility.
21."Law enforcement officer" means a
peace officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff, or municipal police officer or constable.
22."Medical director of a mental health
agency" means a psychiatrist, or licensed physician experienced in
psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by the governing body of the
agency as the person in charge of the medical services of the agency, or a
psychiatrist designated by the governing body to act for the
director.The term includes the superintendent of the state
hospital.
23."Mental health agency" means any
private or public facility that is licensed by this state as a mental health
treatment agency, a psychiatric hospital, a psychiatric unit of a general
hospital or a residential treatment center for emotionally disturbed children and
that uses secure settings or mechanical restraints.
24."Neglect" or "neglected"
means:
(a)The inability or unwillingness of a parent,
guardian or custodian of a child to provide that child with supervision, food,
clothing, shelter or medical care if that inability or unwillingness causes
unreasonable risk of harm to the child's health or welfare, except if the
inability of a parent, guardian or custodian to provide services to meet the
needs of a child with a disability or chronic illness is solely the result of
the unavailability of reasonable services.
(b)Permitting a child to enter or remain in any
structure or vehicle in which volatile, toxic or flammable chemicals are found
or equipment is possessed by any person for the purposes of manufacturing a dangerous
drug as defined in section 13-3401.
(c)A determination by a health professional that a
newborn infant was exposed prenatally to a drug or substance listed in section
13-3401 and that this exposure was not the result of a medical treatment
administered to the mother or the newborn infant by a health professional.
This subdivision does not expand a health professional's duty to report neglect
based on prenatal exposure to a drug or substance listed in section 133401
beyond the requirements prescribed pursuant to section 133620,
subsection E. The determination by the health professional shall be based on
one or more of the following:
(i)Clinical indicators in the prenatal period
including maternal and newborn presentation.
(ii)History of substance use or abuse.
(iii)Medical history.
(iv)Results of a toxicology or other laboratory
test on the mother or the newborn infant.
(d)Diagnosis by a health professional of an infant
under one year of age with clinical findings consistent with fetal alcohol
syndrome or fetal alcohol effects.
(e)Deliberate
exposure of a child by a parent, guardian or custodian to sexual conduct as
defined in section 133551 or to sexual contact, oral sexual contact or
sexual intercourse as defined in section 13-1401, bestiality as prescribed in
section 131411 or explicit sexual materials as defined in section
13-3507.
(f)Any of the following acts committed by the
child's parent, guardian or custodian with reckless disregard as to whether the
child is physically present:
(i)Sexual contact as defined in section 131401.
(ii)Oral sexual contact as defined in section 131401.
(iii)Sexual intercourse as defined in section 131401.
(iv)Bestiality as prescribed in section 131411.
25."Newborn infant" means a child who is
under thirty days of age.
26."Petition" means a written statement
of the essential facts that allege delinquency, incorrigibility or dependency.
27."Prevention" means the creation of
conditions, opportunities and experiences that encourage and develop healthy,
selfsufficient children and that occur before the onset of problems.
28."Protective supervision" means
supervision that is ordered by the juvenile court of children who are found to
be dependent or incorrigible.
29."Referral" means a report that is
submitted to the juvenile court and that alleges that a child is dependent or
incorrigible or that a juvenile has committed a delinquent or criminal act.
30."Report for investigation" means a
report prepared pursuant to section 8455, subsection D.
31."Secure care" means confinement in a
facility that is completely surrounded by a locked and physically secure
barrier with restricted ingress and egress.
32."Serious emotional injury" means an
injury that is diagnosed by a medical doctor or a psychologist and that does
any one or a combination of the following:
(a)Seriously impairs mental faculties.
(b)Causes serious anxiety, depression, withdrawal
or social dysfunction behavior to the extent that the child suffers dysfunction
that requires treatment.
(c)Is the result of sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child
pursuant to section 131410, child prostitution pursuant to section 133212,
commercial sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133552,
sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133553 or incest
pursuant to section 133608.
33."Serious physical injury" means an
injury that is diagnosed by a medical doctor and that does any one or a
combination of the following:
(a)Creates a reasonable risk of death.
(b)Causes serious or permanent disfigurement.
(c)Causes significant physical pain.
(d)Causes serious impairment of health.
(e)Causes the loss or protracted impairment of an
organ or limb.
(f)Is the result of sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child pursuant
to section 131410, child prostitution pursuant to section 133212,
commercial sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133552,
sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133553 or incest
pursuant to section 133608.
34."Shelter care" means the temporary
care of a child in any public or private facility or home that is licensed by
this state and that offers a physically nonsecure environment that is
characterized by the absence of physically restricting construction or hardware
and that provides the child access to the surrounding community. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 11-251.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-251.02.Additional powers of the board
The board of supervisors may:
1.Authorize the use of county personnel,
facilities, equipment, supplies and other resources in search or rescue
operations involving the life or health of any person.
2.Contract for the acquisition, rental or hire of
equipment, services, services supervision, supplies and other resources for use
in such search or rescue operations.
3.Contract with an ambulance service provider that
has a certificate of necessity issued pursuant to title 36, chapter 21.1,
article 2 to provide ambulance service in the rural or wilderness service areas
in counties with a population of less than five hundred thousand persons.
4.Contract
with a government agency to provide the services of the constable at fees that
are less than those established by section 11445, except for those
services that are specifically authorized by law to be performed by the
sheriff.END_STATUTE 
Sec.7.Section 11-403, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-403.Practice of law prohibited to certain officers; exceptions
A.The sheriff and constable and their the sheriff's deputies are
prohibited from practicing law, or forming a partnership with an attorneyatlaw.
B.In a county of the first class having a population of sixty thousand or
over, as determined by the official census of the United States, the county
attorney or his deputies shall not engage in the private practice of law,
except:
1.With consent of the board of supervisors, a
special deputy county attorney may be appointed upon a fee basis in like manner
as a special assistant attorney general.
2.Deputy county attorneys may, but in no
circumstances shall be required to, represent private clients in pro bono,
private civil matters under the following circumstances:
(a)The representation will be conducted exclusively
during off hours or while on leave and the attorney will not receive any
compensation for such services.
(b)The client is not seeking an award of attorney
fees for the services.
(c)The services are for an individual in need of
personal legal services who does not have the financial resources to pay for
the professional services or for a nonprofit, tax exempt charitable
organization formed for the purpose of providing social services to individuals
and families.
(d)The representation will not interfere with the
performance of any official duties.
(e)The subject matter of pro bono representation is
outside of the area of practice to which the attorney is assigned in the county
attorney's office and the activity will not appear to create a conflict of
interest.
(f)The activity will not reflect adversely on this
state, the county or any of their agencies.
(g)The deputy county attorney's position will not
influence or appear to influence the outcome of any matter.
(h)The activity will not involve assertions that
are contrary to the interest or position of this state, the county or any of
their agencies.
(i)The activity does not involve a criminal matter
or proceeding or any matter in which this state or the county is a party or has
a direct or substantial interest.
(j)The activity will not utilize resources that
will result in a cost to this state, the county or any of their agencies.
(k)The attorney's supervisor may require the
attorney to submit a prior written request to engage in pro bono work which
includes a provision holding the agency harmless from any of the work undertaken
by the attorney.
C.Notwithstanding
any provision of law or rule to the contrary, representation by an attorney of
a pro bono client under subsection B,
paragraph 2 of this section shall not disqualify the office from
subsequently participating in any action affecting the client. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 11-424.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-424.01.Salaries of precinct officers other than justices of the
peace
A.At
the regular June meeting of the several boards of supervisors preceding a
general election, the boards shall fix the salaries of all precinct officers,
other than justices of the peace, for those officers to be elected for the fouryear
period commencing on the first day of the following January.
B.In
precincts with an average of one hundred or fewer total documents served per
year by a constable over the previous four years, a constable is entitled to receive
an annual salary of not more than sixteen thousand five hundred dollars.
C.In
precincts with an average of more than one hundred total documents served per
year by a constable over the previous four years, the constables shall be paid
as follows:
1.In
precincts with five thousand or fewer registered voters, the constables shall
receive annual salaries of not more than sixteen thousand five hundred dollars.
2.In
precincts with more than five thousand registered voters but fewer than ten
thousand registered voters, annual salaries of not more than twenty-six
thousand dollars.
3.In
precincts with ten thousand or more registered voters but fewer than twelve
thousand registered voters, annual salaries of not less than twentynine
thousand four hundred thirtyseven nor more than forty thousand dollars.
4.In
precincts with twelve thousand or more registered voters but fewer than sixteen
thousand registered voters, annual salaries of not less than thirtysix
thousand one hundred nor more than fifty thousand dollars.
5.In
precincts with sixteen thousand or more registered voters, annual salaries of
not less than fortyeight thousand two hundred ninetyfour nor more
than sixty-seven thousand dollars.
D.The board
of supervisors shall determine, subject to subsections B and C of this section,
the salary of a constable appointed to fill a vacancy caused otherwise than by
expiration of the term.Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed
to authorize an increase or decrease in the salary during the term of office of
a constable appointed to fill a vacancy.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "registered voter" means a qualified
elector of a precinct who is registered on June 1 of each year.END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 11-445, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-445.Fees chargeable in civil actions by sheriffs 
A.The sheriff shall receive the following fees in
civil actions:
1.For serving each true copy of the original
summons in a civil suit, sixteen dollars, except that the sheriff shall not
charge a fee for service of any document pursuant to section 133602 or
any injunction against harassment pursuant to section 121809 if the court
indicates the injunction arises out of a dating relationship.
2.For summoning each witness, sixteen dollars.
3.For levying and returning each writ of attachment
or claim and delivery, fortyeight dollars.
4.For taking and approving each bond and returning
it to the proper court when necessary, twelve dollars.
5.For endorsing the forfeiture of any bond required
to be endorsed by the sheriff, twelve dollars.
6.For levying each execution, twentyfour
dollars.
7.For returning each execution, sixteen dollars.
8.For executing and returning each writ of
possession or restitution, fortyeight dollars plus a rate of forty
dollars per hour per deputy or constable
for the actual time spent in excess of three hours.
9.For posting the advertisement for sale under
execution, or any order of sale, twelve dollars.
10.For posting or serving any notice, process,
writ, order, pleading or paper required or permitted by law, not otherwise
provided for, sixteen dollars except that posting for a writ of restitution
shall not exceed ten dollars.
11.For executing a deed to each purchaser of real
property under execution or order of sale, twentyfour dollars.
12.For executing a bill of sale to each purchaser
of real and personal property under an execution or order of sale, when
demanded by the purchaser, sixteen dollars.
13.For services in designating a homestead or other
exempt property, twelve dollars.
14.For receiving and paying money on redemption and
issuing a certificate of redemption, twentyfour dollars.
15.For serving and returning each writ of
garnishment and related papers, forty dollars.
16.For the preparation, including notarization, of
each affidavit of service or other document pertaining to service, eight
dollars.
17.For every
writ served on behalf of a justice of the peace, a fee established by the board
of supervisors not to exceed five dollars per writ. Monies collected from the
writ fees shall be deposited in the constable ethics standards and training
fund established by section 22138.
B.The sheriff shall also collect the appropriate
recording fees if applicable and other appropriate disbursements.
C.The sheriff may charge:
1.Fiftysix dollars plus disbursements for
any skip tracing services performed.
2.A reasonable fee for executing a civil arrest
warrant ordered pursuant to court rule by a judge or justice of the peace. The
fee shall only be charged to the party requesting the issuance of the civil
arrest warrant.
3.A reasonable fee for storing personal property
levied on pursuant to title 12, chapter 9.
D.For traveling to serve or on each attempt to
serve civil process, writs, orders, pleadings or papers, the sheriff shall
receive two dollars forty cents for each mile actually and necessarily traveled
but not to exceed two hundred miles, nor to be less than sixteen dollars.
Mileage shall be charged one way only. For service made or attempted at the
same time and place, regardless of the number of parties or the number of
papers so served or attempted, only one charge for travel fees shall be made
for such service or attempted service.
E.For collecting money on an execution when it is
made by sale, the sheriff and the
constable shall receive eight dollars for each one hundred
dollars or major portion thereof not to exceed a total of two thousand dollars,
but when money is collected by the sheriff without a sale, only onehalf
of such fee shall be allowed.When satisfaction or partial
satisfaction of a judgment is received by the judgment creditor after the
sheriff or constable has
received an execution on the judgment, the commission is due the sheriff or constable and is established
by an affidavit of the judgment creditor filed with the officer.If
the affidavit is not lodged with the officer within thirty days of the request,
the commission shall be based on the total amount of judgment due as billed by
the officer and may be collected as any other debt by that officer.
F.The sheriff shall be allowed for all process
issued from the supreme court and served by the sheriff the same fees as are
allowed the sheriff for similar services on process issued from the superior
court.
G.The
constable shall receive the same fees as the sheriff for performing the same
services in civil actions, except that mileage shall be computed from the
office of the justice of the peace originating the civil action to the place of
service.
H.Notwithstanding
subsection G of this section, in a county with a population of more than three
million persons, if an office of a justice of the peace is located outside of
the precinct boundaries, the mileage for a constable shall be calculated
pursuant to subsection D of this section, except that the distance between the
precinct boundaries and the office of the justice of the peace, as determined
by the county and certified by the board of supervisors of that county, shall
be subtracted from the mileage calculation. This certified mileage calculation
shall be transmitted to the justice courts and the clerks of those courts shall
calculate the mileage between the office of the justice of the peace and the
location where the civil process, writ, order, pleading or paper was served and
reduce the mileage used to calculate the mileage fee according to the certified
mileage calculation for that respective jurisdiction.
I.Constables
shall maintain a log of work related activities, including a listing of all
processes served and the number of processes attempted to be served by case
number, the names of the plaintiffs and defendants, the names and addresses of
the persons to be served except as otherwise precluded by law, the date of
process and the daily mileage.
J.The log
maintained in subsection I of this section is a public record and shall be made
available by the constable at the constable's office during regular office
hours. Copies of the log shall be filed monthly with the clerk of the justice
court and with the clerk of the board of supervisors. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
11-454, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-454.Service on sheriff
Service of a paper, other than process, upon on
the sheriff may be made by delivering it to him or to one of his
deputies, or to a person in charge of the office during office
hours.When If the sheriff is a party to an
action or proceeding, the process and orders therein, which it would otherwise
be the duty of the sheriff to execute, shall be executed by a constable, or a person appointed by the court. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 12-302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-302.Extension of time for payment of fees and costs; relief
from default for nonpayment; deferral or waiver of court fees and costs;
definitions
A.The court or any judge may for good cause shown
extend the time for paying any court fees and costs required by law or may
relieve against a default caused by nonpayment of a fee within the time
provided by law, but no fees paid shall be refunded.
B.The supreme court shall adopt forms and
procedures for deferral or waiver of court fees and costs.
C.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the court shall grant an application for deferral of court fees and
costs if the applicant establishes by affidavit, including supporting
documentation, that the applicant either:
1.Is receiving benefits pursuant to one or more of
the following programs:
(a)The temporary assistance for needy families
program established by section 403 of title 4 of the social security act as it
exists after August21, 1996.
(b)The food stamp program (7 United States Code
sections 2011 through 2029).
2.Is receiving benefits pursuant to the
supplemental security income program (42 United States Code sections 1381
through 1385).
3.Has an income that is insufficient or barely
sufficient to meet the daily essentials of life and that includes no allotment
that could be budgeted for the fees and costs that are required to gain access
to the court. In considering insufficient income pursuant to this paragraph,
the court may consider the following as evidence of insufficient income:
(a)The applicant has a gross income that as
computed on a monthly basis is one hundred fifty percent or less of the current
poverty level established by the United States department of health and human
services. Gross monthly income includes the applicant's share of community
property income.
(b)The applicant's income is considered to be
sufficient, but the applicant provides proof of extraordinary expenses,
including medical expenses, costs of care for elderly family members or family
members with disabilities or other expenses that are deemed extraordinary, that
reduce the applicant's gross monthly income to at or below one hundred fifty
percent of the current poverty level established by the United States
department of health and human services.
D.On proof that the applicant is permanently unable
to pay fees or costs, the court shall waive them. For the purposes of this
subsection, "permanently unable to pay" means the applicant's income
and liquid assets are insufficient or barely sufficient to meet the daily
essentials of life and the income and liquid assets are unlikely to change in
the foreseeable future.
E.Except in cases of dissolution of marriage, legal
separation, annulment or establishment, enforcement or modification of child
support, and notwithstanding subsection A of this section or chapter 9, article
4 of this title, if the applicant is an inmate who is confined to a
correctional facility operated by the state department of corrections and who
initiates a civil action or proceeding, the inmate is responsible for the full
payment of actual court fees and costs.On filing the civil action
or proceeding, the clerk of the court shall assess and, when monies exist,
collect as a partial payment of any court fees and costs required by law a
first time payment of twenty percent.Thereafter the state
department of corrections shall withhold twenty percent of all deposits into
the prisoner's spendable account administered by the department until the
actual court fees and costs are collected in full.The state
department of corrections shall annually forward any monies withheld to the
clerk of the court of each court of jurisdiction before January
31.If a prisoner is released before the full fees and costs are
collected, the state department of corrections shall forward the amount of fees
and costs collected through the date of the prisoner's release.The
clerk of the court of each court of jurisdiction is responsible for sending the
state department of corrections a copy of the order mandating the amount of
fees and costs to be paid.This subsection does not prohibit an
applicant from filing a civil action or proceeding if the applicant is unable
to pay the filing fees.
F.At the time an applicant signs and submits the
application for deferral to the court, the applicant shall acknowledge under
oath and sign a consent to judgment.By signing the consent to
judgment, the applicant consents to judgment being entered against the
applicant for all fees and costs that are deferred but that remain unpaid after
thirty calendar days following the entry of final judgment or
order.A consent judgment may be entered against the applicant
unless one of the following applies:
1.The applicant has an established schedule of
payment in effect and is current with payments.
2.A supplemental application for further deferral
or waiver has been filed and is pending.
3.In response to a supplemental application, the
court orders that the fees and costs be further deferred or waived.
4.Within twenty days of the date the court denies
the supplemental application, the applicant either pays the fees or requests a
hearing on the court's final order denying further deferral or waiver. If the
applicant requests a hearing, the court shall not enter a consent judgment
unless a hearing is held, further deferral or waiver is denied and payment has
not been made within the time prescribed by the court.
G.An applicant who is granted a deferral or waiver
or a party to the action who knows of any change in the financial circumstances
of the applicant shall promptly notify the court of the change in the
applicant's financial circumstances during the pendency of the action that
affects the applicant's ability to pay court fees and costs.If
within ten days after notice and a hearing the court determines that the applicant's
financial circumstances have changed and that the applicant no longer meets the
eligibility requirements of this section, the court shall order the applicant
to pay the deferred or waived fees and costs.
H.The following court fees and costs may be
deferred or waived, except that the county shall pay the fees and costs in
paragraphs 6 and 7 of this subsection on the granting of an application for
deferral or waiver and an applicant who has been granted a deferral shall
reimburse the county for the fees and costs in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this
subsection:
1.Filing fees.
2.Fees for issuance of either a summons or
subpoena.
3.Fees for obtaining one certified copy of a
temporary order in a domestic relations case.
4.Fees for obtaining one certified copy of a final
order, judgment or decree in all civil proceedings.
5.Sheriff, marshal, constable and law enforcement fees for
service of process if any of the following applies:
(a)The applicant established by affidavit that the
applicant has attempted without success to obtain voluntary acceptance of
service of process.
(b)The applicant's attempt to obtain voluntary
acceptance of service of process would be futile or dangerous.
(c)An order of protection or an injunction against
harassment in favor of the applicant and against the party sought to be served
exists and is enforceable.
6.The fee for service by publication if service is
required by law and if the applicant establishes by affidavit specific facts to
show that the applicant has exercised due diligence in attempting to locate the
person to be served and has been unable to do so.
7.Court reporter's fees for the preparation of
court transcripts if the court reporter is employed by the court.
8.Appeal preparation and filing fees at all levels
of appeal and photocopy fees for the preparation of the record on appeal
pursuant to sections 12119.01, 12120.31 and 122107 and
section 12284, subsection A.
I.If the case is appealed, the initial deferral or
waiver remains in effect unless there is a change in the applicant's financial
circumstances. If a case is appealed an applicant may be required to submit to
the appellate court a new application for a deferral or waiver of the court
fees and costs.
J.If a judgment is rendered for court fees and
costs, the court fees and costs deferred but unpaid and the expenses paid by
the county under this section shall be included in the judgment and shall be
paid directly to the clerk of the court by the party against whom the court
fees and costs were assessed.
K.A waiver of court fees or costs shall not be
granted for:
1.Matters that are filed as class actions pursuant
to rule 23 of the Arizona rules of civil procedure.
2.Civil actions other than cases of dissolution of
marriage, legal separation, annulment or establishment, enforcement or
modification of child support that are filed by persons who at the time of
filing the application are incarcerated as a result of a felony conviction in
an outofstate correctional facility or in a jail waiting to be
transported to a state department of corrections facility.
3.Civil actions other than cases of dissolution of
marriage, legal separation, annulment or establishment, enforcement or
modification of child support that are filed
by a pro se litigant who has been previously declared a vexatious litigant by
any court.
L.This section does not limit the court's
discretion in deferring, waiving or ordering the county to pay any fees and
costs as may be necessary and appropriate.
M.If an applicant who is granted a deferral or
waiver is found to be a vexatious litigant by any court during the pendency of
the action, the court shall order the applicant to pay the deferred or waived
fees and costs.
N.For the purposes of this section:
1."Deferral" means either postponement of
an obligation to pay fees or establishment of a schedule for payment of fees.
2."Further deferral" means the
establishment of a schedule for payment of fees. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 12-862, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-862.Order to show cause; service; return; attachment of person
or sequestration of property
A.When it appears to the superior court by the
return of a proper officer on lawful process, or upon on
affidavit of some credible person, or by information filed by the
county attorney, that there is reasonable ground to believe that a person is
guilty of the disobedience described in section 12861, the court may
order the person so charged to show cause at the time and place the court
directs why he should not be punished for such disobedience.
B.The order, with a copy of the affidavit or
information, shall be served upon
on the person charged
within sufficient time to enable him to prepare and make return to the order,
and if by the return the alleged contempt is not purged, a trial shall be
directed at a time fixed by the court.
C.If the person allegedly in contempt fails or
refuses to make return to the order, a warrant of arrest may issue directing
the sheriff or any constable
of the county where the person charged resides or may be found, to arrest him
and bring him before the court at a time and place directed by the court, and such
person may be required to give bail for his attendance at the trial and his
submission to final judgment of the court.
D.If the accused
is a corporation, an attachment for sequestration of its property may be issued
upon on refusal or failure to answer. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 12-885, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-885.Seizure and sale of escheated property; disposal of proceeds;
exception
A.A writ shall be issued to the sheriff or a constable of the county
where the property is situated, commanding the sheriff or constable to seize the property vested in
the state.
B.Except for personal property transferred to the
Arizona state library, archives and public records under section 41151.21,
the officer shall dispose of the property at public auction in the manner
provided by law for sale of property under execution. The proceeds of the sale
shall be paid to the department of revenue and deposited, pursuant to sections
35146 and 35147, into a clearing account from which payment of
claims for the proceeds may be made. The proceeds shall remain in the clearing
account for twelve months and then shall be credited to the permanent state
school fund.
C.The director of the department of revenue shall
keep accounts and records of all such proceeds paid into the clearing account
and of all such lands vested in the state. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 12-1181, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1181.Trial and judgment on appeal; writ of restitution
A.On trial of the action in the superior court,
appellee, if out of possession and the right of possession is adjudged to him,
shall be entitled to damages for withholding possession of the premises during
pendency of the appeal and the court shall also render judgment in favor of
appellee and against appellant and the sureties on his bond for damages proved
and costs.
B.The writ of restitution or execution shall be
issued by the clerk of the superior court and shall be executed by the sheriff or constable as in other actions.
END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 12-1218, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1218.Report of commissioners when property incapable of fair
division; sale; distribution of proceeds
A.If the commissioners are of the opinion that fair
and equitable division of the property or any part thereof cannot be made, they
shall report such opinion to the court, stating their reasons therefor, and if
the court approves such report, it shall order a sale of the property which is
incapable of partition.
B.If on the trial of the action, it appears to the
court that fair partition of the property cannot be made without depreciating
the value thereof, or that for any reason a sale is more beneficial to the
parties or any of them, it shall in the first instance, enter a judgment
directing that the real property be sold.
C.The court shall appoint a commissioner to make
the sale provided by subsection B and return the proceeds into court to be divided
between the persons entitled thereto according to their respective interests.
Such commissioner shall sell the real property in the time and manner, and
after notice, as directed by the court.
D.The purchaser shall, on production of his deed,
be entitled to a writ of assistance to be issued by the clerk, commanding the
sheriff or a constable of
the county to put him in possession. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 12-1223, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1223.Writ of possession or sale of personal property
A.When a partition in kind of personal property is
ordered, a writ shall be issued in accordance with the judgment, commanding the
sheriff or a constable of
the county where the property is located to put the parties forthwith in
possession of the property allotted.
B.When the property will not admit of an equitable
partition, the court shall ascertain the proportion to which each owner is
entitled and shall order that the property be sold.An execution
shall be issued to the sheriff or
constable of the county where the property is located, describing
the property and commanding the officer to sell it as in cases of execution and
pay over the proceeds of sale to the parties entitled thereto in the proportion
ascertained by judgment of the court. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 12-1302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1302.Order for taking property
After the provisions of chapter 14 of this title are complied
with and upon filing of the affidavit prescribed in section 121301, the
superior court judge or justice of the peace shall make an order requiring the
sheriff, or if in a justice court the
constable, to take the property specified in the affidavit from
the defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 12-1314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1314.Execution issuable for delivery of property; procedure
A.An execution may issue for the delivery of
personal property to the sheriff or any
constable of the county where the property is located and shall
require him to deliver possession of the property, sufficiently describing it,
to the party entitled thereto.
B.The execution shall be governed by the rules
governing execution in ordinary cases so far as they are applicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 12-1526, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1526.Issuance of writ; contents
After compliance with the provisions of chapter 14 of this
title and upon the execution and filing of the affidavit and bond, the superior
court judge or justice of the peace shall immediately issue a writ of
attachment directed to the sheriff or any
constable of any county where property of defendant is supposed
to be, commanding him to attach so much of the property as will be sufficient
to satisfy the demand of plaintiff and the probable costs of the action. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 12-1528, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1528.Issuance of writ to several counties; form of writ;
delivery for service
A.Several writs of attachment may, at the option of
plaintiff, be issued at the same time or in succession and sent to different
counties until sufficient property is attached to satisfy the writ.
B.The writ may be in the following form:
"The State of Arizona.
"To
the sheriff or any constable
of ___________ county, greeting:
"We
command that you attach forthwith so much property of C. D., if to be found in
your county, as is of value sufficient to make the sum of _____________
dollars, and the probable costs of the action, to satisfy the demand of A. B.,
and that you keep and secure in your hands the property so attached, unless
replevied, so that such property may be liable to further proceedings thereon,
to be had before the court, and that you make return of this writ showing how
you have executed it."
C.The writ shall be dated and attested as other
writs, and may be delivered by the issuing officer to the sheriff or a constable, or he may deliver
it to the plaintiff for that purpose. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 12-1574, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1574.Issuance, service and return of writ; notice to debtor
A.When the judgment creditor has complied with the
applicable provisions of sections 121572 and 121573, the clerk,
justice of the peace or city or town magistrate shall issue a writ of
garnishment of monies or property and a summons directed to the sheriff, constable or any officer
authorized by law to serve process in the county where the garnishee is alleged
to be, commanding him to immediately summon the garnishee to appear before the
court out of which the writ issued within the time specified in the writ to answer
the writ.
B.The writ shall state:
1.The amount of the outstanding balance due on the
judgment, including accrued interest and allowable costs, as of the date of the
issuance of the writ, and the rate at which interest accrues on that judgment.
2.The name and address of the garnishee or his
authorized agent.
3.The name and address of the judgment creditor and
his attorney, if applicable.
4.The last mailing address of the judgment debtor
known to the judgment creditor.
C.The judgment creditor, in the manner required for
a summons by rules of the court in civil matters, shall serve on the garnishee
two copies of the summons and writ of garnishment, a copy of the underlying
judgment, four copies of the answer form, two copies of the notice to judgment
debtor and request for hearing form and one copy of the instructions to
garnishee provided for in section 121596.
D.Within three days, not including weekends and
holidays, the garnishee shall deliver to the judgment debtor a copy of the
summons and writ of garnishment, a copy of the underlying judgment and the
notice to judgment debtor and request for hearing form. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 12-1585, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1585.Order regarding personal property subject to garnishment;
objection; hearing
A.If the answer shows that the garnishee was
holding personal property of the judgment debtor at the time the writ was
served, and no objection to the writ or answer is timely filed, on application
by the judgment creditor the court shall enter an order on the writ against the
garnishee to hold the nonexempt personal property of the judgment debtor held
by the garnishee when the writ was served pending service of a writ of special
execution pursuant to section 121554.
B.If a timely objection is filed the court, after
hearing evidence and argument, shall determine whether the writ is valid
against the judgment debtor, what amount is presently due and owing on the
underlying judgment and what amount of nonexempt personal property of the
judgment debtor, if any, the garnishee was holding at the time the writ was
served, and the court shall enter an order on the writ against the garnishee to
hold the nonexempt personal property or enter an order discharging the
garnishee if no nonexempt personal property is determined to be held by the
garnishee.
C.The judgment creditor shall deliver a copy of the
order on the writ to the garnishee and the judgment debtor.
D.An order entered pursuant to subsection A or B of
this section shall not order more property held than is reasonably necessary to
satisfy the amount of the outstanding balance of the underlying judgment,
together with accrued interest and costs and attorney fees, if awarded.
E.An order entered pursuant to subsection A or B of
this section shall order the garnishee to hold the adjudged nonexempt personal
property from the judgment debtor and to deliver the property to the sheriff or any constable presenting a
writ of general execution or special execution based on the underlying
judgment.The court may order the judgment debtor or the garnishee,
or both, to execute and deliver to the sheriff or constable such instruments or documents as
are within the legal power of the judgment debtor or garnishee to execute and
to deliver.To effectuate the execution and delivery, the court may
order a garnishee corporation to issue and deliver unissued stock or securities
of the corporation owned by the judgment debtor.
F.If no writ of special execution is served on the
garnishee by the sheriff or constable
within ninety days after the entry of the order pursuant to subsection A or B
of this section, the order on the writ expires, the garnishee has no further
obligation on the writ and the garnishee is no longer restricted from
transferring the nonexempt personal property to the judgment debtor. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 12-1598.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1598.04.Issuance of writ of garnishment for earnings; service and
return of writ; lien on nonexempt earnings
A.If a party in an action has been awarded a money
judgment and has submitted the application provided for in section 121598.03,
the clerk, justice of the peace or city or town magistrate shall immediately
issue a writ and summons of garnishment directed to the sheriff, the constable or any officer authorized by
law to serve process in the county where the garnishee is alleged to be which
commands him to immediately summon the garnishee to appear before the court out
of which the writ issued within the time specified in the writ to answer the
writ.
B.The writ shall state:
1.The amount of the outstanding balance due on the
judgment, including accrued interest and allowable costs, as of the date of the
issuance of the writ, and the rate at which interest accrues on that judgment.
2.The name and address of the garnishee or his
authorized agent.
3.The name and address of the judgment creditor and
his attorney, if applicable.
4.The last mailing address of the judgment debtor
known to the judgment creditor.
C.The judgment creditor, in the manner required for
a summons by rules of the court in civil matters, shall serve on the garnishee
two copies of the writ of garnishment and summons, a copy of the underlying
judgment, four copies of the answer form, two copies of the notice to judgment
debtor and request for hearing form, two copies of the instructions to
garnishee and four copies of the nonexempt earnings statement provided for in
section 121598.16.
D.The judgment creditor shall deliver to the
judgment debtor a copy of the writ and the initial notice to judgment debtor
and request for hearing form within three days, not including weekends and
holidays, after service of the summons and writ of garnishment on the
garnishee.The judgment creditor shall certify in writing to the court
the date and manner of delivery.
E.The caption of pleadings in connection with a
writ of garnishment shall identify which party is the judgment creditor, using
that term, and which party is the judgment debtor, using that term, in addition
to other party designations already in the caption. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 12-1642, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1642.Determination of issue between principal and surety;
finding for surety and order of levy
A.When an action is brought against two or more
defendants upon a contract, and one or more of the defendants are surety for
the others, the surety may cause the issue of suretyship between the defendants
to be tried and determined at any time before the trial, but such proceedings
shall not delay the action of the plaintiff.
B.If the issue is determined in favor of the
surety, the court shall order the sheriff to levy the execution first upon the
property of the principal which is subject to execution and situate situated
in the county in which the judgment was rendered before a levy is
made upon the property of the surety, if enough property of the principal is
found as in the opinion of the sheriff or
constable is sufficient to make the amount of the execution,
otherwise the levy shall be made on so much property of the principal as is
found, if any, and upon so much of the property of the surety as is necessary
to make the amount of the execution.The clerk shall make a
memorandum of such order on the execution. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 12-1809, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1809.Injunction against harassment; petition; venue; fees;
notices; enforcement; definition
A.A person may file a verified petition with a
magistrate, justice of the peace or superior court judge for an injunction
prohibiting harassment. If the person is a minor, the parent, legal guardian
or person who has legal custody of the minor shall file the petition unless the
court determines otherwise. The petition shall name the parent, guardian or
custodian as the plaintiff, and the minor is a specifically designated person
for the purposes of subsection F of this section.If a person is
either temporarily or permanently unable to request an injunction, a third
party may request an injunction on behalf of the plaintiff.After
the request, the judicial officer shall determine if the third party is an
appropriate requesting party for the plaintiff.Notwithstanding the
location of the plaintiff or defendant, any court in this state may issue or
enforce an injunction against harassment.
B.An injunction against harassment shall not be
granted:
1.Unless the party who requests the injunction
files a written verified petition for injunction.
2.Against a person who is less than twelve years of
age unless the injunction is granted by the juvenile division of the superior
court.
3.Against more than one defendant.
C.The petition shall state all of the following:
1.The name of the plaintiff.The
plaintiff's address shall be disclosed to the court for purposes of
service.If the address of the plaintiff is unknown to the
defendant, the plaintiff may request that the address be protected. On the
plaintiff's request, the address shall not be listed on the
petition.Whether the court issues an injunction against harassment,
the protected address shall be maintained in a separate document or automated
database and is not subject to release or disclosure by the court or any form
of public access except as ordered by the court.
2.The name and address, if known, of the
defendant.
3.A specific statement showing events and dates of
the acts constituting the alleged harassment.
4.The name of the court in which there was or is
any prior or pending proceeding or order concerning the conduct that is sought
to be restrained.
5.The relief requested.
D.A fee shall not be charged for filing a petition
under this section.Fees for service of process may be deferred or
waived under any rule or law applicable to civil actions, except that fees for
service of process shall not be charged if the petition arises out of a dating
relationship. The court shall advise a plaintiff that the plaintiff may be
eligible for the deferral or waiver of these fees at the time the plaintiff
files a petition.The court shall not require the petitioner to
perform community restitution as a condition of the waiver or deferral of fees
for service of process. A law enforcement agency or constable shall not require the advance
payment of fees for service of process of injunctions against
harassment.If the court does not waive the fees, the serving agency
may assess the actual fees against the plaintiff. On request of the plaintiff,
an injunction against harassment that is issued by a municipal court may be
served by the police agency for that city if the defendant can be served within
the city.If the defendant cannot be served within the city, the
police agency in the city in which the defendant can be served may serve the
injunction. On request of the plaintiff,
each injunction against harassment that is issued by a justice of the peace
shall be served by the constable for that jurisdiction if the defendant can be
served within the jurisdiction.If the defendant cannot be served
within that jurisdiction, the constable in the jurisdiction in which the
defendant can be served shall serve the injunction. On request of
the plaintiff, an injunction against harassment that is issued by a justice of the peace or a superior
court judge or commissioner may be served by the sheriff of the
county.If the defendant cannot be served within that jurisdiction,
the sheriff in the jurisdiction in which the defendant can be served may serve
the order.The court shall provide, without charge, forms for
purposes of this section for assisting parties without counsel.
E.The court shall review the petition, any other
pleadings on file and any evidence offered by the plaintiff, including any
evidence of harassment by electronic contact or communication, to determine
whether the injunction requested should issue without a further hearing. Rules
65(a)(1) and 65(e) of the Arizona rules of civil procedure do not apply to
injunctions that are requested pursuant to this section. If the court finds
reasonable evidence of harassment of the plaintiff by the defendant during the
year preceding the filing of the petition or that good cause exists to believe
that great or irreparable harm would result to the plaintiff if the injunction
is not granted before the defendant or the defendant's attorney can be heard in
opposition and the court finds specific facts attesting to the plaintiff's
efforts to give notice to the defendant or reasons supporting the plaintiff's
claim that notice should not be given, the court shall issue an injunction as
provided for in subsection F of this section. If the court denies the
requested relief, it may schedule a further hearing within ten days with
reasonable notice to the defendant.For the purposes of determining
the one year period, any time that the defendant has been incarcerated or out
of this state shall not be counted.
F.If the court
issues an injunction, the court may do any of the following:
1.Enjoin the
defendant from committing a violation of one or more acts of harassment.
2.Restrain the defendant from contacting the
plaintiff or other specifically designated persons and from coming near the
residence, place of employment or school of the plaintiff or other specifically
designated locations or persons.
3.Grant relief necessary for the protection of the
alleged victim and other specifically designated persons proper under the
circumstances.
G.The court shall not grant a mutual injunction
against harassment. If opposing parties separately file verified petitions for
an injunction against harassment, the courts after consultation between the judicial
officers involved may consolidate the petitions of the opposing parties for
hearing.This does not prohibit a court from issuing cross
injunctions against harassment.
H.At any time during the period during which the
injunction is in effect, the defendant is entitled to one hearing on written
request. No fee may be charged for requesting a hearing. A hearing that is
requested by a defendant shall be held within ten days from the date requested
unless the court finds compelling reasons to continue the hearing. The hearing
shall be held at the earliest possible time. An ex parte injunction that is
issued under this section shall state on its face that the defendant is
entitled to a hearing on written request and shall include the name and address
of the judicial office where the request may be filed.After the
hearing, the court may modify, quash or continue the injunction.
I.The injunction shall include the following
statement:
Warning
This is an official court
order.If you disobey this order, you may be arrested and prosecuted
for the crime of interfering with judicial proceedings and any other crime you
may have committed in disobeying this order.
J.A copy of the petition and the injunction shall
be served on the defendant within one year from the date the injunction is
signed.An injunction that is not served on the defendant within one
year expires. The injunction is effective on the defendant on service of a
copy of the injunction and petition and expires one year after service on the defendant.
A modified injunction is effective upon service and expires one year after
service of the initial injunction and petition.
K.A supplemental information form that is utilized used by the court or a law enforcement agency
solely for the purposes of service of process on the defendant and that
contains information provided by the plaintiff is confidential.
L.Each affidavit, acceptance or return of service
shall be promptly filed with the clerk of the issuing court. This filing shall
be completed in person, shall be made by fax or shall be postmarked, if sent by
mail, no later than the end of the seventh court business day after the date of
service. If the filing is made by fax, the original affidavit, acceptance or
return of service shall be promptly filed with the court. Within twentyfour
hours after the affidavit, acceptance or return of service has been filed,
excluding weekends and holidays, the court from which the injunction or any
modified injunction was issued shall forward to the sheriff of the county in
which the court is located a copy of the injunction and a copy of the affidavit
or certificate of service of process or acceptance of service. On receiving
these copies, the sheriff shall register the injunction. Registration of an injunction
means that a copy of the injunction and a copy of the affidavit or certificate
of service of process or acceptance of service have been received by the
sheriff's office.The sheriff shall maintain a central repository
for injunctions so that the existence and validity of the injunctions can be
easily verified. The effectiveness of an injunction does not depend on its
registration, and for enforcement purposes pursuant to section 132810, a
copy of an injunction, whether or not registered, is presumed to be a valid
existing order of the court for a period of one year from the date of service
of the injunction on the defendant.
M.A peace officer, with or without a warrant, may
arrest a person if the peace officer has probable cause to believe that the
person has violated section 132810 by disobeying or resisting an
injunction that is issued pursuant to this section, whether or not the
violation occurred in the presence of the officer. The provisions for release
under section 133903 do not apply to an arrest made pursuant to this
subsection. A person who is arrested pursuant to this subsection may be
released from custody in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal
procedure or any other applicable statute.An order for release,
with or without an appearance bond, shall include pretrial release conditions
that are necessary to provide for the protection of the alleged victim and
other specifically designated persons and may provide for additional conditions
that the court deems appropriate, including participation in any counseling
programs available to the defendant.
N.If a peace officer responds to a call alleging
that harassment has been or may be committed, the officer shall inform in
writing any alleged or potential victim of the procedures and resources
available for the protection of the victim including:
1.An injunction pursuant to this section.
2.The emergency telephone number for the local
police agency.
3.Telephone numbers for emergency services in the
local community.
O.The remedies provided in this section for
enforcement of the orders of the court are in addition to any other civil and
criminal remedies available. The municipal court and the justice court may
hear and decide all matters arising pursuant to this section. After a hearing
with notice to the affected party, the court may enter an order requiring any
party to pay the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney fees, if
any. An order that is entered by a justice court or municipal court after a
hearing pursuant to this section may be appealed to the superior court as
provided in title 22, chapter 2, article 4, section 22425, subsection B
and the superior court rules of civil appellate procedure without regard to an
amount in controversy. No fee may be charged to either party for filing an
appeal.
P.A peace officer who makes an arrest pursuant to
this section is not civilly or criminally liable for the arrest if the officer
acts on probable cause and without malice.A peace officer is not
civilly liable for noncompliance with subsection M
N of this section.
Q.This section does not apply to preliminary
injunctions issued pursuant to an action for dissolution of marriage or legal
separation or for protective orders against domestic violence.
R.In addition to the persons who are authorized to
serve process pursuant to rule 4(d), Arizona rules of civil procedure, a peace
officer or a correctional officer as defined in section 411661 who is
acting in the officer's official capacity may serve an injunction against
harassment that is issued pursuant to this section.
S.For the purposes of this section,
"harassment" means a series of acts over any period of time that is
directed at a specific person and that would cause a reasonable person to be
seriously alarmed, annoyed or harassed and the conduct in fact seriously
alarms, annoys or harasses the person and serves no legitimate
purpose.Harassment includes unlawful picketing, trespassory
assembly, unlawful mass assembly, concerted interference with lawful exercise
of business activity and engaging in a secondary boycott as defined in section
231321 and defamation in violation of section 231325. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 12-2406, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-2406.Service of notice and application
A.A copy of the notice as set forth in sections 122402
and 122405 and a copy of the application for issuance of any provisional
remedy shall be served on each party against whom any remedy will operate in
the manner prescribed by law for service of a summons and complaint.
B.The notice and application shall be served by any
sheriff, constable or
private process server and return shall be made as in the case of a summons and
complaint.
C.At the time of serving the notice as set forth in
sections 122402 and 122405, the following notice in English and
Spanish shall be served:"Notice!A lawsuit has been
filed against you.In order to protect your rights, please read
carefully the other papers which were served upon you with this notice!" END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 12-3301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-3301.Private process servers; background investigation; fees
A.Private process servers who are duly appointed or
certified pursuant to rules established by the supreme court may serve all
process, writs, orders, pleadings or papers that are required or permitted by
law to be served before, during or independently of a court action, including
all such as are required or permitted to be served by a sheriff or constable pursuant to section 11-445, except
writs or orders requiring the service officer to sell, deliver or take into the
officer's custody persons or property, or as may otherwise be limited by
supreme court rule.A private process server is an officer of the
court.
B.As a condition of certification, the supreme
court shall require each private process server applicant to furnish a full set
of fingerprints to enable a criminal background investigation to be conducted
to determine the suitability of the applicant.The completed applicant
fingerprint card shall be submitted with the fee prescribed in section 411750
to the department of public safety. The applicant shall bear the cost of
obtaining the applicant's criminal history record information.The
cost may not exceed the actual cost of obtaining the applicant's criminal
history record information.Applicant criminal history records
checks shall be conducted pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.
The department of public safety may exchange the submitted applicant
fingerprint card information with the federal bureau of investigation for a
federal criminal records check.
C.A private process server may charge such fees for
services as may be agreed on between the process server and the party engaging
the process server. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 13-105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-105.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Absconder" means a probationer who has
moved from the probationer's primary residence without permission of the
probation officer, who cannot be located within ninety days of the previous
contact and against whom a petition to revoke has been filed in the superior
court alleging that the probationer's whereabouts are unknown. A probationer
is no longer deemed an absconder when the probationer is voluntarily or
involuntarily returned to probation service.
2."Act" means a bodily movement.
3."Benefit" means anything of value or
advantage, present or prospective.
4."Calendar year" means three hundred
sixtyfive days' actual time served without release, suspension or
commutation of sentence, probation, pardon or parole, work furlough or release
from confinement on any other basis.
5."Community supervision" means that
portion of a felony sentence that is imposed by the court pursuant to section
13603, subsection I and that is served in the community after completing
a period of imprisonment or served in prison in accordance with section 411604.07.
6."Conduct" means an act or omission and
its accompanying culpable mental state.
7."Crime" means a misdemeanor or a
felony.
8."Criminal street gang" means an ongoing
formal or informal association of persons in which members or associates
individually or collectively engage in the commission, attempted commission,
facilitation or solicitation of any felony act and that has at least one
individual who is a criminal street gang member.
9."Criminal street gang member" means an
individual to whom atleast two of the following seven criteria that
indicate criminal street gang membership apply:
(a)Selfproclamation.
(b)Witness testimony or official statement.
(c)Written or electronic correspondence.
(d)Paraphernalia or photographs.
(e)Tattoos.
(f)Clothing or colors.
(g)Any other indicia of street gang membership.
10."Culpable mental state" means
intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence as those terms
are defined inthis paragraph:
(a)"Intentionally" or "with the
intent to" means, with respect to a result or to conduct described by a
statute defining an offense, that a person's objective is to cause that result
or to engage in that conduct.
(b)"Knowingly" means, with respect to
conduct or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an offense, that a
person is aware or believes that the person's conduct is of that nature or that
the circumstance exists. It does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness
of the act or omission.
(c)"Recklessly" means, with respect to a
result or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an offense, that a
person is aware of and consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable
risk that the result will occur or that the circumstance exists.The
risk must be of such nature and degree that disregard of such risk constitutes
a gross deviation from the standard of conduct that a reasonable person would
observe in the situation. A person who creates such a risk but who is unaware
of such risk solely by reason of voluntary intoxication also acts recklessly
with respect to such risk.
(d)"Criminal negligence" means, with
respect to a result or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an
offense, that a person fails to perceive a substantial and unjustifiable risk
that the result will occur or that the circumstance exists.The risk
must be of such nature and degree that the failure to perceive it constitutes a
gross deviation from the standard of care that a reasonable person would
observe in the situation.
11."Dangerous drug" means dangerous drug
as defined in section 133401.
12."Dangerous instrument" means anything
that under the circumstances in which it is used, attempted to be used or
threatened to be used is readily capable of causing death or serious physical
injury.
13."Dangerous offense" means an offense
involving the discharge, use or threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or
dangerous instrument or the intentional or knowing infliction of serious
physical injury on another person.
14."Deadly physical force" means force
that is used with the purpose of causing death or serious physical injury or in
the manner of its use or intended use is capable of creating a substantial risk
of causing death or serious physical injury.
15."Deadly weapon" means anything
designed for lethal use, including a firearm.
16."Economic loss" means any loss
incurred by a person as a result of the commission of an
offense.Economic loss includes lost interest, lost earnings and
other losses that would not have been incurred but for the
offense.Economic loss does not include losses incurred by the
convicted person, damages for pain and suffering, punitive damages or
consequential damages.
17."Enterprise" includes any corporation,
association, labor union or other legal entity.
18."Felony" means an offense for which a
sentence to a term of imprisonment in the custody of the state department of
corrections is authorized by any law of this state.
19."Firearm" means any loaded or unloaded
handgun, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other weapon that will or is
designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of
expanding gases, except that it does not include a firearm in permanently inoperable
condition.
20."Government" means the state, any
political subdivision of the state or any department, agency, board,
commission, institution or governmental instrumentality of or within the state
or political subdivision.
21."Government function" means any
activity that a public servant is legally authorized to undertake on behalf of
a government.
22."Historical prior felony conviction"
means:
(a)Any prior felony conviction for which the
offense of conviction either:
(i)Mandated a term of imprisonment except for a
violation of chapter 34 of this title involving a drug below the threshold
amount.
(ii)Involved a dangerous offense.
(iii)Involved the illegal control of a criminal
enterprise.
(iv)Involved aggravated driving under the influence
of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
(v)Involved any dangerous crime against children as
defined in section 13705.
(b)Any class 2 or 3 felony, except the offenses
listed in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, that was committed within the ten
years immediately preceding the date of the present offense. Any time spent on
absconder status while on probation, on escape status or incarcerated is
excluded in calculating if the offense was committed within the preceding ten
years. If a court determines a person was not on absconder status while on
probation or escape status, that time is not excluded.For the
purposes of this subdivision, "escape" means:
(i)A departure from custody or from a juvenile
secure care facility, a juvenile detention facility or an adult correctional
facility in which the person is held or detained, with knowledge that the
departure is not permitted, or the failure to return to custody or detention
following a temporary leave granted for a specific purpose or for a limited period.
(ii)A failure to report as ordered to custody or
detention to begin serving a term of incarceration.
(c)Any class 4, 5 or 6 felony, except the offenses
listed in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, that was committed within the five
years immediately preceding the date of the present offense. Any time spent on
absconder status while on probation, on escape status or incarcerated is
excluded in calculating if the offense was committed within the preceding five
years.If a court determines a person was not on absconder status
while on probation or escape status, that time is not excluded. For the
purposes of this subdivision, "escape" has the same meaning
prescribed in subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(d)Any felony conviction that is a third or more
prior felony conviction. For the purposes of this subdivision, "prior
felony conviction" includes any offense committed outside the jurisdiction
of this state that was punishable by that jurisdiction as a felony.
(e)Any offense committed outside the jurisdiction
of this state that was punishable by that jurisdiction as a felony and that was
committed within the five years immediately preceding the date of the present
offense. Any time spent on absconder status while on probation, on escape
status or incarcerated is excluded in calculating if the offense was committed
within the preceding five years.If a court determines a person was
not on absconder status while on probation or escape status, that time is not
excluded.For the purposes of this subdivision, "escape"
has the same meaning prescribed in subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(f)Any offense committed outside the jurisdiction
of this state that involved the discharge, use or threatening exhibition of a
deadly weapon or dangerous instrument or the intentional or knowing infliction
of death or serious physical injury and that was punishable by that
jurisdiction as a felony.A person who has been convicted of a
felony weapons possession violation in any court outside the jurisdiction of
this state that would not be punishable as a felony under the laws of this
state is not subject to this paragraph.
23."Human smuggling organization" means
an ongoing formal or informal association of persons in which members or
associates individually or collectively engage in the smuggling of human
beings.
24."Intoxication" means any mental or
physical incapacity resulting from use of drugs, toxic vapors or intoxicating
liquors.
25."Misdemeanor" means an offense for
which a sentence to a term of imprisonment other than to the custody of the
state department of corrections is authorized by any law of this state.
26."Narcotic drug" means narcotic drugs
as defined in section 133401.
27."Offense" or "public
offense" means conduct for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment or
of a fine is provided by any law of the state in which it occurred or by any
law, regulation or ordinance of a political subdivision of that state and, if
the act occurred in a state other than this state, it would be so punishable under
the laws, regulations or ordinances of this state or of a political subdivision
of this state if the act had occurred in this state.
28."Omission" means the failure to
perform an act as to which a duty of performance is imposed by law.
29."Peace officer" means any person
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and make arrests and includes a constable.
30."Person" means a human being and, as
the context requires, an enterprise, a public or private corporation, an
unincorporated association, a partnership, a firm, a society, a government, a
governmental authority or an individual or entity capable of holding a legal or
beneficial interest in property.
31."Petty offense" means an offense for
which a sentence of a fine only is authorized by law.
32."Physical force" means force used upon
or directed toward the body of another person and includes confinement, but
does not include deadly physical force.
33."Physical injury" means the impairment
of physical condition.
34."Possess" means knowingly to have
physical possession or otherwise to exercise dominion or control over property.
35."Possession" means a voluntary act if
the defendant knowingly exercised dominion or control over property.
36."Preconviction custody" means the
confinement of a person in a jail in this state or another state after the
person is arrested for or charged with a felony offense.
37."Property" means anything of value,
tangible or intangible.
38."Public servant":
(a)Means any officer or employee of any branch of
government, whether elected, appointed or otherwise employed, including a peace
officer, and any person participating as an advisor or consultant or otherwise
in performing a governmental function.
(b)Does not include jurors or witnesses.
(c)Includes those who have been elected, appointed,
employed or designated to become a public servant although not yet occupying
that position.
39."Serious physical injury" includes
physical injury that creates a reasonable risk of death, or that causes serious
and permanent disfigurement, serious impairment of health or loss or protracted
impairment of the function of any bodily organ or limb.
40."Unlawful" means contrary to law or,
where the context so requires, not permitted by law.
41."Vehicle" means a device in, upon or
by which any person or property is, may be or could have been transported or
drawn upon a highway, waterway or airway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
42."Voluntary act" means a bodily
movement performed consciously and as a result of effort and determination.
43."Voluntary intoxication" means
intoxication caused by the knowing use of drugs, toxic vapors or intoxicating
liquors by a person, the tendency of which to cause intoxication the person
knows or ought to know, unless the person introduces them pursuant to medical
advice or under such duress as would afford a defense to an offense. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 13-813, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-813.Issuance of writ of garnishment; service and return of
writ
A.The court shall direct the writ of criminal
garnishment to the sheriff, the constable
or any other officer who is authorized by law to serve process in the county in
which the garnishee is alleged to be.The writ shall summon the
garnishee to immediately appear to answer the writ before the court issuing the
writ.The garnishee shall appear within the time specified in the
writ.The writ shall state all of the following:
1.The amount due to the victim or court, clerk of
the court or prosecuting attorney as of the date on which the writ is issued.
2.The name and address of the garnishee or the
garnishee's authorized agent.
3.The name and address of the victim or the court,
clerk of the court or prosecuting attorney presenting the writ.
4.The last known mailing address of the defendant.
B.The victim or the court, the clerk of the court
or the prosecuting attorney shall serve the following on the garnishee:
1.Two copies of the writ of garnishment and
summons.
2.A copy of the criminal restitution order.
3.Four copies of the answer form.
4.Two copies of the notice to the defendant.
5.Two copies of the instructions to the garnishee.
C.The victim or the court, the clerk of the court
or the prosecuting attorney shall serve on the defendant a copy of
thewrit of garnishment.
D.The victim or the court, the clerk of the court
or the prosecuting attorney may serve a copy of the writ of garnishment on the
manager or other officer of a banking corporation or association, savings bank,
savings and loan association, credit union, trust company or title insurance
company to levy monies that are owed pursuant to a writ of criminal garnishment
by one of these organizations or to levy credits or other effects that belong
to a defendant and that are in the possession of or under the control of one of
these organizations.The copy of the writ shall be served at any
office or branch that is located in the county in which the service is
made.A garnishment is not effective as to any debt owed by a
banking corporation or association, savings bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, trust company or title insurance company if the account
evidencing the indebtedness is carried at an office or branch other than the
office or branch named in the writ and at which service is made or, as to
credits or other effects in its possession or under its control, at any other
office or branch unless the service of the writ is accompanied by twentyfive
dollars to be paid to the garnishee for the costs of the search.The
writ is effective on the payment of the search fee as to any debt owing by a
banking corporation or association, savings bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, trust company or title insurance company if the account
evidencing the indebtedness is carried at any office or branch located in this
state, or as to any credits, property or other effects in its possession or
under its control, at any office or branch located in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 13-1204, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-1204.Aggravated assault; classification; definitions
A.A person commits aggravated assault if the person
commits assault as prescribed by section 131203 under any of the
following circumstances:
1.If the person causes serious physical injury to
another.
2.If the person uses a deadly weapon or dangerous
instrument.
3.If the person commits the assault by any means of
force that causes temporary but substantial disfigurement, temporary but substantial
loss or impairment of any body organ or part or a fracture of any body part.
4.If the person commits the assault while the
victim is bound or otherwise physically restrained or while the victim's
capacity to resist is substantially impaired.
5.If the person commits the assault after entering
the private home of another with the intent to commit the assault.
6.If the person is eighteen years of age or older
and commits the assault on a minor under fifteen years of age.
7.If the person commits assault as prescribed by
section 131203, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 3 and the person is in
violation of an order of protection issued against the person pursuant to
section 133602 or 133624.
8.If the person commits the assault knowing or
having reason to know that the victim is any of the following:
(a)A peace officer, or a person summoned and
directed by the officer while engaged in the execution of any official duties
or if the assault results from the execution of the peace officer's official
duties.
(b)A
constable, or a person summoned and directed by the constable while engaged in
the execution of any official duties or if the assault results from the
execution of the constable's official duties.
(c)(b)A firefighter, fire investigator,
fire inspector, emergency medical technician or paramedic engaged in the
execution of any official duties, or a person summoned and directed by such
individual while engaged in the execution of any official duties or if the
assault results from the execution of the official duties of the firefighter,
fire investigator, fire inspector, emergency medical technician or paramedic.
(d)(c)A teacher or other person
employed by any school and the teacher or other employee is on the grounds of a
school or grounds adjacent to the school or is in any part of a building or
vehicle used for school purposes, any teacher or school nurse visiting a
private home in the course of the teacher's or nurse's professional duties or
any teacher engaged in any authorized and organizedclassroom activity
held on other than school grounds.
(e)(d)A health care practitioner who is
certified or licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 15, 17 or 25, or a
person summoned and directed by the licensed health care practitioner while
engaged in the person's professional duties.This subdivision does
not apply if the person who commits the assault is seriously mentally ill, as
defined in section 36550, or is afflicted with alzheimer's disease or
related dementia.
(f)(e)A prosecutor while engaged in the
execution of any official duties or if the assault results from the execution
of the prosecutor's official duties.
(g)(f)A code enforcement officer as
defined in section 39-123 while engaged in the execution of any official duties
or if the assault results from the execution of the code enforcement officer's
official duties.
(h)(g)A state or municipal park ranger
while engaged in the execution of any official duties or if the assault results
from the execution of the park ranger's official duties.
(i)(h)A public defender while engaged
in the execution of any official duties or if the assault results from the
execution of the public defender's official duties.
(j)(i)A judicial officer while engaged
in the execution of any official duties or if the assault results from the
execution of the judicial officer's official duties.
9.If the person knowingly takes or attempts to
exercise control over any of the following:
(a)A peace officer's or other officer's firearm and
the person knows or has reason to know that the victim is a peace officer or
other officer employed by one of the agencies listed in paragraph 10,
subdivision (a), item (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of this subsection and is
engaged in the execution of any official duties.
(b)Any weapon other than a firearm that is being
used by a peace officer or other officer or that the officer is attempting to
use, and the person knows or has reason to know that the victim is a peace
officer or other officer employed by one of the agencies listed in paragraph
10, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of this subsection and
is engaged in the execution of any official duties.
(c)Any implement that is being used by a peace
officer or other officer or that the officer is attempting to use, and the
person knows or has reason to know that the victim is a peace officer or other
officer employed by one of the agencies listed in paragraph 10, subdivision
(a), item (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of this subsection and is engaged in
the execution of any official duties. For the purposes of this subdivision,
"implement" means an object that is designed for or that is capable
of restraining or injuring an individual.Implement does not include
handcuffs.
10.If the person
meets both of the following conditions:
(a)Is imprisoned or
otherwise subject to the custody of any of the following:
(i)The state department of corrections.
(ii)The department of juvenile corrections.
(iii)A law enforcement agency.
(iv)A county or city jail or an adult or juvenile
detention facility of a city or county.
(v)Any other entity that is contracting with the
state department of corrections, the department of juvenile corrections, a law
enforcement agency, another state, any private correctional facility, a county,
a city or the federal bureau of prisons or other federal agency that has
responsibility for sentenced or unsentenced prisoners.
(b)Commits an assault knowing or having reason to
know that the victim is acting in an official capacity as an employee of any of
the entities listed in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
11.If the person uses a simulated deadly weapon.
B.A person commits aggravated assault if the person
commits assault by either intentionally, knowingly or recklessly causing any
physical injury to another person, intentionally placing another person in
reasonable apprehension of imminent physical injury or knowingly touching
another person with the intent to injure the person, and both of the following occur:
1.The person intentionally or knowingly impedes the
normal breathing or circulation of blood of another person by applying pressure
to the throat or neck or by obstructing the nose and mouth either manually or
through the use of an instrument.
2.Any of the circumstances exists that are set
forth in section 133601, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6.
C.A person who is convicted of intentionally or
knowingly committing aggravated assault on a peace officer while the officer is
engaged in the execution of any official duties pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 1 or 2 of this section shall be sentenced to imprisonment for not
less than the presumptive sentence authorized under chapter 7 of this title and
is not eligible for suspension of sentence, commutation or release on any basis
until the sentence imposed is served.
D.Except pursuant to subsections E and F of this
section, aggravated assault pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2,
paragraph 9, subdivision (a) or paragraph 11 of this section is a class 3
felony except if the aggravated assault is a violation of subsection A,
paragraph 1 or 2 or paragraph 9, subdivision (a) of this section and the victim
is under fifteen years of age it is a class 2 felony punishable pursuant to
section 13705. Aggravated assault pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3
or subsection B of this section is a class 4 felony.Aggravated
assault pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 9, subdivision (b) or paragraph 10
of this section is a class 5 felony. Aggravated assault pursuant to subsection
A, paragraph 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 or paragraph 9, subdivision (c) of this section is
a class 6 felony.
E.Aggravated assault pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 1 or 2 of this section committed on a peace officer while the officer
is engaged in the execution of any official duties is a class 2 felony.
Aggravated assault pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section
committed on a peace officer while the officer is engaged in the execution of
any official duties is a class 3 felony.Aggravated assault pursuant
to subsection A, paragraph 8, subdivision (a) of this section committed on a
peace officer while the officer is engaged in the execution of any official
duties is a class 5 felony unless the assault results in any physical injury to
the peace officer while the officer is engaged in the execution of any official
duties, in which case it is a class 4 felony.
F.Aggravated assault pursuant to:
1.Subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section is
a class 2 felony if committed on a prosecutor.
2.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is a
class 3 felony if committed on a prosecutor.
3.Subsection A, paragraph 8, subdivision (f) (e) of
this section is a class 5 felony if the assault results in physical injury to a
prosecutor.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Judicial officer" means a justice of
the supreme court, judge, justice of the peace,
or magistrate or a commissioner or hearing officer of a state,
county or municipal court.
2."Prosecutor" means a county attorney, a
municipal prosecutor or the attorney general and includes an assistant or
deputy county attorney, municipal prosecutor or attorney general. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Section 13-3602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3602.Order of protection; procedure; contents; arrest for
violation; penalty; protection order from another jurisdiction
A.A person may file a verified petition, as in
civil actions, with a magistrate, justice of the peace or superior court judge
for an order of protection for the purpose of restraining a person from
committing an act included in domestic violence. If the person is a minor, the
parent, legal guardian or person who has legal custody of the minor shall file
the petition unless the court determines otherwise. The petition shall name
the parent, guardian or custodian as the plaintiff and the minor is a
specifically designated person for the purposes of subsection G of this
section.If a person is either temporarily or permanently unable to
request an order, a third party may request an order of protection on behalf of
the plaintiff. After the request, the judicial officer shall determine if the third
party is an appropriate requesting party for the plaintiff. For the purposes
of this section, notwithstanding the location of the plaintiff or defendant,
any court in this state may issue or enforce an order of protection.
B.An order of protection shall not be granted:
1.Unless the party who requests the order files a
written verified petition for an order.
2.Against a person who is less than twelve years of
age unless the order is granted by the juvenile division of the superior court.
3.Against more than one defendant.
C.The petition shall state the:
1.Name of the plaintiff. The plaintiff's address
shall be disclosed to the court for purposes of service.If the
address of the plaintiff is unknown to the defendant, the plaintiff may request
that the address be protected. On the plaintiff's request, the address shall
not be listed on the petition.Whether the court issues an order of
protection, the protected address shall be maintained in a separate document or
automated database and is not subject to release or disclosure by the court or
any form of public access except as ordered by the court.
2.Name and address, if known, of the defendant.
3.Specific statement, including dates, of the
domestic violence alleged.
4.Relationship between the parties pursuant to
section 133601, subsection A and whether there is pending between the
parties an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation or
dissolution of marriage.
5.Name of the court in which any prior or pending proceeding
or order was sought or issued concerning the conduct that is sought to be
restrained.
6.Desired relief.
D.A fee shall not be charged for filing a petition
under this section or for service of process.On request of the
plaintiff, each order of protection that is issued by a municipal court shall
be served by the police agency for that city if the defendant can be served
within the city. If the defendant cannot be served within the city, the police
agency in the city in which the defendant can be served shall serve the order.
If the order cannot be served within a city, the sheriff shall serve the
order. On request of the plaintiff, each order of protection that is issued by
a justice of the peace shall be served by the constable or sheriff for that jurisdiction if
the defendant can be served within the jurisdiction. If the defendant cannot
be served within that jurisdiction, the constable
or sheriff in the jurisdiction in which the defendant can be
served shall serve the order. On request of the plaintiff, each order of
protection that is issued by a superior court judge or commissioner shall be
served by the sheriff of the county.If the defendant cannot be
served within that jurisdiction, the sheriff in the jurisdiction in which the
defendant can be served shall serve the order. Each court shall provide,
without charge, forms for purposes of this section for assisting parties
without counsel. The court shall make reasonable efforts to provide to both
parties an appropriate information sheet on emergency and counseling services
that are available in the local area.
E.The court shall review the petition, any other
pleadings on file and any evidence offered by the plaintiff, including any
evidence of harassment by electronic contact or communication, to determine
whether the orders requested should issue without further hearing. The court
shall issue an order of protection under subsection G of this section if the
court determines that there is reasonable cause to believe any of the following:
1.The defendant may commit an act of domestic
violence.
2.The defendant has committed an act of domestic
violence within the past year or within a longer period of time if the court
finds that good cause exists to consider a longer period.
F.For the purposes of determining the period of
time under subsection E, paragraph 2 of this section, any time that the
defendant has been incarcerated or out of this state shall not be counted. If
the court denies the requested relief, it may schedule a further hearing within
ten days, with reasonable notice to the defendant.
G.If a court issues an order of protection, the
court may do any of the following:
1.Enjoin the defendant from committing a violation
of one or more of the offenses included in domestic violence.
2.Grant one party the use and exclusive possession
of the parties' residence on a showing that there is reasonable cause to
believe that physical harm may otherwise result. If the other party is
accompanied by a law enforcement officer, the other party may return to the
residence on one occasion to retrieve belongings. A law enforcement officer is
not liable for any act or omission in the good faith exercise of the officer's
duties under this paragraph.
3.Restrain the defendant from contacting the
plaintiff or other specifically designated persons and from coming near the
residence, place of employment or school of the plaintiff or other specifically
designated locations or persons on a showing that there is reasonable cause to
believe that physical harm may otherwise result.
4.If the court finds that the defendant is a
credible threat to the physical safety of the plaintiff or other specifically
designated persons, prohibit the defendant from possessing or purchasing a
firearm for the duration of the order. If the court prohibits the defendant
from possessing a firearm, the court shall also order the defendant to transfer
any firearm owned or possessed by the defendant immediately after service of
the order to the appropriate law enforcement agency for the duration of the
order. If the defendant does not immediately transfer the firearm, the
defendant shall transfer the firearm within twentyfour hours after
service of the order.
5.If the order was issued after notice and a
hearing at which the defendant had an opportunity to participate, require the
defendant to complete a domestic violence offender treatment program that is
provided by a facility approved by the department of health services or a
probation department or any other program deemed appropriate by the court.
6.Grant relief that is necessary for the protection
of the alleged victim and other specifically designated persons and that is
proper under the circumstances.
7.Grant the petitioner the exclusive care, custody
or control of any animal that is owned, possessed, leased, kept or held by the
petitioner, the respondent or a minor child residing in the residence or
household of the petitioner or the respondent, and order the respondent to stay
away from the animal and forbid the respondent from taking, transferring,
encumbering, concealing, committing an act of cruelty or neglect in violation
of section 132910 or otherwise disposing of the animal.
H.The court shall not grant a mutual order of
protection.If opposing parties separately file verified petitions
for an order of protection, the courts after consultation between the judges
involved may consolidate the petitions of the opposing parties for hearing.
This does not prohibit a court from issuing cross orders of protection.
I.At any time during the period during which the
order is in effect, a party who is under an order of protection or who is
restrained from contacting the other party is entitled to one hearing on
written request. No fee may be charged for requesting a hearing. A hearing
that is requested by a party who is under an order of protection or who is
restrained from contacting the other party shall be held within ten days from
the date requested unless the court finds good cause to continue the hearing.
If exclusive use of the home is awarded, the hearing shall be held within five
days from the date requested.The hearing shall be held at the
earliest possible time. An ex parte order that is issued under this section
shall state on its face that the defendant is entitled to a hearing on written
request and shall include the name and address of the judicial office where the
request may be filed. After the hearing, the court may modify, quash or
continue the order.
J.The order shall include the following statement:
Warning
This is an official court order.If you disobey
this order, you will be subject to arrest and prosecution for the crime of
interfering with judicial proceedings and any other crime you may have
committed in disobeying this order.
K.A copy of the petition and the order shall be
served on the defendant within one year from the date the order is signed. An
order of protection that is not served on the defendant within one year
expires.An order is effective on the defendant on service of a copy
of the order and petition.An order expires one year after service
on the defendant.A modified order is effective on service and
expires one year after service of the initial order and petition.
L.A supplemental information form that is utilized used by the court or a law enforcement agency
solely for the purposes of service of process on the defendant and that
contains information provided by the plaintiff is confidential.
M.Each affidavit, acceptance or return of service
shall be promptly filed with the clerk of the issuing court.This
filing shall be completed in person, shall be made by fax or shall be
postmarked, if sent by mail, no later than the end of the seventh court
business day after the date of service. If the filing is made by fax, the
original affidavit, acceptance or return of service shall be promptly filed
with the court.Within twentyfour hours after the affidavit,
acceptance or return of service has been filed, excluding weekends and
holidays, the court from which the order or any modified order was issued shall
forward to the sheriff of the county in which the court is located a copy of
the order of protection and a copy of the affidavit or certificate of service
of process or acceptance of service. On receiving these copies, the sheriff
shall register the order. Registration of an order means that a copy of the
order of protection and a copy of the affidavit or acceptance of service have
been received by the sheriff's office.The sheriff shall maintain a
central repository for orders of protection so that the existence and validity
of the orders can be easily verified. The effectiveness of an order does not
depend on its registration, and for enforcement purposes pursuant to section 132810,
a copy of an order of the court, whether or not registered, is presumed to be a
valid existing order of the court for a period of one year from the date of
service of the order on the defendant.
N.A peace officer, with or without a warrant, may
arrest a person if the peace officer has probable cause to believe that the
person has violated section 132810 by disobeying or resisting an order
that is issued in any jurisdiction in this state pursuant to this section,
whether or not such violation occurred in the presence of the officer.
Criminal violations of an order issued pursuant to this section shall be
referred to an appropriate law enforcement agency.The law
enforcement agency shall request that a prosecutorial agency file the
appropriate charges. A violation of an order of protection shall not be
adjudicated by a municipal or justice court unless a complaint has been filed
or other legal process has been requested by the prosecuting
agency.The provisions for release under section 133883,
subsection A, paragraph 4 and section 133903 do not apply to an arrest
made pursuant to this section. For the purposes of this section, any court in
this state has jurisdiction to enforce a valid order of protection that is
issued in this state and that has been violated in any jurisdiction in this
state.
O.A person who is arrested pursuant to subsection M N of this section may be released from
custody in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or any other
applicable statute. An order for release, with or without an appearance bond,
shall include pretrial release conditions that are necessary to provide for the
protection of the alleged victim and other specifically designated persons and
may provide for any other additional conditions that the court deems appropriate,
including participation in any counseling programs available to the defendant.
The agency with custody of the defendant shall make reasonable efforts to
contact the victim and other specifically designated persons in the order of
protection, if known to the custodial agency, who requested notification
immediately on release of the arrested person from custody.
P.The remedies provided in this section for
enforcement of the orders of the court are in addition to any other civil and
criminal remedies available.The superior court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to issue orders of protection in all cases if it appears from the
petition that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation
or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties. A municipal court
or justice court shall not issue an order of protection if it appears from the
petition that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation
or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties.After
issuance of an order of protection, if the municipal court or justice court
determines that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal
separation or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties, the
municipal court or justice court shall stop further proceedings in the action
and forward all papers, together with a certified copy of docket entries or any
other record in the action, to the superior court where they shall be docketed
in the pending superior court action and shall proceed as though the petition
for an order of protection had been originally brought in the superior court.
Notwithstanding any other law and unless prohibited by an order of the superior
court, a municipal court or justice court may hold a hearing on all matters
relating to its ex parte order of protection if the hearing was requested
before receiving written notice of the pending superior court
action.No order of protection shall be invalid or determined to be
ineffective merely because it was issued by a lower court at a time when an
action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation or dissolution
of marriage was pending in a higher court. After a hearing with notice to the
affected party, the court may enter an order requiring any party to pay the
costs of the action, including reasonable attorney fees, if any.An
order that is entered by a justice court or municipal court after a hearing
pursuant to this section may be appealed to the superior court as provided in
title 22, chapter 2, article 4, section 22425, subsection B and the
superior court rules of civil appellate procedure without regard to an amount
in controversy.No fee may be charged to either party for filing an
appeal. For the purposes of this subsection, "pending" means, with
respect to an action for annulment, legal separation or dissolution of marriage
or for maternity or paternity, either that:
1.An action has been
commenced but a final judgment, decree or order has not been entered.
2.A postdecree
proceeding has been commenced but a judgment, decree or order finally
determining the proceeding has not been entered.
Q.A peace officer who makes an arrest pursuant to
this section or section 133601 is not civilly or criminally liable for
the arrest if the officer acts on probable cause and without malice.
R.In addition to persons authorized to serve
process pursuant to rule 4(d) of the Arizona rules of civil procedure, a peace
officer or a correctional officer as defined in section 411661 who is
acting in the officer's official capacity may serve an order of protection that
is issued pursuant to this section.Service of the order of
protection has priority over other service of process that does not involve an
immediate threat to the safety of a person.
S.A valid protection order that is related to
domestic or family violence and that is issued by a court in another state, a
court of a United States territory or a tribal court shall be accorded full
faith and credit and shall be enforced as if it were issued in this state for
as long as the order is effective in the issuing jurisdiction.For
the purposes of this subsection:
1.A protection order includes any injunction or
other order that is issued for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening
acts or harassment against, contact or communication with or physical proximity
to another person.A protection order includes temporary and final
orders other than support or child custody orders that are issued by civil and
criminal courts if the order is obtained by the filing of an independent action
or is a pendente lite order in another proceeding. The civil order shall be
issued in response to a complaint, petition or motion that was filed by or on
behalf of a person seeking protection.
2.A protection order is valid if the issuing court
had jurisdiction over the parties and the matter under the laws of the issuing
state, a United States territory or an Indian tribe and the person against whom
the order was issued had reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard. If
the order is issued ex parte, the notice and opportunity to be heard shall be
provided within the time required by the laws of the issuing state, a United
States territory or an Indian tribe and within a reasonable time after the
order was issued.
3.A mutual protection order that is issued against
both the party who filed a petition or a complaint or otherwise filed a written
pleading for protection against abuse and the person against whom the filing
was made is not entitled to full faith and credit if either:
(a)The person
against whom an initial order was sought has not filed a cross or counter
petition or other written pleading seeking a protection order.
(b)The issuing court
failed to make specific findings supporting the entitlement of both parties to
be granted a protection order.
4.A peace officer may presume the validity of and
rely on a copy of a protection order that is issued by another state, a United
States territory or an Indian tribe if the order was given to the officer by
any source.A peace officer may also rely on the statement of any
person who is protected by the order that the order remains in effect. A peace
officer who acts in good faith reliance on a protection order is not civilly or
criminally liable for enforcing the protection order pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 13-3804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3804.Duty of officers to disperse unlawful assembly
A.Where any number of persons, whether armed or
not, are unlawfully or riotously assembled, the sheriff and his deputies,
officials governing the city or town, peace officers or justices of the peace and constables, or any of them,
shall go among the persons assembled, or as near to them as possible, and
command them, in the name of the state, immediately to disperse.
B.If the people assembled do not immediately
disperse, the magistrate and officers shall arrest them, and for that purpose
may command the aid of all persons present or within the county. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 13-4140, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4140.Warrant for immediate production of person restrained or
restraining; grounds
A.When it appears from a petition, supported by
satisfactory proof or affidavit, presented to a court or judge authorized to
grant a writ of habeas corpus, that a person is illegally held in custody,
confinement or restraint, and that there is good reason to believe that such
person will be taken from the jurisdiction of the court or judge to whom the
petition is made, or that the person will suffer some irreparable injury before
compliance with a writ of habeas corpus can be enforced, the court or judge may
cause a warrant to be issued reciting the facts, and directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county,
commanding such officer the sheriff to take the person
thus held in custody, confinement or restraint, and forthwith bring him before
the court or judge to be dealt with according to law.
B.The court or judge may also insert in the warrant
a command for apprehension of the person charged with such illegal detention
and restraint. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section
15-1808, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1808.Tuition waiver for child or spouse of peace officer,
correctional officer, firefighter, emergency paramedic, national guard member
or member of the United States armed forces killed in the line of duty;
national guard members with disabilities; United States armed forces members
with disabilities; definitions
A.The Arizona
board of regents, after verification by the Arizona peace
officers memorial board, by the Arizona fire fighters and emergency paramedics
memorial board, by the adjutant general of the national guard or by the Arizona
department of veterans' services that a person is a child or a spouse of a
peace officer, correctional officer, fire
fighter firefighter,
emergency paramedic, national guard member or member of the United States armed
forces who was a resident of the state of Arizona or stationed in Arizona and
who was killed in the line of duty or who died from injuries suffered in the
line of duty while traveling to or from duty, shall provide the person who
qualifies under subsection B of this section and who otherwise meets the
qualifications for admission with a tuition waiver scholarship at any
university under the jurisdiction of the board. A district as defined in
section 151401, after verification by the Arizona peace officers
memorial board, by the Arizona fire fighters and emergency paramedics memorial
board, by the adjutant general of the national guard or by the Arizona
department of veterans' services that a person is the child or the spouse of a
peace officer, correctional officer, firefighter, emergency paramedic, national
guard member or member of the United States armed forces who was a resident of
Arizona or stationed in Arizona and who was killed in the line of duty or who
died from injuries suffered in the line of duty while traveling to or from
duty, shall provide the person who qualifies under subsection B of this section
and who otherwise meets the qualifications for admission with a tuition waiver
scholarship at any community college under the jurisdiction of the district.
B.The tuition waiver scholarships shall be limited
to children who are thirty years of age or younger or a spouse who has not
remarried and shall be limited for a spouse or for any one child to no more
than sixtyfour credit hours at Arizona community colleges and a total
number of credits including any transfer credits from an Arizona community
college equal to the number of credits required for a baccalaureate degree at
Arizona universities for that student's initially declared course of study.
C.A member of the Arizona national guard who
received a purple heart citation on or after September 11, 2001 or a former
member of the Arizona national guard who was medically discharged from the
Arizona national guard due to an injury or disability suffered during status
under title 10, United States Code, in weekend training status, in annual
training status or in response to a state of emergency declared by the governor
is eligible for a tuition waiver scholarship provided for in this section.
D.The Arizona
board of regents, after verification by the Arizona department of veterans'
services that a person is a member or former member of the United States armed
forces who received a purple heart citation, who was a resident of the state of
Arizona or was stationed in Arizona at the time of the injury that resulted in
the purple heart citation and whose disability rating determined by the United
States department of veterans affairs is fifty per cent or more, shall provide
the person who otherwise meets the qualifications for admission with a tuition
waiver scholarship at any university under the jurisdiction of the board. A
district as defined in section 151401, after verification by the Arizona
department of veterans' services that a person is a member or former member of
the United States armed forces who received a purple heart citation, who was a
resident of the state of Arizona or was stationed in Arizona at the time of the
injury that resulted in the purple heart citation and whose disability rating
determined by the United States department of veterans affairs is fifty per
cent or more, shall provide the person who otherwise meets the qualifications
for admission with a tuition waiver scholarship at any community college under
the jurisdiction of the district. A person who is convicted of a felony is
ineligible for a tuition waiver scholarship provided for in this subsection.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Correctional officer" means a person,
other than an elected official, who is employed by this state or a county, city
or town and who is responsible for the supervision, protection, care, custody
or control of inmates in a state, county or municipal correctional institution,
including counselors but excluding secretarial, clerical and professionally
trained personnel.
2."Emergency paramedic" means a person
who has been trained in an emergency paramedic training program certified by
the director of the department of health services or in an equivalent training
program and who is certified by the director of the department of health
services to render services pursuant to section 362205.
3."Firefighter" means a professional
firefighter who is a
member of a state, federal, tribal, city, county, district or private fire
department.
4."Peace officers" means sheriffs of
counties, constables,
marshals, police officers of cities and towns, commissioned personnel of the
department of public safety and police officers appointed by community college
district governing boards or the Arizona board of regents who have received a
certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards and training board, and
other state, federal, tribal, city or county officers vested by law with a duty
to maintain public order and make arrests. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section
16-322, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-322.Number of signatures required on nomination petitions
A.Nomination
petitions shall be signed by a number of qualified signers equal to:
1.If for a candidate for the office of United
States senator or for a state office, excepting members of the legislature and
superior court judges, at least one-fourth of one percent but not more than ten
percent of the total number of qualified signers in the state.
2.If for a candidate for the office of
representative in Congress, at least onehalf of one percent but not more
than ten percent of the total number of qualified signers in the district from
which such representative shall be elected except that if for a candidate for a
special election to fill a vacancy in the office of representative in Congress,
at least onefourth of one percent but not more than ten percent of the
total number of qualified signers in the district from which such
representative shall be elected.
3.If for a candidate for the office of member of
the legislature, at least onehalf of one percent but not more than three
percent of the total number of qualified signers in the district from which the
member of the legislature may be elected.
4.If for a candidate for a county office or
superior court judge, at least one percent but not more than ten percent of the
total number of qualified signers in the county or district, except that if for
a candidate from a county with a population of two hundred thousand persons or
more, at least onefourth of one percent but not more than ten percent of
the total number of qualified signers in the county or district.
5.If for a candidate for a community college
district, at least onequarter of one percent but not more than ten
percent of the total voter registration in the precinct as established pursuant
to section 151441.Notwithstanding the total voter
registration in the community college district, the maximum number of
signatures required by this subdivision
paragraph is one
thousand.
6.If for a candidate for county precinct
committeeman, at least two percent but not more than ten percent of the party voter registration in the precinct
or ten signatures, whichever is less.
7.If for a candidate for justice of the peace or constable, at least one
percent but not more than ten percent of the number of qualified signers in the
precinct.
8.If for a candidate for mayor or other office
nominated by a city at large, at least five percent and not more than ten
percent of the designated party vote in the city, except that a city that
chooses to hold nonpartisan elections may by ordinance provide that the minimum
number of signatures required for the candidate be one thousand signatures or
five percent of the vote in the city, whichever is less, but not more than ten
percent of the vote in the city.
9.If for an office nominated by ward, precinct or
other district of a city, at least five percent and not more than ten percent
of the designated party vote in the ward, precinct or other district, except
that a city that chooses to hold nonpartisan elections may provide by ordinance
that the minimum number of signatures required for the candidate be two hundred
fifty signatures or five percent of the vote in the district, whichever is
less, but not more than ten percent of the vote in the district.
10.If for a candidate for an office nominated by a
town at large, by a number of qualified electors who are qualified to vote for
the candidate whose nomination petition they are signing equal to at least five
percent and not more than ten percent of the vote in the town, except that a
town that chooses to hold nonpartisan elections may provide by ordinance that
the minimum number of signatures required for the candidate be one thousand
signatures or five percent of the vote in the town, whichever is less, but not
more than ten percent of the vote in the town.
11.If for a candidate for a governing board of a
school district or a joint technical education district, at least onehalf
of one percent of the total voter registration in the school district or joint
technical education district if the board members are elected at large or one
percent of the total voter registration in the single member district if
governing board members are elected from single member districts or one-half of
one percent of the total voter registration in the single member district if
joint technical education district board members are elected from single member
districts.Notwithstanding the total voter registration in the
school district, joint technical education district or single member district
of the school district or joint technical education district, the maximum number
of signatures required by this paragraph is four hundred.
12.If for a candidate for a governing body of a
special district as described in title 48, at least onehalf of one
percent of the vote in the special district but not more than two hundred fifty
and not fewer than five signatures.
B.The basis of percentage in each instance referred
to in subsection A of this section, except in cities, towns and school
districts, shall be the number of qualified signers as determined from the
voter registration totals as reported pursuant to section 16168,
subsection G on March 1 of the year in which the general election is
held.In cities, the basis of percentage shall be the vote of the
party for mayor at the last preceding election at which a mayor was
elected.In towns, the basis of percentage shall be the highest vote
cast for an elected official of the town at the last preceding election at
which an official of the town was elected.In school districts or
joint technical education districts, the basis of percentage shall be the total
number of active registered voters in the school district or joint technical
education district or single member district, whichever applies. The total
number of active registered voters for school districts or joint technical
education districts shall be calculated using the periodic reports prepared by
the county recorder pursuant to section 16168, subsection
G.The count that is reported on March 1 of the year in which the
general election is held shall be the basis for the calculation of total voter
registration for school districts or joint technical education districts.
C.In primary elections the signature requirement
for party nominees, other than nominees of the parties entitled to continued
representation pursuant to section 16804, is at least onetenth of
one percent of the total vote for the winning candidate or candidates for
governor or presidential electors at the last general election within the
district. Signatures must be obtained from qualified electors who are
qualified to vote for the candidate whose nomination petition they are signing.
D.If new boundaries for congressional districts,
legislative districts, supervisorial districts, justice precincts or election
precincts are established and effective subsequent to March 1 of the year of a
general election and prior to the date for filing of nomination petitions, the
basis for determining the required number of nomination petition signatures is
the number of qualified signers in the elective office, district or precinct on
the day the new districts or precincts are effective. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 16-535, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-535.Election marshal; appointment; powers and duties
A.The board of supervisors, at the time provided in
section 16531, shall appoint a qualified voter of the precinct as
election marshal.
B.The election marshal shall preserve order at the
polls and permit no violation of the election laws and for that purpose is
vested with powers of a constable
sheriff from the opening
of the polls until the count of the ballots is completed. The election marshal
shall also periodically measure the length of waiting times at that polling
place throughout the day, and if the waiting time is thirty minutes or more,
the marshal shall inform the officer in charge of elections and shall request
additional voting machines, voting booths and board workers, as appropriate.
The election marshal may perform the duties of any other election board member
on a relief basis. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 22-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-101.Justice precincts; formation, change or abolishment;
jurisdiction
A.The board of supervisors shall divide the county
into justice precincts and name or number them, and may change or abolish any
justice precinct or redistrict the county, but abolishment of a precinct shall
not take effect until expiration of the term of office of the justice and constable then in office. 
B.A justice of the peace shall have original
jurisdiction as provided in sections 22201 and 22-301. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 22-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-102.Officers and term of office
The officers officer of a justice precincts shall be precinct is a justice of the peace and a constable, who shall be
elected by the qualified electors of the precinct at the general election for
state and county officers for terms
a term of four years each. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Repeal
Title 22, chapter 1,
article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.40.Section 22-244, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-244.Writ of execution
A.The judgment of a justice of the peace shall be
enforced by execution or other appropriate process.
B.The execution or process shall describe the
judgment and command the sheriff or
constable to execute it according to its terms, whether the
judgment is to make a sum of money, or
to deliver personal property or possession of real property, or to do some other thing.
C.The execution or process shall be returnable in
sixty days. END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Section 22-281, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-281.Fees and deposits
A.Justices of the peace shall receive fees
established and classified as follows in civil actions:
Class Description 
Fee
A Initial case filing fee
Civil filing fees $65.00
B Subsequent
case filing fee
Civil
filing fees  defendant $35.00
C Initial
case filing fee
Forcible
entry and detainer filings $30.00
Small claims filing 23.00
D Subsequent case filing fee
Small claims answer $13.00
Forcible entry and detainer
filings  defendant 16.00
E Minimum clerk fee
Document and transcript
transfer on appeal $24.00
Certification of any
documents 24.00
Issuance of writs 24.00
Filing any paper or
performing any act for
which a fee is not
specifically prescribed 24.00
Subpoena (civil) 24.00
Research in locating a
document 24.00
Seal a court file 24.00
Reopen a sealed court file 24.00
Record duplication 24.00
F Per
page fee
Copies
of any documents per page $0.50
G Special
fees
Small claims service by
mail $8.00
B.This section does not deprive
the parties to the action of the privilege of depositing amounts with the
justice, in addition to those set forth in this section, for use in connection
with the payment of constable's and sheriff's fees
for service of process, levying of writs and other services for which fees are
otherwise provided by law.
C.Excluding the monies that are kept
by the court pursuant to subsection D of this section, justices of the peace
shall transmit monthly to the county treasurer all monies collected pursuant to
subsection A of this section. The county treasurer shall distribute or deposit
all of the monies received pursuant to this subsection as follows:
1.To the state treasurer for
deposit in the judicial collection enhancement fund established by section 12113,
in the following percentages:
(a)14.02 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of more than five
hundred thousand persons.
(b)15.58 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of five hundred
thousand persons or less.
2.To the state treasurer for
deposit in the alternative dispute resolution fund established by section 12135,
in the following percentages:
(a)1.84 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of more than five
hundred thousand persons.
(b)2.05 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of five hundred
thousand persons or less.
3.To the elected officials' retirement plan fund
established by section 38802, either of the following percentages, which
shall be distributed to the fund pursuant to section 38810:
(a)23.79 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of more than five
hundred thousand persons.
(b)15.30 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of five hundred
thousand persons or less.
4.To the county general fund,
in the following percentages:
(a)54.22 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of more than five
hundred thousand persons.
(b)60.26 per
cent percent if
the county treasurer is serving in a county with a population of five hundred
thousand persons or less.
D.In counties with a
population of more than five hundred thousand persons, 6.13 per cent percent of the
monies transmitted pursuant to subsection C of this section shall be kept and
used by the court collecting the fees in the same manner as the seven dollars
of the time payment fee prescribed by section 12116, subsection B.
E.In counties with a population of five hundred
thousand persons or less, 6.81 per cent
percent of the monies
transmitted pursuant to subsection C of this section shall be kept and used by
the court collecting the fees in the same manner as the seven dollars of the
time payment fee prescribed by section 12116, subsection B.
F.The supreme court may increase the fees
prescribed in subsection A of this section in an amount not to exceed the per cent percent of change in the average consumer
price index as published by the United States department of labor, bureau of
labor statistics between that figure for the latest calendar year and the
calendar year in which the last fee increase occurred. END_STATUTE
Sec.42.Section 26-204, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE26-204.Powers of military court; attendance of witnesses and
production of documents; process to law enforcement officers; presumption of
jurisdiction
A.A military court may:
1.Compel by subpoena, by subpoena duces tecum or by
attachment, the attendance of witnesses, both civil and military, and the
production of books, papers and documents.
2.Punish for contempt a witness or other person
appearing before the court, or any person attempting to interrupt the
proceedings thereof or impair the respect due its authority.
3.Issue, in such form as the adjutant general
prescribes, necessary processes and mandates, including writs and warrants
directed to marshals of the court, sheriffs, constables and other law enforcement
officers.
B.Commissions and subpoenas may be issued and
witnesses summoned by the president of a military court, or judge advocate, and
the commanding officer of any organization shall, upon request of the president
or judge advocate, cause such commissions or subpoenas to be served upon
members of his command.
C.Jurisdiction of a military court or board
convened as provided by this article shall be presumed and the burden of proof
is upon a person seeking to defeat the jurisdiction of the court or board in
any proceeding. END_STATUTE
Sec.43.Section 26-209, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE26-209.Commitment of accused for failure to pay fine; warrant;
length of confinement; judgment by justice of the peace based on findings of
courtmartial; execution; classification
A.If an accused fails or refuses to pay the fine
imposed by a military court within the time and manner specified in section 26208,
the president of the military court shall, within ten days after expiration of
the time within which the accused may appeal, or, if an appeal is taken, within
ten days after final determination thereof, issue a warrant of commitment in
the name of the state directed to the sheriff, and commanding him to arrest the
accused and take him to the jail of the city, town or county in which he is
found.Confinement for refusal to pay a fine shall be one day for
each ten dollars or fraction of the fine, penalty and costs.The
accused may, by order of the officer ordering the court, be released at any
time.
B.The court may, in its discretion, and within the
time prescribed by subsection A of this section, file an authenticated copy of
the findings of the courtmartial with the justice of the peace in the
precinct in which the accused resides.The justice of the peace
shall thereupon render judgment against the accused, with costs, without
issuing summons, and shall issue execution thereon directed to the sheriff or to the constable of the precinct.The
sheriff or constable shall
collect the fine and costs by execution as at law.
C.A justice of the peace who intentionally fails to
carry out the provisions of this section is guilty of a petty offense. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Section 31-143, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-143.Use of prisoners by county engineer
The county engineer shall receive and work prisoners sentenced
to hard labor who are authorized by the board of supervisors to be employed.
The engineer may exercise the powers of a constable sheriff to
transport, supervise and control available numbers of prisoners released to him
for work. END_STATUTE
Sec.45.Section 33-725, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-725.Judgment of foreclosure; contents; sale of property;
resale
A.When a mortgage or deed of trust is foreclosed,
the court shall give judgment for the entire amount determined due, and shall
direct the mortgaged property, or as much thereof as is necessary to satisfy
the judgment, to be sold.
B.Judgments for the foreclosure of mortgages and
other liens shall provide that the plaintiff recover his debt, damages and
costs, with a foreclosure of the plaintiff's lien on the property subject to
the lien, and, except in judgments against executors, administrators and
guardians, that a special execution issue to the sheriff or any constable of the county where the
property is located, directing him to seize and sell the property as under
execution, in satisfaction of the judgment.If the property cannot
be found, or if the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to satisfy the
judgment, then if so ordered by the court the sheriff shall take the money or
any balance thereof remaining unpaid out of any other property of the defendant
except as provided in sections 33729 and 33730.All
execution upon judgments for foreclosure of a mortgage or deed of trust upon
real property shall comply with section 121566.Any sale of
real property to satisfy a judgment under this section or section 33814
shall be a credit on the judgment in the amount of either the fair market value
of the real property or the sale price of the real property at sheriff's sale,
whichever is greater, in accordance with section 121566.
C.If the debt for which the lien is held is not all
due, as soon as enough of the property is sold to pay the amount due, with
costs, the sale shall cease, and afterward as often as more becomes due for
principal and interest, the court may, on motion, order more property
sold.If the property cannot be sold in portions without injury to
the parties, the whole may be ordered sold in the first instance and the entire
debt and costs paid, allowing a rebate of interest where proper. END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 33-1481, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1481.Remedy after termination
A.If the rental agreement is terminated, the
landlord may have a claim for possession of the mobile home space and for rent
and a separate claim for actual damages for breach of the rental agreement.
B.In the execution of any writ of restitution
issued pursuant to section 121178 or 121181, the landlord may provide
written instructions to the sheriff or
constable not to remove the mobile home from its space, and if
those written instructions are provided, the sheriff or constable may fully execute the writ of
restitution by removing all occupants and their possessions from the mobile
home and from the space it occupies.The mobile home shall then be
deemed abandoned and section 331478 applies and the landlord may
terminate any utility services that are provided by the landlord.An
owner of a mobile home in compliance with the provisions of subsection C of
this section may recover possession of the owner's mobile home while the title
remains in the owner's name.
C.A mobile home that is subject to a judgment for
forcible detainer may not be removed from its space until the provisions of
section 331451, subsection B have been satisfied.The
landlord may agree in writing to accept other terms in satisfaction of the
judgment.This provision shall not apply to any lienholder of record
on the date of judgment or its successors or assigns. END_STATUTE 
Sec.47.Section 33-2145, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-2145.Remedy after termination
A.If the rental agreement is terminated, the
landlord may have a claim for possession of the recreational vehicle space and
for rent and a separate claim for actual damages for breach of the rental
agreement.
B.In the execution of any writ of restitution issued
pursuant to section 121178 or 121181, the landlord may provide
written instructions to the sheriff or
constable not to remove the recreational vehicle from its space,
and if those written instructions are provided, the sheriff or constable may fully execute the writ of
restitution by removing all occupants and their possessions from the
recreational vehicle and from the space it occupies. The recreational vehicle
is deemed abandoned, and the landlord may terminate any utility services that
are provided by the landlord.An owner of a recreational vehicle in
compliance with subsection C of this section may recover possession of the
recreational vehicle while the title remains in the owner's name.
C.A recreational vehicle that is subject to a
judgment for forcible detainer may not be removed from its space until the
tenant has received from the landlord a clearance for removal that shows that
all monies due the landlord as of the date of removal have been paid or that
the landlord and tenant have otherwise agreed to the removal.The
landlord may agree in writing to accept other terms in satisfaction of the
judgment.This subsection does not apply to any lienholder of record
on the date of judgment or its successors or assigns. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Section 35-301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-301.Duties and liabilities of custodian of public monies;
violations; classification
A public officer or other person, including justices of the
peace and constables,
charged with the receipt, safekeeping, transfer or disbursement of public money
is guilty of a class 4 felony who:
1.Without authority of law, appropriates it, or any
portion thereof, to his own use, or to the use of another.
2.Knowingly loans it, or any portion thereof.
3.Knowingly fails to keep it in his possession
until disbursed or paid out by authority of law.
4.Without authority of law knowingly deposits it,
or any portion thereof, in a bank, or with a banker or other person, except on
special deposit for safekeeping.
5.Knowingly keeps a false account, or makes a false
entry or erasure in an account of, or relating to it.
6.Alters, falsifies, conceals, destroys or
obliterates such an account with an intent to defraud or deceive.
7.Knowingly refuses or omits to pay over, on
demand, public monies in his hands, upon presentation of a draft, order or
warrant drawn upon such monies by competent authority.
8.Knowingly omits or refuses to transfer the money
when a transfer is required by law.
9.Knowingly transfers the money when not authorized
or directed by law.
10.Knowingly omits or refuses to pay over to an
officer or person authorized by law to receive it, any money received by him
when a duty is imposed by law to pay over the money. END_STATUTE
Sec.49.Section 36-501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 99, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Admitting officer" means a
psychiatrist or other physician or psychiatric and mental health nurse
practitioner with experience in performing psychiatric examinations who has
been designated as an admitting officer of the evaluation agency by the person
in charge of the evaluation agency.
2."Chief medical officer" means the chief
medical officer under the supervision of the superintendent of the state
hospital.
3."Contraindicated" means that access is
reasonably likely to endanger the life or physical safety of the patient or
another person.
4."Court" means the superior court in the
county in this state in which the patient resides or was found before screening
or emergency admission under this title.
5."Danger to others" means that the
judgment of a person who has a mental disorder is so impaired that the person
is unable to understand the person's need for treatment and as a result of the
person's mental disorder the person's continued behavior can reasonably be
expected, on the basis of competent medical opinion, to result in serious
physical harm.
6."Danger to self":
(a)Means behavior that, as a result of a mental
disorder:
(i)Constitutes a danger of inflicting serious
physical harm on oneself, including attempted suicide or the serious threat
thereof, if the threat is such that, when considered in the light of its
context and in light of the individual's previous acts, it is substantially
supportive of an expectation that the threat will be carried out.
(ii)Without hospitalization will result in serious
physical harm or serious illness to the person.
(b)Does not include behavior that establishes only
the condition of persons with grave disabilities.
7."Department" means the department of
health services.
8."Deputy director" means the deputy
director of the division of behavioral health in the department of health
services.
9."Detention" means the taking into
custody of a patient or proposed patient.
10."Director" means the director of the
department.
11."Division" means the division of
behavioral health in the department.
12."Evaluation" means:
(a)A professional multidisciplinary analysis that
may include firsthand observations or remote observations by interactive
audiovisual media and that is based on data describing the person's identity,
biography and medical, psychological and social conditions carried out by a
group of persons consisting of not less than the following:
(i)Two licensed physicians, who shall be qualified
psychiatrists, if possible, or at least experienced in psychiatric matters, and
who shall examine and report their findings independently. The person against
whom a petition has been filed shall be notified that the person may select one
of the physicians. A psychiatric resident in a training program approved by
the American medical association or by the American osteopathic association may
examine the person in place of one of the psychiatrists if the resident is
supervised in the examination and preparation of the affidavit and testimony in
court by a qualified psychiatrist appointed to assist in the resident's
training, and if the supervising psychiatrist is available for discussion with
the attorneys for all parties and for court appearance and testimony if
requested by the court or any of the attorneys.
(ii)Two other individuals, one of whom, if
available, shall be a psychologist and in any event a social worker familiar
with mental health and human services that may be available placement
alternatives appropriate for treatment.An evaluation may be
conducted on an inpatient basis, an outpatient basis or a combination of both,
and every reasonable attempt shall be made to conduct the evaluation in any
language preferred by the person.
(b)A physical examination that is consistent with
the existing standards of care and that is performed by one of the evaluating
physicians or by or under the supervision of a physician who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who
is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 if the results of that examination
are reviewed or augmented by one of the evaluating physicians.
13."Evaluation agency" means a health
care agency that is licensed by the department and that has been approved
pursuant to this title, providing those services required of such agency by
this chapter.
14."Family member" means a spouse,
parent, adult child, adult sibling or other blood relative of a person
undergoing treatment or evaluation pursuant to this chapter.
15."Health care decision maker" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 122801.
16."Health care entity" means a health
care provider, the department, the Arizona health care cost containment system
administration or a regional behavioral health authority under contract with
the department.
17."Health care provider" means a health
care institution as defined in section 36401 that is licensed as a
behavioral health provider pursuant to department rules or a mental health
provider.
18."Independent evaluator" means a
licensed physician, psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner or
psychologist selected by the person to be evaluated or by such person's
attorney.
19."Informed consent" means a voluntary
decision following presentation of all facts necessary to form the basis of an
intelligent consent by the patient or guardian with no minimizing of known
dangers of any procedures.
20."Least restrictive treatment
alternative" means the treatment plan and setting that infringe in the
least possible degree with the patient's right to liberty and that are
consistent with providing needed treatment in a safe and humane manner.
21."Licensed physician" means any medical
doctor or doctor of osteopathy who is either:
(a)Licensed in this state.
(b)A fulltime hospital physician licensed in
another state and serving on the staff of a hospital operated or licensed by
the United States government.
22."Medical director of an evaluation
agency" means a psychiatrist, or other licensed physician experienced in
psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by the governing body of the
agency as the person in charge of the medical services of the agency for the
purposes of this chapter and may include the chief medical officer of the state
hospital.
23."Medical director of a mental health
treatment agency" means a psychiatrist, or other licensed physician
experienced in psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by the
governing body of the agency as the person in charge of the medical services of
the agency for the purposes of this chapter and includes the chief medical
officer of the state hospital.
24."Mental disorder" means a substantial
disorder of the person's emotional processes, thought, cognition or memory.
Mental disorder is distinguished from:
(a)Conditions that are primarily those of drug
abuse, alcoholism or intellectual disability, unless, in addition to one or
more of these conditions, the person has a mental disorder.
(b)The declining mental abilities that directly
accompany impending death.
(c)Character and personality disorders
characterized by lifelong and deeply ingrained antisocial behavior patterns,
including sexual behaviors that are abnormal and prohibited by statute unless
the behavior results from a mental disorder.
25."Mental health provider" means any
physician or provider of mental health or behavioral health services involved
in evaluating, caring for, treating or rehabilitating a patient.
26."Mental health treatment agency" means
the state hospital or a health care agency that is licensed by the department
and that provides those services that are required of the agency by this
chapter.
27."Outpatient treatment" or
"combined inpatient and outpatient treatment" means any treatment
program not requiring continuous inpatient hospitalization.
28."Outpatient treatment plan" means a
treatment plan that does not require continuous inpatient hospitalization.
29."Patient" means any person undergoing
examination, evaluation or behavioral or mental health treatment under this
chapter.
30."Peace officers" means sheriffs of
counties, constables,
marshals and policemen of cities and towns.
31."Persistent or acute disability" means
a severe mental disorder that meets all the following criteria:
(a)If not treated has a substantial probability of
causing the person to suffer or continue to suffer severe and abnormal mental,
emotional or physical harm that significantly impairs judgment, reason,
behavior or capacity to recognize reality.
(b)Substantially impairs the person's capacity to
make an informed decision regarding treatment, and this impairment causes the
person to be incapable of understanding and expressing an understanding of the
advantages and disadvantages of accepting treatment and understanding and
expressing an understanding of the alternatives to the particular treatment
offered after the advantages, disadvantages and alternatives are explained to
that person.
(c)Has a reasonable prospect of being treatable by
outpatient, inpatient or combined inpatient and outpatient treatment.
32."Persons with grave disabilities"
means a condition evidenced by behavior in which a person, as a result of a
mental disorder, is likely to come to serious physical harm or serious illness
because the person is unable to provide for the person's own basic physical
needs.
33."Prepetition screening" means the
review of each application requesting courtordered evaluation, including
an investigation of facts alleged in such application, an interview with each
applicant and an interview, if possible, with the proposed
patient.The purpose of the interview with the proposed patient is
to assess the problem, explain the application and, when indicated, attempt to
persuade the proposed patient to receive, on a voluntary basis, evaluation or
other services.
34."Prescribed form" means a form
established by a court or the rules of the division that have been approved by
the director or in accordance with the laws of this state.
35."Professional" means a physician who
is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17, a psychologist who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1 or a psychiatric and mental health nurse
practitioner who is certified pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
36."Proposed patient" means a person for
whom an application for evaluation has been made or a petition for courtordered
evaluation has been filed.
37."Psychiatric and mental health nurse
practitioner" means a registered nurse practitioner as defined in section
321601 who has completed an adult or family psychiatric and mental
health nurse practitioner program and who is certified as an adult or family
psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner by the state board of nursing.
38."Psychiatrist" means a licensed
physician who has completed three years of graduate training in psychiatry in a
program approved by the American medical association or the American
osteopathic association.
39."Psychologist" means a person who is
licensed under title 32, chapter 19.1 and who is experienced in the practice of
clinical psychology.
40."Records" means all communications
that are recorded in any form or medium and that relate to patient examination,
evaluation or behavioral or mental health treatment. Records include medical
records that are prepared by a health care provider or other providers.
Records do not include:
(a)Materials that are prepared in connection with
utilization review, peer review or quality assurance activities, including
records that a health care provider prepares pursuant to section 36441,
36445, 362402 or 362917.
(b)Recorded telephone and radio calls to and from a
publicly operated emergency dispatch office relating to requests for emergency
services or reports of suspected criminal activity.
41."Screening agency" means a health care
agency that is licensed by the department and that provides those services
required of such agency by this chapter.
42."Social worker" means a person who has
completed two years of graduate training in social work in a program approved
by the council of social work education and who has experience in mental
health.
43."State hospital" means the Arizona
state hospital.
44."Superintendent" means the
superintendent of the state hospital. END_STATUTE
Sec.50.Section 36-501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 19, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administration" means the Arizona
health care cost containment system administration.
2."Admitting officer" means a psychiatrist
or other physician or psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner with
experience in performing psychiatric examinations who has been designated as an
admitting officer of the evaluation agency by the person in charge of the
evaluation agency.
3."Chief medical officer" means the chief
medical officer under the supervision of the superintendent of the state
hospital.
4."Contraindicated" means that access is
reasonably likely to endanger the life or physical safety of the patient or
another person.
5."Court" means the superior court in the
county in this state in which the patient resides or was found before screening
or emergency admission under this title.
6."Danger to others" means that the
judgment of a person who has a mental disorder is so impaired that the person
is unable to understand the person's need for treatment and as a result of the
person's mental disorder the person's continued behavior can reasonably be
expected, on the basis of competent medical opinion, to result in serious physical
harm.
7."Danger to self":
(a)Means behavior that, as a result of a mental
disorder:
(i)Constitutes a danger of inflicting serious
physical harm on oneself, including attempted suicide or the serious threat
thereof, if the threat is such that, when considered in the light of its
context and in light of the individual's previous acts, it is substantially
supportive of an expectation that the threat will be carried out.
(ii)Without hospitalization will result in serious
physical harm or serious illness to the person.
(b)Does not include behavior that establishes only
the condition of having a grave disability.
8."Department" means the department of
health services.
9."Detention" means the taking into
custody of a patient or proposed patient.
10."Director" means the director of the
administration.
11."Evaluation" means:
(a)A professional multidisciplinary analysis that
may include firsthand observations or remote observations by interactive
audiovisual media and that is based on data describing the person's identity,
biography and medical, psychological and social conditions carried out by a
group of persons consisting of not less than the following:
(i)Two licensed physicians, who shall be qualified
psychiatrists, if possible, or at least experienced in psychiatric matters, and
who shall examine and report their findings independently. The person against
whom a petition has been filed shall be notified that the person may select one
of the physicians. A psychiatric resident in a training program approved by
the American medical association or by the American osteopathic association may
examine the person in place of one of the psychiatrists if the resident is
supervised in the examination and preparation of the affidavit and testimony in
court by a qualified psychiatrist appointed to assist in the resident's
training, and if the supervising psychiatrist is available for discussion with
the attorneys for all parties and for court appearance and testimony if
requested by the court or any of the attorneys.
(ii)Two other individuals, one of whom, if
available, shall be a psychologist and in any event a social worker familiar
with mental health and human services that may be available placement
alternatives appropriate for treatment.An evaluation may be
conducted on an inpatient basis, an outpatient basis or a combination of both,
and every reasonable attempt shall be made to conduct the evaluation in any
language preferred by the person.
(b)A physical examination that is consistent with
the existing standards of care and that is performed by one of the evaluating
physicians or by or under the supervision of a physician who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who
is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 if the results of that examination
are reviewed or augmented by one of the evaluating physicians.
12."Evaluation agency" means a health
care agency that is licensed by the department and that has been approved
pursuant to this title, providing those services required of such agency by
this chapter.
13."Family member" means a spouse,
parent, adult child, adult sibling or other blood relative of a person
undergoing treatment or evaluation pursuant to this chapter.
14."Grave disability" means a condition
evidenced by behavior in which a person, as a result of a mental disorder, is
likely to come to serious physical harm or serious illness because the person
is unable to provide for the person's own basic physical needs.
15."Health care decision maker" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 122801.
16."Health care entity" means a health
care provider, the department, the administration or a regional behavioral
health authority under contract with the administration.
17."Health care provider" means a health
care institution as defined in section 36401 that is licensed as a
behavioral health provider pursuant to department rules or a mental health
provider.
18."Independent evaluator" means a
licensed physician, psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner or
psychologist selected by the person to be evaluated or by such person's
attorney.
19."Informed consent" means a voluntary
decision following presentation of all facts necessary to form the basis of an
intelligent consent by the patient or guardian with no minimizing of known
dangers of any procedures.
20."Least restrictive treatment
alternative" means the treatment plan and setting that infringe in the
least possible degree with the patient's right to liberty and that are
consistent with providing needed treatment in a safe and humane manner.
21."Licensed physician" means any medical
doctor or doctor of osteopathy who is either:
(a)Licensed in this state.
(b)A fulltime hospital physician licensed in
another state and serving on the staff of a hospital operated or licensed by
the United States government.
22."Medical director of an evaluation
agency" means a psychiatrist, or other licensed physician experienced in
psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by the governing body of the
agency as the person in charge of the medical services of the agency for the
purposes of this chapter and may include the chief medical officer of the state
hospital.
23."Medical director of a mental health
treatment agency" means a psychiatrist, or other licensed physician
experienced in psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by the
governing body of the agency as the person in charge of the medical services of
the agency for the purposes of this chapter and includes the chief medical
officer of the state hospital.
24."Mental disorder" means a substantial
disorder of the person's emotional processes, thought, cognition or memory.
Mental disorder is distinguished from:
(a)Conditions that are primarily those of drug
abuse, alcoholism or intellectual disability, unless, in addition to one or
more of these conditions, the person has a mental disorder.
(b)The declining mental abilities that directly
accompany impending death.
(c)Character and personality disorders
characterized by lifelong and deeply ingrained antisocial behavior patterns,
including sexual behaviors that are abnormal and prohibited by statute unless
the behavior results from a mental disorder.
25."Mental health provider" means any
physician or provider of mental health or behavioral health services involved
in evaluating, caring for, treating or rehabilitating a patient.
26."Mental health treatment agency" means
the state hospital or a health care agency that is licensed by the department
and that provides those services that are required of the agency by this
chapter.
27."Outpatient treatment" or
"combined inpatient and outpatient treatment" means any treatment
program not requiring continuous inpatient hospitalization.
28."Outpatient treatment plan" means a
treatment plan that does not require continuous inpatient hospitalization.
29."Patient" means any person undergoing
examination, evaluation or behavioral or mental health treatment under this
chapter.
30."Peace officers" means sheriffs of
counties, constables,
marshals and policemen of cities and towns.
31."Persistent or acute disability" means
a severe mental disorder that meets all the following criteria:
(a)If not treated has a substantial probability of
causing the person to suffer or continue to suffer severe and abnormal mental,
emotional or physical harm that significantly impairs judgment, reason,
behavior or capacity to recognize reality.
(b)Substantially impairs the person's capacity to
make an informed decision regarding treatment, and this impairment causes the
person to be incapable of understanding and expressing an understanding of the
advantages and disadvantages of accepting treatment and understanding and
expressing an understanding of the alternatives to the particular treatment
offered after the advantages, disadvantages and alternatives are explained to
that person.
(c)Has a reasonable prospect of being treatable by
outpatient, inpatient or combined inpatient and outpatient treatment.
32."Prepetition screening" means the
review of each application requesting courtordered evaluation, including
an investigation of facts alleged in such application, an interview with each
applicant and an interview, if possible, with the proposed
patient.The purpose of the interview with the proposed patient is
to assess the problem, explain the application and, when indicated, attempt to
persuade the proposed patient to receive, on a voluntary basis, evaluation or
other services.
33."Prescribed form" means a form established
by a court or the rules of the administration in accordance with the laws of
this state.
34."Professional" means a physician who
is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17, a psychologist who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1 or a psychiatric and mental health
nurse practitioner who is certified pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
35."Proposed patient" means a person for
whom an application for evaluation has been made or a petition for courtordered
evaluation has been filed.
36."Psychiatric and mental health nurse
practitioner" means a registered nurse practitioner as defined in section
321601 who has completed an adult or family psychiatric and mental
health nurse practitioner program and who is certified as an adult or family
psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner by the state board of nursing.
37."Psychiatrist" means a licensed
physician who has completed three years of graduate training in psychiatry in a
program approved by the American medical association or the American
osteopathic association.
38."Psychologist" means a person who is
licensed under title 32, chapter 19.1 and who is experienced in the practice of
clinical psychology.
39."Records" means all communications
that are recorded in any form or medium and that relate to patient examination,
evaluation or behavioral or mental health treatment. Records include medical
records that are prepared by a health care provider or other providers.
Records do not include:
(a)Materials that are prepared in connection with
utilization review, peer review or quality assurance activities, including
records that a health care provider prepares pursuant to section 36441,
36445, 362402 or 362917.
(b)Recorded telephone and radio calls to and from a
publicly operated emergency dispatch office relating to requests for emergency
services or reports of suspected criminal activity.
40."Regional behavioral health authority"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 363401.
41."Screening agency" means a health care
agency that is licensed by the department and that provides those services
required of such agency by this chapter.
42."Social worker" means a person who has
completed two years of graduate training in social work in a program approved
by the council of social work education and who has experience in mental
health.
43."State hospital" means the Arizona
state hospital.
44."Superintendent" means the
superintendent of the state hospital. END_STATUTE
Sec.51.Section 36-1603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-1603.Permit for public display
A.Each governing body may adopt reasonable rules
and regulations for granting permits for supervised public displays of
fireworks within its jurisdiction, by municipalities, fair associations,
amusement parks and other organizations and groups.
B.Application for a permit shall be made in writing
not less than five days prior to the date of the display.Every
display shall be handled by a competent operator, and shall be of a character
and located, discharged and fired so that it will not be hazardous to property
or endanger any person.Before a permit is granted, the operator,
location and handling of the display shall be approved, after investigation, by
the fire chief of the city or town or the sheriff of the county as is
appropriate.After a permit is granted, the sale, possession, use
and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose
only.No permit is transferable or assignable.
C.If a community, organization or group authorized
under this article to obtain a permit for a public display of fireworks desires
a permit for a locality more than fifty miles from the county seat and not
within the limits of an incorporated city or town, application may be made to
the justice of the peace of the precinct in which that locality is
situated.The justice may issue the permit, subject to the conditions
prescribed by this article, in the same manner as the board of
supervisors.The constable
sheriff shall make the
prescribed investigation.The justice of the peace shall promptly
report to the board of supervisors any permit issued by him pursuant to this
subsection, and shall transmit the bond of the permittee to the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.52.Section 37-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-102.State land department; powers and duties
A.The state land department shall administer all
laws relating to lands owned by, belonging to and under the control of the
state.
B.The department shall have charge and control of
all lands owned by the state, and timber, stone, gravel and other products of
such lands, except lands under the specific use and control of state
institutions and the products of such lands.
C.The department, in the name of the state, may
commence, prosecute and defend all actions and proceedings to protect the
interest of the state in lands within the state or the proceeds
thereof.Actions shall be commenced and prosecuted at the request of
the department by the attorney general, a county attorney or a special counsel
under the direction of the attorney general.
D.The department shall be the official
representative of the state in any communication between the state and the
United States government in all matters respecting state lands or any interest
of the state in or to the public lands within the state.
E.The summons in any action against the state
respecting any lands of the state or the products of such lands and all notices
concerning such lands or products shall be served on the commissioner.
Summonses, warrants or legal notices served on behalf of the department may be
served by the commissioner or the commissioner's deputy, or by the sheriff or a constable of any county of the state.
F.The department shall maintain as a public record
in each of its offices a public docket and index of all matters before the
department that may be subject to appeal to the board of appeals or to the
courts and all sale, exchange and lease transactions subject to bidding by the
public. The department shall list a matter on the public docket immediately
after an application or other request for department action is received by the
department.The department shall include in the public docket every
formal action and decision affecting each matter in question.The
department shall establish by rule a means by which any person may obtain a
copy of the public docket at the current copying cost.
G.The department shall reappraise or update its
original appraisal of property to be leased, exchanged or sold if the board of
appeals' approval of the lease or sale occurred more than one hundred eighty
days before the auction.
H.To the extent possible, the state land department
shall:
1.Prepare maps of the ancillary military facilities
described in section 288461, paragraph 7, subdivisions (b) and (c).
2.Make a map of the ancillary military facility
described in section 288461, paragraph 7, subdivision (a) available to
the public in printed or electronic format and provide the map in printed or
electronic format to the state real estate department.
3.On or before December 25, 2008 and on receipt of
proper information from the military installation commander with responsibility
for the military electronics range, prepare a map of the military electronics
range as defined in section 9-500.28 and make that map available to the public
in printed or electronic format and provide the map in printed or electronic
format to the state real estate department. Within ninety days of receipt of
notice of any change in the boundaries of the military electronics range from
the military installation commander, the state land department shall revise its
map and provide the map to the public and to the state real estate department.
I.The state land department shall provide each map
and the legal description of the boundaries of each ancillary military facility
described in section 288461, paragraph 7 in electronic format to the
state real estate department. Each map prepared by the state land department
pursuant to this section shall:
1.Describe the ancillary military facility, the
territory in the vicinity of the ancillary military facility and the high noise
and accident potential zone, accident potential zone one and accident potential
zone two associated with the ancillary military facility.
2.Be submitted to the county in which the ancillary
military facility is located.
3.Be made available to the public.
J.The state land department shall prepare a
military training route map. The map shall contain military training route
numbers in this state that are used by various United States armed forces. The
map shall be dated.
K.When preparing the military training route map,
the state land department shall use information contained in the most current
department of defense publication that is entitled "area planning military
training routes for North and South America".
L.The military training route map shall be made
available to the public.
M.Within ninety days after the department is
notified of a change of a military training route in this state, the department
shall prepare a revised military training route map. The map shall be dated
and contain a statement that the map supersedes all previously dated maps. The
state land department shall send the revised map to the state real estate department
electronically and shall also send an accompanying letter specifying the
military training route changes. The state land department shall send the
revised map and an accompanying letter specifying the military training route
changes to the municipalities affected by the changes and to all counties.
N.The department shall submit the military training
route map prepared pursuant to this section to the counties in either an
electronic or a printed format. The format shall be determined by the receiving
county.
O.The state land department shall provide the legal
description of the boundaries of the military training routes as delineated in
the military training route map to the state real estate department in
electronic format.
P.The state land department shall prepare a
military restricted airspace map. The map shall contain military restricted
airspace in this state that is used by various United States armed forces. The
map shall be dated.
Q.When preparing the military restricted airspace
map, the state land department shall use information contained in the most
current department of transportation publication that is entitled
"aeronautical chart".
R.The military restricted airspace map shall be
made available in printed or electronic format to the public at the state land
department and at the state real estate department.
S.Within ninety days after the department is
notified of a change of military restricted airspace in this state, the
department shall prepare a revised military restricted airspace map. The map
shall be dated and contain a statement that the map supersedes all previously
dated maps. The state land department shall send the revised map to the state
real estate department electronically and shall also send an accompanying
letter specifying the military restricted airspace changes.The
state land department shall send the revised map and an accompanying letter
specifying the military restricted airspace changes to the municipalities
affected by the changes and to all counties.
T.The department shall submit the military
restricted airspace map prepared pursuant to this section to the counties in
either an electronic or a printed format. The format shall be determined by
the receiving county.
U.The state land department shall provide the legal
description of the boundaries of the military restricted airspace as delineated
in the military restricted airspace map to the state real estate department in
electronic format.
V.The department may accept title to and manage
real estate, property rights and related infrastructure acquired pursuant to
section 26262, subsection K for preserving or enhancing military
installations in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.53.Section 38-364, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-364.Summary proceedings to obtain property and records of
office
If any person refuses or neglects to deliver to the lawful
incumbent any property or records pertaining to the office or the duties of the
office, the incumbent may apply by petition to the superior court of the county
in which the person resides, and the court shall proceed in a summary manner,
after notice to the adverse party, to hear the petition and enter judgment
thereon.The execution of the judgment and the delivery of the books
and papers may be enforced by attachment, and also by a warrant directed to the
sheriff or a constable of
the county, commanding him to search for the books and papers, and to take and
deliver them to the petitioner. END_STATUTE
Sec.54.Section 38-412, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-412.Posting schedule of fees
Recorders, clerks of the superior courts, sheriffs, justices of
the peace, constables and
notaries public shall keep posted at all times in a conspicuous place in their
respective offices a complete list of the fees they are allowed to charge. END_STATUTE
Sec.55.Section 41-1823, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1823.Adoption of minimum qualifications; certification required
A.No minimum qualifications for law enforcement
officers adopted pursuant to this article shall be effective until six months
after they have been filed with the secretary of state pursuant to section 411031.
B.Except for agency heads duly elected as required
by the constitution and persons given the authority of a peace officer pursuant
to section 8205, 11572, 12253,
or 13916 or 22-131,
no person may exercise the authority or perform the duties of a peace officer
unless he the person is certified by the board pursuant
to section 411822, subsection A, paragraph 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.56.Effective date
Section 36-501, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 195, section 19 and this act, is effective from and after June
30,2016.
Sec.57.Transfer of monies
All unexpended and unencumbered monies remaining in the
constable ethics standards and training fund established by section 22-138,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as repealed by this act, are transferred to the state
general fund on the effective date of this act.

