







REFERENCE TITLE: regional transportation authority;
  membership; election







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2373









Introduced by
Representatives
  Shope: Finchem, Senator Smith





AN ACT

amending sections
48-5302, 48-5303, 48-5308, 48-5309 and 48-5314, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to regional transportation authorities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-5302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5302.Regional transportation authority; establishment
A.A regional transportation authority is
established in a county with a population of more than four hundred thousand
but less than one million two hundred thousand persons.The board of
supervisors of a county with a population of four hundred thousand or fewer
persons may establish a regional transportation authority in the county.
B.An authority is a public, political, tax levying
public improvement and taxing subdivision of this state and a municipal
corporation to the extent of the powers and privileges conferred by this
chapter or granted generally by the constitution and statutes of this state,
including immunity of its property and the interest income and gain on its
bonds from taxation.
C.The membership of the authority consists of each
municipality in the county, the county and any other members of the regional
council of governments that are from
the county that established the authority.The
authority may operate in all areas of the county in which it is organized.
D.The executive director of the regional council of
governments acts as the executive director of the authority and serves in that
specific role until replaced at the discretion of the board of the regional council of governments transportation authority. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 48-5303, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5303.Board of directors; executive director
A. The government of the authority is vested in a
board of directors composed of the members of the regional council of
governments that are from the county
that established the authority, and each member of the board of directors is
vested with one vote each when determining transportation policy
as the regional transportation authority.
B.The members of the board shall:
1.Appoint a chairman from among the members at the
first official meeting of the board.
2.By rule determine its officers, terms and
procedures of appointment. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 48-5308, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5308.Distribution from regional transportation fund
A.All monies in the bond account of the regional
transportation fund shall be held in trust for the owners of the
bonds.Monies in the bond account:
1.Shall be paid out to paying agents or directly to
the owners of the bonds pursuant to the resolution or resolutions of the board
authorizing the issuance of the bonds.
2.May be used to pay bond related expenses or
recurring expenses pertaining to administration and payment of the bonds.
B.Monies in the bond proceeds account of the
regional transportation fund may be obligated or spent as directed by the board
for the purposes provided by subsection C of this section.
C.Except as provided
in subsection D of this section, monies in the construction account of the
regional transportation fund shall be spent, pledged or accumulated for the
design, rightofway purchase, construction, operation, maintenance
and contiguous open space preservation purchase compatible with local
environmental ordinance of, and within the expenditure limits for, each element
of the regional transportation plan.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, from the monies deposited
in the construction account of the regional transportation fund in each fiscal
year, the board shall distribute:
1.To each municipality, excluding the municipality
that has the largest population in the county, the greater amount of one per cent percent of the revenues collected from the
transportation excise tax authorized pursuant to section 426106 or three
hundred thousand dollars, to be used for purposes consistent with subsection C
of this section.
2.An amount of not more than the greater of three hundred thousand dollars or one percent of the revenues collected from
the transportation excise tax authorized pursuant to section 42-6106 to
the regional council of governments to hire professional planning, technical
and administrative staff required to accomplish plan development for the
authority pursuant to section 485309 and to perform the responsibilities
as the authority may require.
E.The three hundred thousand dollar distributions
prescribed by subsection D of this section are subject to:
1.Proration for any fiscal year in which a
transportation excise tax authorized pursuant to section 426106 is
collected for less than a full fiscal year.
2.Adjustment by the annual percentage change for
the previous calendar year in the GDP price deflator, as defined in section 41563,
for each fiscal year after the first full fiscal year in which the
transportation excise tax is collected.
F.Beginning with the first fiscal year following
voter approval of the regional transportation plan, monies appropriated for
each of the following purposes, if approved by a majority of the qualified
electors voting at a special or general election, by each municipality or the
county in the authority shall not be less than the total amount of general
monies spent for those purposes in that municipality or county for fiscal year
20032004 adjusted by the annual percentage change for the previous
calendar year in the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563:
1.Roadway improvements, including controlled access
highways, parkways and controlled access arterials, arterial upgrades and
related grade separations.
2.Transit improvements for buses, including
expansion of the bus fleet and its associated maintenance facility, expansion
of express routes and associated connecting terminals, ridesharing, van pool
fleet acquisition, including special projects for persons with disabilities and
elderly individuals, and park and ride lots.
3.An express and light rail system.
4.Bicycle projects, including striped lanes on
arterials, neighborhood bike routes and planning of bikeways focused on major
regional activity center destinations.
5.Pedestrian projects on arterial and collector
streets, neighborhood walkways and walkways focused on major regional activity
center destinations.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 48-5309, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5309.Regional transportation plan; definitions
A.The authority shall develop a twenty year
regional transportation plan that is subject to approval by the qualified
electors of the county and financed by a transportation excise tax approved
pursuant to section 426106 and bonds issued pursuant to article 2 of
this chapter.The regional transportation plan:
1.May give priority to multimodal transportation
operations and improvements along corridors where seventyfive per cent percent or more of the adjacent census tracts
had a population density of at least three thousand persons per square mile
according to the most recent United States decennial census.
2.Shall include a public transportation component.
3.May, among other things:
(a)Define and identify regional transportation
corridors.
(b)Define the transportation problems, goals and
needs for each corridor.
(c)Determine environmental, economic, energy and
social policies to guide transportation investment decisions.
(d)Determine the impact of the plan on air quality,
with one of the goals of the plan being the improvement of air quality.
(e)Order the priority of regional transportation
corridors for development.
(f)Determine the mix of alternative transportation
modes appropriate for development consistent with the transportation goals and
needs for each corridor.The mix may include sidewalks, rail
service, buses, vans, paratransit, park and ride lots, bicycle
facilities and any other facility or service reasonably related to
transportation.
(g)Select appropriate public transportation
technology.
(h)Determine the capacity for exclusive public
transportation technologies.
(i)Determine operating performance criteria and
costs for public transportation systems.
(j)Locate routes and access points to the public
transportation systems.
(k)Determine the ridership of public transportation
systems.
(l)Determine the need for landscape buffers, noise
barriers, pedestrian bypasses, multiuse paths and other environmental impact
mitigation measures relating to the regional transportation plan.
B.The regional transportation plan may not be
amended to add or delete an element or substantially change an element without
prior approval of the electorate at a general or special election pursuant to
subsection D of this section. The prior approval of the electorate required by
this subsection is waived if a political subdivision causing changes within its
jurisdiction to the regional transportation plan incurs the incremental costs
of implementing the proposed changes.
C.The proposition for a revised regional
transportation plan considered at an election held pursuant to subsection D of
this section shall adhere to the format applicable to the ballot proposition
approved by the qualified electors voting on the initial regional transportation
plan.
D.If a substantial change occurs, the board of
directors shall request the county board of supervisors to provide a ballot
proposition for consideration of a revised regional transportation plan on or
before the date of the next general election. The board of
supervisors shall provide the proposition at the next general election. If a
majority of the qualified electors voting on the issue does not approve a
revised regional transportation plan, the
board of directors shall continue implementation of the previously approved
regional transportation plan and may continue to make expenditures
authorized pursuant to section 485308, subsection C, except those obligated as of the date of the general
election, are prohibited
but may not make expenditures in excess of revenues received pursuant to
section 48-5307, subsection A that are available for those purposes.
E.For the purposes of this section: ,

1."Present
worth" means the amount calculated by using the preceding fiveyear
average of the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 to
discount the respective series of estimated revenues and expenditures.
2."Substantial
change" means a change that, based on data in the transportation
improvement program developed pursuant to section 485304, paragraph 3,
results in one or more of the following conditions:
1.(a)A present worth of estimated
expenditures required to complete all elements of the regional transportation
plan that exceeds the greater of:
(i)The present worth
of estimated revenues available to the regional transportation fund during the
comparable period by ten per cent
percent or more.
(ii)The original ESTIMATED revenue
amount that was presented to the voters, except that estimated
revenues from bond proceeds, if any, shall not exceed the bond capacity, less
associated expenses, supported by estimates of unencumbered revenues for the
initial ten years of authorization for the transportation excise
tax.The preceding five year
average of the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 shall be
used to discount the respective series of estimated revenues and expenditures
to a present worth.
2.(b)An estimated cost to complete one
or more elements of the regional transportation plan that exceeds the
expenditure limitations of the plan as adjusted by the GDP price deflator as
defined in section 41563 by the following or greater percentages:
(a)(i)Ten per cent percent for a single element of the plan.
(b)(ii)Fifteen per cent percent for any two elements of the plan.
(c)(iii)Twenty per cent percent for three or more elements of the plan.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 48-5314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5314.Election on regional transportation plan and excise tax
A.The board shall:
1.Adopt a twenty
year twenty-year comprehensive
multimodal regional transportation plan consistent with the requirements of
this article, including transportation corridors by priority and a schedule
indicating the dates that construction will begin for projects contained in the
plan.
2.Request by resolution certified to the county
board of supervisors that the issue of levying a transportation excise tax
pursuant to section 426106 be submitted to the qualified electors at a
countywide special election or placed on the ballot at a countywide general
election. Within six months after receiving a certified copy of the
resolution, the county board of supervisors shall either call a special
election or place the issue on the ballot of a general election, subject to the
requirements of this section.
B.The election ballot shall include a description
of each transportation element of the regional transportation plan including a
separate percentage share and dollar share of the transportation excise tax
revenues allocated to each element.
C.In addition to any other requirements prescribed
by law, the county board of supervisors shall prepare and print a publicity
pamphlet concerning the ballot question and mail one copy of the pamphlet to
each household containing a registered voter in the county. The mailings may
be made over a period of days but shall be mailed for delivery before the
earliest date registered voters may receive early ballots for the election.
The publicity pamphlet shall contain:
1.The date of the election.
2.The individual household's polling place and the
time the polls will be open.
3.A summary of the principal provisions of the issue
presented to the voters, including the rate of the transportation excise tax,
the number of years the tax will be in effect and the projected annual and
cumulative amount of revenues to be raised.
4.A statement describing the purposes for which the
transportation excise tax monies may be spent as provided by law, including:
(a)A summary of the regional transportation plan
adopted pursuant to section 485309 and subsection A of this section,
including a description of each transportation element of the regional
transportation plan.
(b)A map of proposed routes and transportation
corridors of all major transportation projects and public transportation
systems.
(c)The percentage share and dollar amount of
transportation excise tax revenues, together with other identified revenues,
dedicated for each transportation element, transportation project and public
transportation system, and conditions and limitations on the use of the money.
5.The form of the ballot.
6.Any arguments for or against the ballot measure.
Affirmative arguments, arranged in the order in which the elections director
received them, shall be placed before the negative arguments, also arranged in
the order in which they were received.
D.Not later than ninety days before the date of the
election, a person may file with the county elections director an argument, not
more than three hundred words in length, advocating or opposing the ballot
measure, subject to the following requirements:
1.The person who files the argument shall also pay
to the elections director a publication fee prescribed by the board of
supervisors. Payment of the fee required by this paragraph, or reimbursement
of the payor, constitutes sponsorship of the argument.
2.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
individuals, the argument shall be signed by each sponsoring individual.
3.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
organizations, the argument shall be signed by two executive officers of each
organization.
4.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
political committees, the argument shall be signed by each committee's
chairperson or treasurer.
5.The names of persons who have signed arguments
and the names of sponsoring organizations shall appear with the argument in the
pamphlet. The person or persons signing the argument shall also give their
residence or post office address and a telephone number, which shall not appear
in the pamphlet.
E.In addition to any other ballot requirements
prescribed by law, the elections director shall cause the following to be
printed on the official ballot:
1.The designation of the measure as follows:
"Relating to county transportation excise (sales) taxes".
2.Instructions directing the voter to the full text
of the official and descriptive titles containing the summary as printed in the
sample ballot and posted in the polling place. The ballot may include the
summary of the regional transportation plan.
3.The questions
submitted to the voters as follows:
I.Do you approve
the regional transportation plan for ________________
county?YES________NO_________
(A"YES"
vote indicates your approval of the proposed regional transportation plan as
developed by the regional transportation authority and described in the
election materials.)
(A"NO" vote indicates
your disapproval of the proposed regional transportation plan.)
II.Do you favor the levy of a transaction
privilege (sales) tax for regional transportation purposes in ____________
county? YES__________NO__________
(A"YES" vote has the
effect of imposing a transaction privilege (sales) tax in __________ county for
________ years to provide funding for the transportation projects contained in
the regional transportation plan.)
(A"NO" vote has the
effect of rejecting the transaction privilege (sales) tax for transportation
purposes in __________ county.)
F.For either
ballot question I or II to
be approved and implemented,
both the proposed regional transportation plan and the proposed transaction
privilege tax must be approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting
on the measure.If either
ballot question I or II
fails to be approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting on the
measure, both measures fail. If ballot question I is approved by a
majority of the qualified electors voting on the measure and ballot question II
fails to be approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting on the
measure, the proposed regional transportation plan is approved without the
proposed transaction privilege tax.Not later than five years after
voter approval of the regional transportation plan, the board may submit to the
voters a subsequent transaction privilege tax measure to fund the previously
approved regional transportation plan, and if approved by a majority of the
qualified electors voting on the measure, both the approved regional
transportation plan and the approved transaction privilege tax may be
implemented.
G.Except as otherwise provided by this section, the
election under this section shall be conducted as nearly as practicable in the
manner prescribed for general elections in title 16.
H.The county election officer shall account for
costs specifically incurred with respect to the ballot issue under this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to from and after June 30, 2015.

