







REFERENCE TITLE: opioid antagonists;
  prescription; dispensing; administration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2355









Introduced by
Representatives
  Carter, Alston, Borrelli, Cobb, Coleman, Finchem, Leach, Mach, Meyer, Rios,
  Senators Cajero Bedford, Hobbs: Representatives Allen J, Boyer, Brophy McGee,
  Campbell, Fann, Fernandez, Friese, Larkin, Lawrence, Livingston, McCune
  Davis, Mesnard, Shope, Townsend, Weninger





AN ACT

Amending sections
321401, 321854 and 321901.01, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending title 32, chapter 18, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 32-1979; amending section 36-2228, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
title 36, chapter 21.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 4; relating
to opioid antagonists.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Active license" means a valid and
existing license to practice medicine.
2."Adequate records" means legible
medical records, produced by hand or electronically, containing, at a minimum,
sufficient information to identify the patient, support the diagnosis, justify
the treatment, accurately document the results, indicate advice and cautionary
warnings provided to the patient and provide sufficient information for another
practitioner to assume continuity of the patient's care at any point in the
course of treatment.
3."Advisory letter" means a
nondisciplinary letter to notify a licensee that either:
(a)While there is insufficient evidence to support
disciplinary action, the board believes that continuation of the activities
that led to the investigation may result in further board action against the
licensee.
(b)The violation is a minor or technical violation
that is not of sufficient merit to warrant disciplinary action.
(c)While the licensee has demonstrated substantial
compliance through rehabilitation or remediation that has mitigated the need
for disciplinary action, the board believes that repetition of the activities
that led to the investigation may result in further board action against the
licensee.
4."Approved hospital internship, residency or
clinical fellowship program" means a program at a hospital that at the
time the training occurred was legally incorporated and that had a program that
was approved for internship, fellowship or residency training by the
accreditation council for graduate medical education, the association of
American medical colleges, the royal college of physicians and surgeons of Canada
or any similar body in the United States or Canada approved by the board whose
function is that of approving hospitals for internship, fellowship or residency
training.
5."Approved school of medicine" means any
school or college offering a course of study that, on successful completion,
results in the degree of doctor of medicine and whose course of study has been
approved or accredited by an educational or professional association,
recognized by the board, including the association of American medical
colleges, the association of Canadian medical colleges or the American medical
association.
6."Board" means the Arizona medical
board.
7."Completed application" means that the
applicant has supplied all required fees, information and correspondence
requested by the board on forms and in a manner acceptable to the board.
8."Direct supervision" means that a
physician, physician assistant licensed pursuant to chapter 25 of this title or
nurse practitioner certified pursuant to chapter 15 of this title is within the
same room or office suite as the medical assistant in order to be available for
consultation regarding those tasks the medical assistant performs pursuant to
section 321456.
9."Dispense" means the delivery by a
doctor of medicine of a prescription drug or device to a patient, except for
samples packaged for individual use by licensed manufacturers or repackagers of
drugs, and includes the prescribing, administering, packaging, labeling and
security necessary to prepare and safeguard the drug or device for delivery.
10."Doctor of medicine" means a natural
person holding a license, registration or permit to practice medicine pursuant
to this chapter.
11."Fulltime faculty member" means
a physician who is employed
full time as a faculty member while holding the academic position of assistant
professor or a higher position at an approved school of medicine.
12."Health care institution" means any
facility as defined in section 36401, any person authorized to transact
disability insurance, as defined in title 20, chapter 6, article 4 or 5, any
person who is issued a certificate of authority pursuant to title 20, chapter
4, article 9 or any other partnership, association or corporation that provides
health care to consumers.
13."Immediate family" means the spouse,
natural or adopted children, father, mother, brothers and sisters of the doctor
and the natural or adopted children, father, mother, brothers and sisters of
the doctor's spouse.
14."Letter of reprimand" means a
disciplinary letter that is issued by the board and that informs the physician
that the physician's conduct violates state or federal law and may require the
board to monitor the physician.
15."Limit" means taking a nondisciplinary
action that alters the physician's practice or professional activities if the
board determines that there is evidence that the physician is or may be
mentally or physically unable to safely engage in the practice of medicine.
16."Medical assistant" means an
unlicensed person who meets the requirements of section 321456, has
completed an education program approved by the board, assists in a medical
practice under the supervision of a doctor of medicine, physician assistant or
nurse practitioner and performs delegated procedures commensurate with the
assistant's education and training but does not diagnose, interpret, design or
modify established treatment programs or perform any functions that would
violate any statute applicable to the practice of medicine.
17."Medical peer review" means:
(a)The participation by a doctor of medicine in the
review and evaluation of the medical management of a patient and the use of
resources for patient care.
(b)Activities relating to a health care
institution's decision to grant or continue privileges to practice at that
institution.
18."Medically incompetent" means a person
who the board determines is incompetent based on a variety of factors,
including:
(a)A lack of sufficient medical knowledge or
skills, or both, to a degree likely to endanger the health of patients.
(b)When considered with other indications of
medical incompetence, failing to obtain a scaled score of at least seventyfive
percent on the written special purpose licensing examination.
19."Medicine" means allopathic medicine
as practiced by the recipient of a degree of doctor of medicine.
20."Office based surgery" means a medical
procedure conducted in a physician's office or other outpatient setting that is
not part of a licensed hospital or licensed ambulatory surgical center.
21."Physician" means a doctor of medicine
who is licensed pursuant
to this chapter.
22."Practice of medicine" means the
diagnosis, the treatment or the correction of or the attempt or the claim to be
able to diagnose, treat or correct any and all human diseases, injuries,
ailments, infirmities, or deformities, physical or
mental, real or imaginary, by any means, methods, devices or instrumentalities,
except as the same may be among the acts or persons not affected by this
chapter. The practice of medicine includes the practice of medicine alone or
the practice of surgery alone, or both.
23."Restrict" means taking a disciplinary
action that alters the physician's practice or professional activities if the
board determines that there is evidence that the physician is or may be
medically incompetent or guilty of unprofessional conduct.
24."Special purpose licensing
examination" means an examination that
is developed by the national board of medical examiners on behalf
of the federation of state medical boards for use by state licensing boards to
test the basic medical competence of physicians who are applying for licensure
and who have been in practice for a considerable period of time in another
jurisdiction and to determine the competence of a physician who is under investigation by a state
licensing board.
25."Teaching hospital's accredited graduate
medical education program" means that the hospital is incorporated and has
an internship, fellowship or residency training program that is accredited by the
accreditation council for graduate medical education, the American medical
association, the association of American medical colleges, the royal college of
physicians and surgeons of Canada or a similar body in the United States or
Canada that is approved
by the board and whose
function is that of approving hospitals for internship, fellowship or residency
training.
26."Teaching license" means a valid
license to practice medicine as a fulltime faculty member of an approved
school of medicine or a teaching hospital's accredited graduate medical
education program.
27."Unprofessional conduct" includes the
following, whether occurring in this state or elsewhere:
(a)Violating any federal or state laws, rules or
regulations applicable to the practice of medicine.
(b)Intentionally disclosing a professional secret
or intentionally disclosing a privileged communication except as either act may
otherwise be required by law.
(c)False, fraudulent, deceptive or misleading
advertising by a doctor of medicine or the doctor's staff, employer or
representative.
(d)Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. In either case,
conviction by any court of competent jurisdiction or a plea of no contest is
conclusive evidence of the commission.
(e)Failing or refusing to maintain adequate records
on a patient.
(f)Habitual intemperance in the use of alcohol or
habitual substance abuse.
(g)Using controlled substances except if prescribed
by another physician for use during a prescribed course of treatment.
(h)Prescribing or dispensing controlled substances
to members of the physician's immediate family.
(i)Prescribing, dispensing or administering
schedule II controlled substances as defined in section 362513 including
amphetamines and similar schedule II sympathomimetic drugs in the treatment of
exogenous obesity for a period in excess of thirty days in any one year, or the
nontherapeutic use of injectable amphetamines.
(j)Prescribing, dispensing or administering any
controlled substance or prescriptiononly drug for other than accepted
therapeutic purposes.
(k)Signing a blank, undated or predated
prescription form.
(l)Conduct that the board determines is gross
malpractice, repeated malpractice or any malpractice resulting in the death of
a patient.
(m)Representing that a manifestly incurable disease
or infirmity can be permanently cured, or that any disease, ailment or
infirmity can be cured by a secret method, procedure, treatment, medicine or
device, if this is not true.
(n)Refusing to divulge to the board on demand the
means, method, procedure, modality of treatment or medicine used in the
treatment of a disease, injury, ailment or infirmity.
(o)Action that is taken against a doctor of medicine
by another licensing or regulatory jurisdiction due to that doctor's mental or
physical inability to engage safely in the practice of medicine or the doctor's
medical incompetence or for unprofessional conduct as defined by that
jurisdiction and that corresponds directly or indirectly to an act of
unprofessional conduct prescribed by this paragraph. The action taken may
include refusing, denying, revoking or suspending a license by that
jurisdiction or a surrendering of a license to that jurisdiction, otherwise
limiting, restricting or monitoring a licensee by that jurisdiction or placing
a licensee on probation by that jurisdiction.
(p)Sanctions imposed by an agency of the federal
government, including restricting, suspending, limiting or removing a person
from the practice of medicine or restricting that person's ability to obtain
financial remuneration.
(q)Any conduct or practice that is or might be
harmful or dangerous to the health of the patient or the public.
(r)Violating a formal order, probation, consent
agreement or stipulation issued or entered into by the board or its executive
director under this chapter.
(s)Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting in or abetting the violation of or conspiring to violate
any provision of this chapter.
(t)Knowingly making any false or fraudulent
statement, written or oral, in connection with the practice of medicine or if
applying for privileges or renewing an application for privileges at a health
care institution.
(u)Charging a fee for services not rendered or
dividing a professional fee for patient referrals among health care providers
or health care institutions or between these providers and institutions or a
contractual arrangement that has the same effect. This subdivision does not
apply to payments from a medical researcher to a physician in connection with
identifying and monitoring patients for a clinical trial regulated by the
United States food and drug administration.
(v)Obtaining a fee by fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation.
(w)Charging or collecting a clearly excessive fee.
In determining if whether a fee is clearly
excessive, the board shall consider the fee or range of fees customarily
charged in the this state for similar
services in light of modifying factors such as the time required, the
complexity of the service and the skill requisite to perform the service
properly. This subdivision does not apply if there is a clear written contract
for a fixed fee between the physician and the patient that has been entered
into before the provision of the service.
(x)Fetal experiments conducted in violation of
section 362302.
(y)The use of experimental forms of diagnosis and
treatment without adequate informed patient consent, and without conforming to
generally accepted experimental criteria, including protocols, detailed
records, periodic analysis of results and periodic review by a medical peer
review committee as approved by the federal United States food and drug
administration or its successor agency.
(z)Engaging in sexual conduct with a current
patient or with a former patient within six months after the last medical
consultation unless the patient was the licensee's spouse at the time of the
contact or, immediately preceding the physicianpatient relationship, was
in a dating or engagement relationship with the licensee.For the
purposes of this subdivision, "sexual conduct" includes:
(i)Engaging in or soliciting sexual relationships,
whether consensual or nonconsensual.
(ii)Making sexual advances, requesting sexual
favors or engaging in any other verbal conduct or physical contact of a sexual
nature.
(iii)Intentionally viewing a completely or
partially disrobed patient in the course of treatment if the viewing is not
related to patient diagnosis or treatment under current practice standards.
(aa)Procuring or attempting to procure a license to
practice medicine or a license renewal by fraud, by misrepresentation or by
knowingly taking advantage of the mistake of another person or an agency.
(bb)Representing or claiming to be a medical
specialist if this is not true.
(cc)Maintaining a professional connection with or
lending one's name to enhance or continue the activities of an illegal
practitioner of medicine.
(dd)Failing to furnish information in a timely
manner to the board or the board's investigators or representatives if legally
requested by the board.
(ee)Failing to allow properly authorized board
personnel on demand to examine and have access to documents, reports and records
maintained by the physician that relate to the physician's medical practice or
medically related activities.
(ff)Knowingly failing to disclose to a patient on a
form that is prescribed by the board and that is dated and signed by the
patient or guardian acknowledging that the patient or guardian has read and
understands that the doctor has a direct financial interest in a separate
diagnostic or treatment agency or in nonroutine goods or services that the
patient is being prescribed and
if the prescribed treatment, goods or services are available on a competitive
basis. This subdivision does not apply to a referral by one doctor of medicine
to another doctor of medicine within a group of doctors of medicine practicing
together.
(gg)Using chelation therapy in the treatment of
arteriosclerosis or as any other form of therapy, with the exception of
treatment of heavy metal poisoning, without:
(i)Adequate informed patient consent.
(ii)Conforming to generally accepted experimental
criteria, including protocols, detailed records, periodic analysis of results
and periodic review by a medical peer review committee.
(iii)Approval by the federal
United States food and drug administration or its successor
agency.
(hh)Prescribing, dispensing or administering
anabolicandrogenic steroids to a person for other than therapeutic
purposes.
(ii)Lack of or inappropriate direction,
collaboration or direct supervision of a medical assistant or a licensed,
certified or registered health care provider employed by, supervised by or
assigned to the physician.
(jj)Knowingly making a false or misleading
statement to the board or on a form required by the board or in a written
correspondence, including attachments, with the board.
(kk)Failing to dispense drugs and devices in
compliance with article 6 of this chapter.
(ll)Conduct that the board determines is gross
negligence, repeated negligence or negligence resulting in harm to or the death
of a patient.
(mm)The representation by a doctor of medicine or
the doctor's staff, employer or representative that the doctor is boarded or
board certified if this is not true or the standing is not current or without
supplying the full name of the specific agency, organization or entity granting
this standing.
(nn)Refusing to submit to a body fluid examination
or any other examination known to detect the presence of alcohol or other drugs
as required by the board pursuant to section 321452 or pursuant to a
board investigation into a doctor of medicine's alleged substance abuse.
(oo)Failing to report in writing to the Arizona
medical board or the Arizona regulatory board of physician assistants any
evidence that a doctor of medicine or a physician assistant is or may be
medically incompetent, guilty of unprofessional conduct or mentally or
physically unable to safely practice medicine or to perform as a physician
assistant.
(pp)The failure of a physician who is the chief
executive officer, the medical director or the medical chief of staff of a
health care institution to report in writing to the board that the hospital
privileges of a doctor of medicine have been denied, revoked, suspended,
supervised or limited because of actions by the doctor that appear to show that
the doctor is or may be medically incompetent, is or may be guilty of
unprofessional conduct or is or may be unable to engage safely in the practice
of medicine.
(qq)Claiming to be a current member of the board, or its staff or a board medical consultant if
this is not true.
(rr)Failing to make patient medical records in the
physician's possession promptly available to a physician assistant, a nurse
practitioner, a person licensed pursuant to this chapter or a podiatrist,
chiropractor, naturopathic physician, osteopathic physician or homeopathic
physician licensed under chapter 7, 8, 14, 17 or 29 of this title on receipt of
proper authorization to do so from the patient, a minor patient's parent, the
patient's legal guardian or the patient's authorized representative or failing
to comply with title 12, chapter 13, article 7.1.
(ss)Prescribing, dispensing or furnishing a
prescription medication or a prescriptiononly device as defined in
section 321901 to a person unless the licensee first conducts a physical
or mental health status examination of that person or has previously
established a doctorpatient relationship.The physical or
mental health status examination may be conducted during a real-time
telemedicine encounter with audio and video capability if the telemedicine
audio and video capability meets the elements required by the centers for
medicare and medicaid services, unless the examination is for the purpose of
obtaining a written certification from the physician for the purposes of title
36, chapter 28.1. This subdivision does not apply to:
(i)A physician who provides temporary patient
supervision on behalf of the patient's regular treating licensed health care
professional or provides a consultation requested by the patient's regular
treating licensed health care professional.
(ii)Emergency medical situations as defined in
section 411831.
(iii)Prescriptions written to prepare a patient for
a medical examination.
(iv)Prescriptions written or prescription
medications issued for use by a county or tribal public health department for
immunization programs or emergency treatment or in response to an infectious
disease investigation, public health emergency, infectious disease outbreak or
act of bioterrorism. For the purposes of this item, "bioterrorism"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 36781.
(v)Prescriptions written or antimicrobials
dispensed to a contact as defined in section 36661 who is believed to
have had significant exposure risk as defined in section 36661 with
another person who has been diagnosed with a communicable disease as defined in
section 36-661 by the prescribing or dispensing physician.
(vi)Prescriptions written or prescription
medications issued for administration of immunizations or vaccines listed in
the United States centers for disease control and prevention's recommended
immunization schedule to a household member of a patient.
(vii)Prescriptions for epinephrine auto-injectors
written or dispensed for a school district or charter school to be stocked for
emergency use pursuant to section 15157.
(viii)Prescriptions written by a licensee through a
telemedicine program that is covered by the policies and procedures adopted by
the administrator of a hospital or outpatient treatment center.
(ix)Prescriptions for naloxone hydrochloride or any
other opiate opioid antagonist approved by the United
States food and drug administration that are written or dispensed for use
pursuant to section 362228 or 362266.
(tt)Performing office based surgery using sedation
in violation of board rules.
(uu)Practicing medicine under a false or assumed
name in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1854, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1854.Definition of unprofessional conduct
For the purposes of this chapter,
"unprofessional conduct" includes the following acts, whether
occurring in this state or elsewhere:
1.Knowingly betraying a
professional secret or wilfully violating a privileged communication except as
either of these may otherwise be required by law. This paragraph does not
prevent members of the board from exchanging information with the licensing and
disciplinary boards of other states, territories or districts of the United
States or with foreign countries or with osteopathic medical organizations
located in this state or in any state, district or territory of this country or
in any foreign country.
2.Committing a felony
or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. In either case conviction by any
court of competent jurisdiction is conclusive evidence of the commission of the
offense.
3.Practicing medicine
while under the influence of alcohol, a dangerous
drug as defined in section 133401, narcotic or hypnotic drugs or any
substance that impairs or may impair the licensee's ability to safely and
skillfully practice medicine.
4.Being diagnosed by a
physician licensed under this chapter or chapter 13 of this title or a
psychologist licensed under chapter 19.1 of this title as excessively or
illegally using alcohol or a controlled substance.
5.Prescribing,
dispensing or administering controlled substances or prescriptiononly
drugs for other than accepted therapeutic purposes.
6.Engaging in the
practice of medicine in a manner that harms or may harm a patient or that the
board determines falls below the community standard.
7.Impersonating another
physician.
8.Acting or assuming to
act as a member of the board if this is not true.
9.Procuring, renewing
or attempting to procure or renew a license to practice osteopathic medicine by
fraud or misrepresentation.
10.Having professional
connection with or lending one's name to an illegal practitioner of osteopathic
medicine or any of the other healing arts.
11.Representing that a
manifestly incurable disease, injury, ailment or infirmity can be permanently
cured or that a curable disease, injury, ailment or infirmity can be cured
within a stated time, if this is not true.
12.Failing to
reasonably disclose and inform the patient or the patient's representative of
the method, device or instrumentality the licensee uses to treat the patient's
disease, injury, ailment or infirmity.
13.Refusing to divulge
to the board on demand the means, method, device or instrumentality used in the
treatment of a disease, injury, ailment or infirmity.
14.Charging a fee for
services not rendered or dividing a professional fee for patient referrals.
This paragraph does not apply to payments from a medical researcher to a
physician in connection with identifying and monitoring patients for clinical
trial regulated by the United States food and drug administration.
15.Knowingly making any
false or fraudulent statement, written or oral, in connection with the practice
of medicine or when applying for or renewing privileges at a health care
institution or a health care program.
16.Advertising in a
false, deceptive or misleading manner.
17.Representing or
claiming to be an osteopathic medical specialist if the physician has not
satisfied the applicable requirements of this chapter or board rules.
18.The denial of or
disciplinary action against a license by any other state, territory, district
or country, unless it can be shown that this occurred for reasons that did not
relate to the person's ability to safely and skillfully practice osteopathic
medicine or to any act of unprofessional conduct as provided in this section.
19.Any conduct or
practice contrary to recognized standards of ethics of the osteopathic medical
profession.
20.Violating or
attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, or assisting in or abetting the
violation of or conspiring to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
21.Failing or refusing
to establish and maintain adequate records on a patient as follows:
(a)If the patient is an
adult, for at least six years after the last date the licensee provided the
patient with medical or health care services.
(b)If the patient is a
child, either for at least three years after the child's eighteenth birthday or
for at least six years after the last date the licensee provided that patient
with medical or health care services, whichever date occurs later.
22.Using controlled
substances or prescriptiononly drugs unless they are provided by a
medical practitioner, as defined in section 321901, as part of a lawful
course of treatment.
23.Prescribing
controlled substances to members of one's immediate family unless there is no
other physician available within fifty miles to treat a member of the family
and an emergency exists.
24.Nontherapeutic use
of injectable amphetamines.
25.Violating a formal
order, probation or a stipulation issued by the board under this chapter.
26.Charging or
collecting an inappropriate fee.This paragraph does not apply to a
fee that is fixed in a written contract between the physician and the patient
and entered into before treatment begins.
27.Using experimental
forms of therapy without adequate informed patient consent or without
conforming to generally accepted criteria and complying with federal and state
statutes and regulations governing experimental therapies.
28.Failing to make
patient medical records in the physician's possession promptly available to a
physician assistant, a nurse practitioner, a person licensed pursuant to this
chapter or a podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopathic physician, physician or
homeopathic physician licensed under chapter 7, 8, 13, 14 or 29 of this title
on receipt of proper authorization to do so from the patient, a minor patient's
parent, the patient's legal guardian or the patient's authorized representative
or failing to comply with title 12, chapter 13, article 7.1.
29.Failing to allow
properly authorized board personnel to have, on presentation of a subpoena,
access to any documents, reports or records that are maintained by the
physician and that relate to the physician's medical practice or medically
related activities pursuant to section 321855.01.
30.Signing a blank,
undated or predated prescription form.
31.Obtaining a fee by
fraud, deceit or misrepresentation.
32.Failing to report to
the board an osteopathic physician and surgeon who is or may be guilty of
unprofessional conduct or is or may be mentally or physically unable safely to
engage in the practice of medicine.
33.Referring a patient
to a diagnostic or treatment facility or prescribing goods and services without
disclosing that the physician has a direct pecuniary interest in the facility,
goods or services to which the patient has been referred or prescribed. This
paragraph does not apply to a referral by one physician to another physician
within a group of physicians practicing together.
34.Lack of or
inappropriate direction, collaboration or supervision of a licensed, certified
or registered health care provider or office personnel employed by or assigned
to the physician in the medical care of patients.
35.Violating a federal
law, a state law or a rule applicable to the practice of medicine.
36.Prescribing or
dispensing controlled substances or prescriptiononly medications without
establishing and maintaining adequate patient records.
37.Failing to dispense
drugs and devices in compliance with article 4 of this chapter.
38.Any conduct or
practice that endangers a patient's or the public's health or may reasonably be
expected to do so.
39.Any conduct or
practice that impairs the licensee's ability to safely and skillfully practice
medicine or that may reasonably be expected to do so.
40.With the exception
of heavy metal poisoning, using chelation therapy in the treatment of
arteriosclerosis or as any other form of therapy without adequate informed
patient consent and without conforming to generally accepted experimental
criteria, including protocols, detailed records, periodic analysis of results
and periodic review by a medical peer review committee.
41.Prescribing,
dispensing or administering anabolicandrogenic steroids to a person for
other than therapeutic purposes.
42.Engaging in sexual
conduct with a current patient or with a former patient within six months after
the last medical consultation unless the patient was the licensee's spouse at
the time of the contact or, immediately preceding the physicianpatient
relationship, was in a dating or engagement relationship with the licensee.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "sexual conduct" includes:
(a)Engaging in or
soliciting sexual relationships, whether consensual or nonconsensual.
(b)Making sexual
advances, requesting sexual favors or engaging in any other verbal conduct or
physical conduct of a sexual nature.
43.Fetal experiments
conducted in violation of section 362302.
44.Conduct that the
board determines constitutes gross negligence, repeated negligence or
negligence that results in harm or death of a patient.
45.Conduct in the practice
of medicine that evidences moral unfitness to practice medicine.
46.Engaging in
disruptive or abusive behavior in a professional setting.
47.Failing to disclose
to a patient that the licensee has a direct financial interest in a prescribed
treatment, good or service if the treatment, good or service is available on a
competitive basis.This paragraph does not apply to a referral by
one licensee to another licensee within a group of licensees who practice
together. A licensee meets the disclosure requirements of this paragraph if all both of the following are true:
(a)The licensee makes
the disclosure on a form prescribed by the board.
(b)The patient or the
patient's guardian or parent acknowledges by signing the form that the licensee
has disclosed the licensee's direct financial interest.
48.Prescribing,
dispensing or furnishing a prescription medication or a prescriptiononly
device to a person if the licensee has not conducted a physical or mental
health status examination of that person or has not previously established a
physicianpatient relationship.The physical or mental health
status examination may be conducted during a real-time telemedicine encounter
with audio and video capability if the telemedicine audio and video capability
meets the elements required by the centers for medicare and medicaid services,
unless the examination is for the purpose of obtaining a written certification
from the physician for the purposes of title 36, chapter 28.1. This paragraph
does not apply to:
(a)Emergencies.
(b)A licensee who
provides patient care on behalf of the patient's regular treating licensed
health care professional or provides a consultation requested by the patient's
regular treating licensed health care professional.
(c)Prescriptions
written or antimicrobials dispensed to a contact as defined in section 36661
who is believed to have had significant exposure risk as defined in section 36661
with another person who has been diagnosed with a communicable disease as
defined in section 36661 by the prescribing or dispensing physician.
(d)Prescriptions for
epinephrine auto-injectors written or dispensed for a school district or
charter school to be stocked for emergency use pursuant to section 15157.
(e)Prescriptions
written by a licensee through a telemedicine program that is covered by the
policies and procedures adopted by the administrator of a hospital or
outpatient treatment center.
(f)Prescriptions for
naloxone hydrochloride or any other opiate opioid antagonist approved by
the United States food and drug administration that are written or dispensed
for use pursuant to section 362228 or 362266.
49.If a licensee
provides medical care by computer, failing to disclose the licensee's license
number and the board's address and telephone number. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-1901.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1901.01.Definition of unethical and unprofessional conduct;
permittees; licensees
A.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires, for the purposes of disciplining a permittee, "unethical
conduct" means the following, whether occurring in this state or
elsewhere:
1.Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or any drug-related
offense. In either case, conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
plea of no contest is conclusive evidence of the commission.
2.Committing an act that is substantially related
to the qualifications, functions or duties of a permittee and that demonstrates
either a lack of good moral character or an actual or potential unfitness to
hold a permit in light of the public's safety.
3.Working under the influence of alcohol or other
drugs.
4.Addiction to the use of alcohol or other drugs to
such a degree as to render the permittee unfit to perform the permittee's
employment duties.
5.Violating a federal or state law or
administrative rule relating to the manufacture, sale or distribution of drugs,
devices, poisons, hazardous substances or precursor chemicals.
6.Violating a federal or state law or
administrative rule relating to marijuana, prescriptiononly drugs,
narcotics, dangerous drugs, controlled substances or precursor chemicals.
7.Violating state or federal reporting or
recordkeeping requirements on transactions relating to precursor chemicals.
8.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern is or may be
professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty of unprofessional conduct or is
or may be mentally or physically unable safely to engage in the practice of
pharmacy.
9.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee is or may be
professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty of unprofessional conduct or is
or may be mentally or physically unable safely to engage in the permissible
activities of a pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee.
10.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that appears to show that a permittee or permittee's employee is or
may be guilty of unethical conduct, is or may be mentally or physically unable
safely to engage in employment duties related to manufacturing, selling,
distributing or dispensing of drugs, devices, poisons, hazardous substances,
controlled substances or precursor chemicals or is or may be in violation of
this chapter or a rule adopted under this chapter.
11.Intending to sell, transfer or distribute, or to
offer for sale, transfer or distribution, or selling, transferring,
distributing or dispensing or offering for sale, transfer or distribution an
imitation controlled substance, imitation overthecounter drug or
imitation prescriptiononly drug as defined in section 133451.
12.Denial or discipline of a permittee's permit to
manufacture, sell, distribute or dispense drugs, devices, poisons, hazardous
substances or precursor chemicals in another jurisdiction and the permit was
not reinstated.
13.Committing an offense in another jurisdiction
that if committed in this state would be grounds for discipline.
14.Obtaining or attempting to obtain a permit or a
permit renewal by fraud, by misrepresentation or by knowingly taking advantage
of the mistake of another person or an agency.
15.Wilfully making a false report or record
required by this chapter, required by federal or state laws pertaining to
drugs, devices, poisons, hazardous substances or precursor chemicals or
required for the payment for drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances or
precursor chemicals or for services pertaining to such drugs or substances.
16.Knowingly filing with the board any application,
renewal or other document that contains false or misleading information.
17.Providing false or misleading information or
omitting material information in any communication to the board or the board's
employees or agents.
18.Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting in or abetting the violation of, or conspiring to
violate, this chapter.
19.Violating a formal order, terms of probation, a
consent agreement or a stipulation issued or entered into by the board or its
executive director pursuant to this chapter.
20.Failing to comply with a board subpoena or
failing to comply in a timely manner with a board subpoena without providing
any explanation to the board for not complying with the subpoena.
21.Failing to provide the board, or
its employees or agents or an authorized federal or state official conducting a
site investigation, inspection or audit with access to any place for which a
permit has been issued or for which an application for a permit has been
submitted.
22.Failing to notify the board of a change of
ownership, management or pharmacist in charge.
23.Failing to promptly produce on the request of
the official conducting a site investigation, inspection or audit any book,
record or document.
24.Overruling or attempting to overrule a
pharmacist in matters of pharmacy ethics or interpreting laws pertaining to the
practice of pharmacy or the distribution of drugs or devices.
25.Distributing premiums or rebates of any kind in
connection with the sale of prescription medication, other than to the
prescription medication recipient.
26.Failing to maintain effective controls against
the diversion of precursor chemicals to unauthorized persons or entities.
27.Fraudulently claiming to have performed a
service.
28.Fraudulently charging a fee for a service.
29.Advertising drugs or devices, or services
pertaining to drugs or devices, in a manner that is untrue or misleading in any
particular, and that is known, or that by the exercise of reasonable care
should be known, to be untrue or misleading.
B.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires, for the purposes of disciplining a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or
graduate intern, "unprofessional conduct" means the following,
whether occurring in this state or elsewhere:
1.Addiction to the use of alcohol or other drugs to
such a degree as to render the licensee unfit to practice the profession of
pharmacy.
2.Violating any federal or state law, rule or
regulation relating to the manufacture or distribution of drugs and devices or
the practice of pharmacy.
3.Dispensing a different drug or brand of drug in
place of the drug or brand of drug ordered or prescribed without the express
permission in each case of the orderer, or in the case of a prescription order,
the medical practitioner.The conduct prohibited by this paragraph
does not apply to substitutions authorized pursuant to section 321963.01.
4.Obtaining or attempting to obtain a license to
practice pharmacy or a license renewal by fraud, by misrepresentation or by
knowingly taking advantage of the mistake of another person or an agency.
5.Denial or discipline of a licensee's license to
practice pharmacy in another jurisdiction and the license was not reinstated.
6.Claiming professional superiority in compounding
or dispensing prescription orders.
7.Failing to comply with the mandatory continuing
professional pharmacy education requirements of sections 321936 and 321937
and rules adopted by the board.
8.Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or any drug-related
offense. In either case, conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
plea of no contest is conclusive evidence of the commission.
9.Working under the influence of alcohol or other
drugs.
10.Violating a federal or state law or
administrative rule relating to marijuana, prescriptiononly drugs,
narcotics, dangerous drugs, controlled substances or precursor chemicals when
determined by the board or by conviction in a federal or state court.
11.Knowingly dispensing a drug without a valid
prescription order as required pursuant to section 321968, subsection A.
12.Knowingly dispensing a drug on a prescription
order that was issued in the course of the conduct of business of dispensing
drugs pursuant to diagnosis by mail or the internet, unless the order was any
of the following:
(a)Made by a physician who provides temporary
patient supervision on behalf of the patient's regular treating licensed health
care professional or provides a consultation requested by the patient's regular
treating licensed health care professional.
(b)Made in an emergency medical situation as
defined in section 411831.
(c)Written to prepare a patient for a medical
examination.
(d)Written or the prescription medications were
issued for use by a county or tribal public health department for immunization
programs or emergency treatment or in response to an infectious disease
investigation, a public health emergency, an infectious disease outbreak or an
act of bioterrorism. For the purposes of this subdivision,
"bioterrorism" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36781.
(e)Written or antimicrobials were dispensed by the
prescribing or dispensing physician to a contact as defined in section 36661
who is believed to have had significant exposure risk as defined in section 36661
with another person who has been diagnosed with a communicable disease as
defined in section 36661.
(f)Written or the prescription medications were
issued for administration of immunizations or vaccines listed in the United
States centers for disease control and prevention's recommended immunization
schedule to a household member of a patient.
(g)For epinephrine auto-injectors that are written
or dispensed for a school district or charter school and that are to be stocked
for emergency use pursuant to section 15157.
(h)Written by a licensee through a telemedicine
program that is covered by the policies and procedures adopted by the
administrator of a hospital or outpatient treatment center.
(i)Written pursuant to a physical or mental health
status examination that was conducted during a realtime telemedicine
encounter with audio and video capability that meets the elements required by
the centers for medicare and medicaid services.
(j)For naloxone hydrochloride or any other opiate opioid antagonist approved by the United
States food and drug administration and written or dispensed for use pursuant
to section 362228 or 362266.
13.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern is or may be
professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty of unprofessional conduct or is
or may be mentally or physically unable to safely engage in the practice of
pharmacy.
14.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee is or may be
professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty of unprofessional conduct or is
or may be mentally or physically unable to safely engage in the permissible
activities of a pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee.
15.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a permittee or a permittee's employee is or may be guilty of
unethical conduct or is or may be in violation of this chapter or a rule
adopted under this chapter.
16.Committing an offense in another jurisdiction
that if committed in this state would be grounds for discipline.
17.Knowingly filing with the board any application,
renewal or other document that contains false or misleading information.
18.Providing false or misleading information or
omitting material information in any communication to the board or the board's
employees or agents.
19.Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting in or abetting in the violation of, or conspiring to
violate, this chapter.
20.Violating a formal order, terms of probation, a
consent agreement or a stipulation issued or entered into by the board or its
executive director pursuant to this chapter.
21.Failing to comply with a board subpoena or
failing to comply in a timely manner with a board subpoena without providing
any explanation to the board for not complying with the subpoena.
22.Refusing without just cause to allow authorized
agents of the board to examine documents that are required to be kept pursuant
to this chapter or title 36.
23.Participating in an arrangement or agreement to
allow a prescription order or a prescription medication to be left at, picked
up from, accepted by or delivered to a place that is not licensed as a
pharmacy. This paragraph does not prohibit a pharmacist or a pharmacy from
using an employee or a common carrier to pick up prescription orders at or
deliver prescription medications to the office or home of a medical
practitioner, the residence of a patient or a patient's hospital.
24.Paying rebates or entering into an agreement for
the payment of rebates to a medical practitioner or any other person in the
health care field.
25.Providing or causing to be provided to a medical
practitioner prescription order blanks or forms bearing the pharmacist's or
pharmacy's name, address or other means of identification.
26.Fraudulently claiming to have performed a
professional service.
27.Fraudulently charging a fee for a professional
service.
28.Failing to report a change of the licensee's
home address or employer as required pursuant to section 321926.
29.Failing to report a change in the licensee's
residency status as required pursuant to section 321926.01.
C.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires, for the purposes of disciplining a pharmacy technician or pharmacy
technician trainee, "unprofessional conduct" means the following,
whether occurring in this state or elsewhere:
1.Addiction to the use of alcohol or other drugs to
such a degree as to render the licensee unfit to perform the licensee's
employment duties.
2.Violating a federal or state law or
administrative rule relating to the manufacture or distribution of drugs or
devices.
3.Obtaining or attempting to obtain a pharmacy
technician or pharmacy technician trainee license or a pharmacy technician
license renewal by fraud, by misrepresentation or by knowingly taking advantage
of the mistake of another person or an agency.
4.Denial or discipline of a licensee's license to
practice as a pharmacy technician in another jurisdiction and the license was
not reinstated.
5.Failing to comply with the mandatory continuing
professional education requirements of section 321925, subsection I and
rules adopted by the board.
6.Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or any drug-related
offense. In either case, conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
plea of no contest is conclusive evidence of the commission.
7.Working under the influence of alcohol or other
drugs.
8.Violating a federal or state law or
administrative rule relating to marijuana, prescriptiononly drugs,
narcotics, dangerous drugs, controlled substances or precursor chemicals when
determined by the board or by conviction in a federal or state court.
9.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern is or may be
professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty of unprofessional conduct or is
or may be mentally or physically unable to safely engage in the practice of
pharmacy.
10.Failing to report
in writing to the board any evidence that a pharmacy technician or pharmacy
technician trainee is or may be professionally incompetent, is or may be guilty
of unprofessional conduct or is or may be mentally or physically unable to
safely engage in the permissible activities of a pharmacy technician or
pharmacy technician trainee.
11.Failing to report in writing to the board any
evidence that a permittee or a permittee's employee is or may be guilty of
unethical conduct or is or may be in violation of this chapter or a rule
adopted under this chapter.
12.Committing an offense in another jurisdiction
that if committed in this state would be grounds for discipline.
13.Knowingly filing with the board any application,
renewal or other document that contains false or misleading information.
14.Providing false or misleading information or
omitting material information in any communication to the board or the board's
employees or agents.
15.Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting in or abetting in the violation of, or conspiring to
violate, this chapter.
16.Violating a formal order, terms of probation, a
consent agreement or a stipulation issued or entered into by the board or its
executive director pursuant to this chapter.
17.Failing to comply with a board subpoena or
failing to comply in a timely manner with a board subpoena without providing
any explanation to the board for not complying with the subpoena.
18.Failing to report a change of the licensee's
home address or employer as required pursuant to section 321926.
19.Failing to report a change in the licensee's
residency status as required pursuant to section 321926.01. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 32, chapter 18, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-1979, to read:
START_STATUTE32-1979.Pharmacists; dispensing opioid antagonists without a
prescription; board protocols; immunity
A.A
pharmacist may dispense without a prescription, according to protocols adopted
by the board, naloxone hydrochloride or any other opioid antagonist that is
approved by the United States food and drug administration for use according to
the protocols specified by board rule to a person who is at risk of experiencing
an opioidrelated overdose or to a family member who is in a position to
assist that person.
B.A
pharmacist who dispenses naloxone hydrochloride or any other opioid antagonist
pursuant to subsection A of this section shall:
1.Document
the dispensing consistent with board rules.
2.Instruct
the individual to whom the opioid antagonist is dispensed to summon emergency
services as soon as practicable either before or after administering the opioid
antagonist.
C.This
section does not affect the authority of a pharmacist to fill or refill a
prescription for naloxone hydrochloride or any other opioid antagonist that is
approved by the United States food and drug administration.
D.A
pharmacist who dispenses an opioid antagonist pursuant to this section is
immune from professional liability and criminal prosecution for any decision
made, act or omission or injury that results from that act if the pharmacist
acts with reasonable care and in good faith, except in cases of wanton or
wilful neglect.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 36-2228, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2228.Administration of opioid antagonists; training; immunity;
designation by director
A.Pursuant to a standing order issued by a
physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a nurse
practitioner licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 and authorized by law to
prescribe drugs, an emergency medical care technician or a peace officer who is
trained in the administration of naloxone hydrochloride or any other opiate opioid antagonist that is approved by the
United States food and drug administration and designated by the director may
administer naloxone hydrochloride or another opiate
opioid antagonist to a person who the emergency medical care
technician or peace officer believes is suffering from an opiaterelated opioid-related drug overdose.
B.The department, in
coordination with the Arizona peace officer standards and training board, shall
develop a training module for emergency medical care technicians and peace
officers that provides training regarding the identification of a person
suffering from an opiaterelated opioidrelated drug
overdose and the use of naloxone hydrochloride or other opiate
opioid antagonists.
C.Physicians who are licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 13 or 17 and who issue a standing order, nurse practitioners who are
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 and authorized by law to prescribe
drugs and who issue a standing order and emergency medical care technicians and
peace officers who administer naloxone hydrochloride or any other opiate opioid antagonist pursuant to this section
are immune from professional liability and criminal prosecution for any
decision made, act or omission or injury that results from that act if those
persons act with reasonable care and in good faith, except in cases of wanton
or wilful neglect. This section does not create a duty to act or standard of
care for peace officers to administer an opiate opioid antagonist.
D.The director shall designate opiate
opioid antagonists that may be used pursuant to this section
based on an evaluation of the opiate opioid antagonist's safety and
efficacy. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 36, chapter 21.1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 4, to read:
ARTICLE 4.OPIOID ANTAGONISTS
START_STATUTE36-2266.Prescribing and dispensing; immunity
A.A physician who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 may prescribe or dispense naloxone
hydrochloride or any other opioid antagonist that is approved by the United
States food and drug administration for use according to the protocol specified
by the physician to a person who is at risk of experiencing an opioid-related
overdose, to a family member of that person or to a community organization that
provides services to persons who are addicted to opioids and that may be in a
position to assist a person who is at risk of experiencing an opioid-related
overdose. 
B.Except
in cases of wanton or wilful neglect, A physician who in good faith prescribes
or dispenses an opioid antagonist pursuant to subsection A of this section is
immune from professional liability and criminal prosecution for any decision
made, act or omission or injury that results from that act if the physician
acts with reasonable care and in good faith.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2267.Administration of opioid antagonist; exemption from civil
liability
A.A person
may administer an opioid antagonist that is prescribed or dispensed pursuant to
section 32-1979 or 362266 in accordance with the protocol specified by
the physician or pharmacist to a person who is experiencing an opioidrelated
overdose.
B.A person
who in good faith and without compensation administers an opioid antagonist to
a person who is experiencing an opioidrelated overdose is not liable for
any civil or other damages as the result of any act or omission by the person
rendering the care or as the result of any act or failure to act to arrange for
further medical treatment or care for the person experiencing the overdose,
unless the person while rendering the care is guilty of gross negligence.END_STATUTE

