







REFERENCE TITLE: crimes against livestock; poultry;
  animals







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2330









Introduced by
Representatives
  Barton, Gowan





AN ACT

Amending title 3,
chapter 11, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 3-1313;
amending section 13-2910, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to crimes against
animals.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 3, chapter 11, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 3-1313, to read:
START_STATUTE3-1313.Livestock or poultry injury or suffering; exception;
violation; classification; definition
A.A person
shall not intentionally, knowingly or recklessly cause injury or undue
suffering to livestock or poultry, including depriving of necessary sustenance
or unnecessarily beating, injuring or mutilating any livestock or poultry.
B.A person
shall not intentionally torture or torment livestock or poultry.
C.The
director or the director's designee shall be notified of any investigation of
an alleged violation of this section and after being notified of the
investigation may choose to participate or not participate in the
investigation.
D.A county,
city or town shall not enact an ordinance that relates to the treatment of
livestock or poultry or animal husbandry practices that is more prohibitive or
restrictive than this section.
E.This
section does not apply to normal, good husbandry practices that are used by a
person in the production of food or to the otherwise lawful extermination of an
insect or animal that is destructive to food, crops or livestock.
F.This
section does not prohibit the humane slaughter or euthanization of livestock or
poultry pursuant to this title.
G.A person
who owns or holds livestock or poultry that is not part of an agricultural
operation that is regulated by the department under this title may be
prosecuted for a violation of section 132910.
H.An
intentional or knowing violation of subsection A of this section that results
in death or serious physical injury or a violation of subsection B of this
section is a class 6 felony. Any other violation of subsection A of this
section is a class 1 misdemeanor, except that a second or subsequent violation
is a class 6 felony.
I.For the
purposes of this section, "torture or torment" means every act
whereby the infliction of pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed to
continue when there is a reasonable remedy or relief.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-2910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.Cruelty to animals; interference with working or service
animal; classification; definitions
A.A person commits cruelty to animals if the person
does any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly subjects
any animal under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or
abandonment.
2.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly fails to
provide medical attention care and treatment necessary to
prevent protracted unreasonable suffering to any
animal under the person's custody or control.
3.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly inflicts
unnecessary physical injury to any animal.
4.Recklessly subjects or permits another person to subject any
animal under the person's custody or
control to cruel mistreatment.
5.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly kills any
animal under the custody or control of another person without either legal
privilege or consent of the owner.
6.Recklessly interferes with, kills or harms a
working or service animal without either legal privilege or consent of the
owner.
7.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly leaves an
animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle and physical injury to or
death of the animal is likely to result.
8.Intentionally or knowingly subjects any animal
under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment that
results in serious physical injury to the animal.
9.Intentionally or knowingly subjects or permits another person to subject any
animal under the person's custody or
control to cruel mistreatment.
10.Intentionally or knowingly interferes with,
kills or harms a working or service animal without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner.
11.Intentionally or knowingly allows any dog that
is under the person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause
physical injury to a service animal.
12.Recklessly allows any dog that is under the
person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause physical injury to
a service animal.
13.Intentionally or knowingly obtains or exerts
unauthorized control over a service animal with the intent to deprive the
service animal handler of the service animal.
14.Intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly hoards animals.
B.It is a defense to subsection A of this section
if:
1.Any person exposes poison to be taken by a dog
that has killed or wounded livestock or poison to be taken by predatory animals
on premises owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
protecting the person or the person's livestock or poultry, the treated
property is kept posted by the person who authorized or performed the treatment
until the poison has been removed and the poison is removed by the person
exposing the poison after the threat to the person or the person's livestock or
poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall provide adequate
warning to persons who enter the property by the point or points of normal
entry. The warning notice that is posted shall be readable at a distance of
fifty feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall state the
word "danger" or "warning".
2.Any person uses poisons in and immediately around
buildings owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
controlling wild and domestic rodents as otherwise allowed by the laws of the
state, excluding any furbearing animals as defined in section 17101.
C.This section does not prohibit or restrict:
1.The taking of wildlife or other activities
permitted by or pursuant to title 17.
2.Activities permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
3.Activities regulated by the Arizona game and fish
department or the Arizona department of agriculture.
4.Lawful
activities involving the possession, training, transport, exhibition or use of
the animal in the otherwise lawful pursuits of licensed, permitted or regulated
hunting, ranching, farming, rodeos, livestock shows, fairs, livestock auctions
and security services.
D.A peace officer, animal control enforcement agent
or animal control enforcement deputy may use reasonable force to open a vehicle
to rescue an animal if the animal is left in the vehicle as prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 7 of this section.
E.A person who is convicted of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 6 or 10 of this section is liable as follows:
1.If the working or service animal was killed or
disabled, to the owner or agency that owns the working or service animal and
that employs the handler or to the owner or handler for the replacement and
training costs of the working or service animal and for any veterinary bills.
2.To the owner or agency that owns a working or
service animal for the salary of the handler for the period of time that the
handler's services are lost to the owner or agency.
3.To the owner for the owner's contractual losses
with the agency.
F.An incorporated city or town or a county may
adopt an ordinance with misdemeanor provisions at least as stringent as the
misdemeanor provisions of this section, except that any ordinance adopted shall
not prohibit or restrict any activity involving a dog, whether the dog is
restrained or not, if the activity is directly related to the business of
shepherding or herding livestock and the activity is necessary for the safety
of a human, the dog or livestock or is permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
G.Before
sentencing, the court may require a person to undergo a psychological
evaluation and, if appropriate, order the person to attend counseling at the
person's own expense.
G.H.A person who
violates subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or
12 or 14 of this section
is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A
person who commits a second or subsequent violation of subsection A, paragraph
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12 or 14 of this section is guilty of a class 6 felony. A
person who violates subsection A, paragraph 8, 9, 10, 11 or 13 of this section
is guilty of a class 6 felony. 
H.I.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Animal" means a mammal, bird, reptile
or amphibian. Animal does not include
livestock as defined in section 3-1201 and poultry as defined in section 3-2151
that are part of an agricultural operation that is regulated by the Arizona
department of agriculture pursuant to title 3.
2."Cruel mistreatment" means to torture
or otherwise inflict unnecessary serious physical injury on an animal or to
kill an animal in a manner that causes protracted
unreasonable suffering to
the animal.
3."Cruel neglect" means to abandon an animal or to fail to
provide an animal with necessary food, that is appropriate for the species and fit
for consumption and water
that is suitable for drinking or shelter that is appropriate for the animal or weather conditions.
4."Handler" means a law enforcement
officer or any other person who has successfully completed a course of training
prescribed by the person's agency or the service animal owner and who used a
specially trained animal under the direction of the person's agency or the
service animal owner.
5."Hoards
animals" means to possess animals in a quantity and manner that fails to
provide minimal standards of nutrition, sanitation and medical care or
treatment.
5.6."Service
animal" means an animal that has completed a formal training program, that
assists its owner in one or more daily living tasks that are associated with a
productive lifestyle and that is trained to not pose a danger to the health and
safety of the general public.
6.7."Working
animal" means a horse,
or a dog
or another guardian animal that is used by a law enforcement
agency or an agriculture operation,
that is specially trained for law enforcement work or animal husbandry practices and that is
under the control of a handler.END_STATUTE

