







REFERENCE TITLE: pilot program; STEM internships







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2321









Introduced by
Representative
  Meyer





AN ACT

establishing a
pilot program to provide internships to students in science, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING and mathematics programs; appropriating monies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Pilot program to provide internships to students in
science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs; challenge
scholarships; requirements; reports
A.The Arizona board of regents shall establish a
fiveyear pilot program to provide internships to students in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics programs.
B.The Arizona board of regents may enter into
agreements with businesses that wish to provide internships to students who
are awarded challenge scholarships pursuant to this section. The Arizona board
of regents shall prescribe the application procedure and the selection criteria
for businesses. Challenge scholarships awarded pursuant to this section may be
funded by monies appropriated for this purpose or by gifts, grants or
donations received by the board for this purpose, except that at least fifty
percent of the scholarship monies shall originate from private sources.
C.As part of the pilot program, the Arizona board
of regents shall award science, technology, engineering and mathematics
challenge scholarships to students who meet the eligibility criteria prescribed
in this section.
D.To be eligible to receive an initial science,
technology, engineering and mathematics challenge scholarship pursuant to this
section, a student must meet all of the following criteria:
1.Graduate from a high school in this state with a
grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
2.Enroll in a science, technology, engineering or
mathematics program at a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board
of regents.
3.Agree to work as an intern for not more than
fifteen hours a week for a business that participates in the pilot program.
E.After the initial award of a challenge
scholarship pursuant to this section, a student must meet all of the following
criteria to receive the scholarship in subsequent years:
1.Remain enrolled in a science, technology,
engineering or mathematics program pursuant to this section at a university
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
2.Maintain an overall grade point average of at
least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale.
3.Complete at least eighty percent of all semester
credit hours for which that student enrolled each semester.
4.Complete at least twentyfour semester
credit hours per academic year.
5.Work as an intern for not more than fifteen hours
each week for a business that participates in the pilot program.
F.A university that participates in the pilot
program must meet all of the following criteria:
1.Admit at least fifty students each academic year
into science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs.
2.Develop partnerships with business and industry
to:
(a)Identify local employment needs in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics fields.
(b)Provide internships for students who are
enrolled in science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs.
G.A student may not be awarded a challenge
scholarship pursuant to this section for more than five thousand dollars for
more than two academic years.
H.The Arizona board of regents shall submit an
annual report to the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the
president of the senate and the joint legislative budget committee, and provide
a copy of this report to the secretary of state, that includes all of the following:
1.The number of students who participated in the
pilot program.
2.The number of students who worked as interns
under the pilot program.
3.A detailed accounting of the monies appropriated
and expended pursuant to this act.
I.The Arizona board of regents shall submit a final
report on or before September 15, 2022 to the governor, the speaker of the
house of representatives, the president of the senate and the joint legislative
budget committee, and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of
state, that includes all of the following:
1.The number of students who participated in the
pilot program.
2.The number of students who worked as interns
under the pilot program.
3.An analysis of the effectiveness of the pilot
program in stimulating businesses to hire students who participated in the
pilot program after graduation.
4.An analysis of the effectiveness of the pilot
program in assisting students who participated in the pilot program to find
subsequent employment in science, technology, engineering and mathematics
fields.
5.The number of students who participated in the
pilot program and who found subsequent fulltime employment in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics fields.
6.A detailed accounting of the monies appropriated
and expended pursuant to this act.
Sec.2.Appropriations; Arizona board of regents; pilot program to
provide internships to students in science, technology, engineering and
mathematics programs; exemption 
A.The sum of $1,000,000 is appropriated from the
state general fund in each of fiscal years 2016-2017, 20172018, 20182019,
20192020 and 20202021 to the Arizona board of regents for the
purpose of funding the pilot program established by this act.
B.The appropriations made in subsection A of this
section are exempt from the provisions of section 35190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations, except that all monies
remaining unencumbered or unexpended on July 1, 2022 revert to the state general
fund.

