







REFERENCE TITLE: personal information; breach; records;
  exception







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2363









Introduced by
Representative
  Carter





AN ACT

amending sections
44-7501 and 44-7601, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to security of personal
information.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-7501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7501.Notification of breach of security system; enforcement;
civil penalty; preemption; exceptions; definitions
A.When a person that conducts business in this
state and that owns or licenses unencrypted computerized data that includes
personal information becomes aware of an incident of unauthorized acquisition
and access to unencrypted or unredacted computerized data that includes an
individual's personal information, the person shall conduct a reasonable
investigation to promptly determine if there has been a breach of the security
system. If the investigation results in a determination that there has been a
breach in the security system, the person shall notify the individuals affected.
The notice shall be made in the most expedient manner possible and without
unreasonable delay subject to the needs of law enforcement as provided in
subsection C of this section and any measures necessary to determine the nature
and scope of the breach, to identify the individuals affected or to restore the
reasonable integrity of the data system.
B.A person that maintains unencrypted computerized
data that includes personal information that the person does not own shall
notify and cooperate with the owner or the licensee of the information of any
breach of the security of the system following discovery of the breach without
unreasonable delay. Cooperation shall include sharing information relevant to
the breach of the security of the system with the owner or licensee. The
person that owns or licenses the computerized data shall provide notice to the
individual pursuant to this section. The person that maintained the data under
an agreement with the owner or licensee is not required to provide notice to
the individual pursuant to this section unless the agreement stipulates
otherwise.
C.The notification required by subsection A of this
section may be delayed if a law enforcement agency advises the person that the
notification will impede a criminal investigation. The person shall make the
notification after the law enforcement agency determines that it will not
compromise the investigation.
D.The disclosure required by subsection A of this
section shall be provided by one of the following methods:
1.Written notice.
2.Electronic notice if the person's primary method
of communication with the individual is by electronic means or is consistent
with the provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in
the electronic signatures in global and national commerce act (P.L. 106229;
114 Stat. 464; 15 United States Code section 7001).
3.Telephonic notice.
4.Substitute notice if the person demonstrates that
the cost of providing notice pursuant to paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection
would exceed fifty thousand dollars or that the affected class of subject
individuals to be notified exceeds one hundred thousand persons, or the person
does not have sufficient contact information. Substitute notice shall consist
of all of the following:
(a)Electronic mail notice if the person has
electronic mail addresses for the individuals subject to the notice.
(b)Conspicuous posting of the notice on the web
site of the person if the person maintains one.
(c)Notification to major statewide media.
E.A person who maintains the person's own
notification procedures as part of an information security policy for the
treatment of personal information and who
is otherwise consistent with the requirements of this section
shall be deemed to be in compliance with the notification requirements of this
section if the person notifies subject individuals in accordance with the
person's policies if a breach of the security system occurs.
F.A person that complies with the notification
requirements or security breach procedures pursuant to the rules, regulations,
procedures, guidance or guidelines established by the person's primary or
functional federal regulator is deemed to be in compliance with this section.
G.A person is not required to disclose a breach of
the security of the system if the person or a law enforcement agency, after a
reasonable investigation, determines that a breach of the security of the
system has not occurred or is not reasonably likely to occur.
H.This section may only be enforced by the attorney
general. The attorney general may bring an action to obtain actual damages for
a wilful and knowing violation of this section and a civil penalty not to
exceed ten thousand dollars per breach of the security of the system or series
of breaches of a similar nature that are discovered in a single investigation.
I.The state legislature determines that security
system breach notification is a matter of statewide concern. The power to
regulate security breach notification is preempted by this state and this
section shall supersede and preempt all municipal and county laws, charters,
ordinances and rules relating to issues regulated by this chapter.
J.This section does not apply to either of the
following:
1.A person subject to title V of the GrammLeachBliley
act of 1999 (P.L. 106-102;
113 Stat. 1338; 15 United States Code sections 6801 through 6809).
2.Covered entities and business associates as defined under
regulations implementing the health insurance portability and accountability
act, 45 Code of Federal Regulations section 160.103 (1996)
(2003).
K.The department of public safety, a county
sheriff's department, a municipal police department, a prosecution agency and a
court shall create and maintain an information security policy that includes
notification procedures for a breach of the security system of the department
of public safety, the county sheriff's department, the municipal police
department, the prosecuting agency or the court.
L.For the purposes of this section:
1."Breach", "breach of the security
of the system", "breach of the security system" or
"security breach" means an unauthorized acquisition of and access to
unencrypted or unredacted computerized data that materially compromises the
security or confidentiality of personal information maintained by a person as
part of a database of personal information regarding multiple individuals and
that causes or is reasonably likely to cause substantial economic loss to an
individual. Good faith acquisition of personal information by an employee or
agent of the person for the purposes of the person is not a breach of the
security system if the personal information is not used for a purpose unrelated
to the person or subject to further wilful unauthorized disclosure.
2."Court" means the supreme court, court
of appeals, superior court, courts inferior to the superior court and justice
courts.
3."Encrypted" means use of an algorithmic
process to transform data into a form in which the data is rendered unreadable
or unusable without use of a confidential process or key.
4."Individual" means a person that is a
resident of this state as determined by a principal mailing address in this
state as reflected in the records of the person conducting business in this
state at the time of the breach.
5."Person" means a natural person,
corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, joint
venture, government, governmental subdivision or agency or any other legal or
commercial entity.Person does not include the department of public
safety, a county sheriff's department, a municipal police department, a
prosecution agency or a court.
6."Personal information":
(a)Means an individual's first name or first
initial and last name in combination with any one or more of the following data
elements, when the data element is not encrypted, redacted or secured by any
other method rendering the element unreadable or unusable:
(i)The individual's social security number.
(ii)The individual's number on a driver license
issued pursuant to section 283166 or number on a nonoperating
identification license issued pursuant to section 283165.
(iii)The individual's financial account number or
credit or debit card number in combination with any required security code, access
code or password that would permit access to the individual's financial
account.
(b)Does not include publicly available information
that is lawfully made available to the general public from federal, state or
local government records or widely distributed media.
7."Prosecution agency" means the attorney
general, any county attorney or any municipal prosecutor.
8."Redact" means alter or truncate data
such that no more than the last four digits of a social security number, driver
license number, nonoperating identification license number, financial account
number or credit or debit card number is accessible as part of the personal
information. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-7601, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7601.Discarding and disposing of records containing personal
identifying information; civil penalty; enforcement; definition
A.An entity shall not knowingly discard or dispose
of records or documents without redacting the information or destroying the
records or documents if the records or documents contain an individual's first
and last name or first initial and last name in combination with a
corresponding complete:
1.Social security number.
2.Credit card, charge card or debit card number.
3.Retirement account number.
4.Savings, checking or securities entitlement
account number.
5.Driver license number or nonoperating
identification license number.
B.This section may be enforced by either of the
following:
1.A county attorney in the county in which the
records or documents were wrongfully discarded or disposed. If a violation
occurs by the same entity in multiple counties, a county attorney in a county
in which records or documents were not
properly improperly
discarded or disposed of, after filing a notice of intent to enforce this
section, may send a copy of the notice to the county attorney in each county in
which records or documents were not properly discarded or disposed of and may
request that the actions be consolidated.
2.The attorney general.
C.A civil penalty shall be imposed for each
violation of subsection A of this
section arising out of one incident. The civil penalty shall not
exceed:
1.Five hundred dollars for a first violation.
2.One thousand dollars for a second violation.
3.Five thousand dollars for a third or subsequent
violation.
D.An entity that maintains and complies with the
entity's own procedures for the discarding or disposing of records or documents
containing the information listed in subsection A of this section that is consistent with the
requirements of this section shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
section.
E.This section does not apply to any of the
following:
1.An entity subject to title V of the GrammLeachBliley
act of 1999 (P.L. 106-102;
113 Stat. 1338; 15 United States Code sections 6801 through 6809).
2.Covered entities and business associates as defined under
regulations implementing the health insurance portability and accountability
act, 45 Code of Federal Regulations section 160.103 (1996)
(2003).
3.An entity subject to the federal fair credit
reporting act, (15
United States Code section 1681x).
F.This section only applies to paper records and
paper documents.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"entity" includes a corporation, foreign corporation, not for profit
corporation, profit and not for profit unincorporated association, nonprofit
corporation, sole proprietorship, close corporation, corporation sole or
limited liability company, a professional corporation, association or limited
liability company, a business trust, estate, partnership, registered limited
liability partnership, trust or joint venture, a government, governmental subdivision or
agency or any other legal or commercial entity. END_STATUTE

