







REFERENCE TITLE: collection agencies; unlawful acts







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2395









Introduced by
Representatives
  McCune Davis, Alston, Andrade, Cardenas, Fernandez, Mendez, Rios: Bolding,
  Clark, Gabaldn, Hale





AN ACT

amending sections
32-1055 and 32-1056, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to collection agencies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
32-1055, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1055.Unlawful acts
A.It is unlawful for a
person to conduct a collection agency in this state without having first applied
for and obtained a license under this chapter.
B.A collection agency
licensed under this chapter shall not directly or indirectly aid, abet or
receive compensation from an unlicensed person. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent a licensed agency from accepting, as forwardee, claims for collection
from a collection agency or attorney whose place of business is outside this
state.
C.A licensee shall not
advertise a claim for sale or threaten to so advertise a claim as a means of
endeavoring to enforce payment, nor shall a licensee agree to do so for the
purpose of soliciting claims. This subsection shall not be deemed to affect a
licensee acting as assignee for the benefit of a creditor or acting under a
court order.
D.It is unlawful for a
person conducting a collection agency in this state to:
1.Fail to render an
account of and pay to the client for whom collection has been made the proceeds
collected, less collection charges as agreed to by the person and the client,
within thirty days from the last day of the month in which the proceeds were
collected. If the amount due the client is less than five dollars, payment may
be deferred for an additional thirty days.
2.Fail to deposit with
a local depository all monies collected by the person and due to the person's
clients, and to fail to keep these monies deposited until these monies or
equivalent amounts are remitted to the person's clients. Notwithstanding this
paragraph, if a person conducting a collection agency does not maintain an
office in this state, the person may deposit and keep these monies in a
depository in a state where the person maintains the person's principal office.
3.Fail to keep a record
of monies collected and the remittance of these monies.
4.Fail to notify the
department within ten days of any change of name under which the person does
business as a collection agency or address at which the person conducts
business.
5.Aid or abet, directly
or indirectly, any person, persons or organizations in evading or violating any
of the provisions of this chapter.
6.Bring suit or initiate an arbitration proceeding
against the debtor or otherwise attempt to collect on a debt if the person
knows or reasonably should know that the applicable statute of limitations
expired, the debt was discharged in bankruptcy, the debt was paid or otherwise
settled or the debt is illegal under federal or state laws.
E.A violation of the fair debt collection practices act
(15 United States Code sections 1692 through 1692p) or the servicemembers civil
relief act (50 appendix United States Code sections 501 through 597b) is an unlawful act under this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
32-1056, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1056.Violations; classification; investigation
A.A person operating a
collection agency without a license shall
be is guilty
of a class 1 misdemeanor.
B.A licensee violating the provisions of section 321055 or the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to
this chapter shall be is subject to revocation of
license and shall be is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor.
C.A violation of section 32-1055 or the rules adopted
pursuant to this chapter is an unlawful act or practice pursuant to section
44-1522. The attorney general may investigate the act or practice and take
appropriate action pursuant to title 44, chapter 10, article 7. END_STATUTE

