







REFERENCE TITLE: property; declaration amendment;
  procedure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2382









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending sections
33-440 and 33-1817, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to real estate
covenants.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-440, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-440.Enforceability of private covenants; amendment of
declaration; definitions
A.An owner of real property may enter into a
private covenant regarding that real property and the private covenant is valid
and enforceable according to its terms if all of the following apply:
1.The private covenant is not prohibited by any
other existing private covenant or declaration affecting the real property and
does not violate any statute governing the subject matter of the private
covenant that is in effect before the
effective date of this section September 26, 2008.
2.The owner of the real property affected by the
private covenant and any person on whom the private covenant imposes any
liability or obligation have consented to the private covenant.
3.Any consent requirements contained in the express
provisions of any existing private covenant or declaration affecting the real
property have been met.
B.A private covenant is deemed not to constitute an
amendment to any existing private covenant or declaration unless the private
covenant expressly violates an express provision of the existing private
covenant or declaration.
C.Except
during the period of declarant control, the following apply to an amendment to
a declaration:
1.The
declaration may be amended by the association or an owner of property that is
subject to the declaration by an affirmative vote or written consent of the
number of eligible voters as prescribed in the declaration.
2.An amendment
to a declaration may apply to fewer than all of the lots or less than all of
the property that is bound by the declaration, and the amendment is deemed to
conform to the general design and plan of the community if both of the
following apply:
(a)The amendment receives the
affirmative vote or written consent of the number of eligible voters as
prescribed in the declaration.
(b)The amendment receives the
affirmative vote or written consent of all of the owners of the lots or
property to which the amendment applies.
3.Within
thirty days after the adoption of any amendment pursuant to this subsection,
the association or a property owner shall prepare, execute and record a written
instrument setting forth the amendment.
4.Notwithstanding
any provision in the declaration that provides for periodic renewal of the
declaration, an amendment to the declaration is effective immediately on
recordation of the instrument in the county in which the property is located.
C.D.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Declaration" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 331802.
2."Private covenant" means any uniform or
nonuniform covenant, restriction or condition regarding real property that is
contained in any deed, contract, agreement or other recorded instrument
affecting real property. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-1817, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1817.Declaration amendment; design, architectural committees;
review
A.Except
during the period of declarant control, the following apply to an amendment to
a declaration:
1.The
declaration may be amended by the association or an owner of property that is
subject to the declaration by an affirmative vote or written consent of the
number of eligible voters as prescribed in the declaration.
2.An
amendment to a declaration may apply to fewer than all of the lots or less than
all of the property that is bound by the declaration, and the amendment is
deemed to conform to the general design and plan of the community if both of
the following apply:
(a)The amendment receives the
affirmative vote or written consent of the number of eligible voters as
prescribed in the declaration.
(b)The amendment receives the
affirmative vote or written consent of all of the owners of the lots or
property to which the amendment applies.
3.Within
thirty days after the adoption of any amendment pursuant to this section, the
association or an owner shall prepare, execute and record a written instrument
setting forth the amendment.
4.Notwithstanding
any provision in the declaration that provides for periodic renewal of the
declaration, an amendment to the declaration is effective immediately on recordation
of the instrument in the county in which the property is located. 
B.Notwithstanding
any provision in the community documents:
1.Membership on a design review committee, an
architectural committee or a committee that performs similar functions, however
denominated, for the planned community shall include at least one member of the
board of directors who shall serve as chairperson of the committee.
2.For new construction of the main residential
structure on a lot or for rebuilds of the main residential structure on a lot
and only in a planned community that has enacted design guidelines,
architectural guidelines or other similar rules, however denominated, and if
the association documents permit the association to charge the member a
security deposit and the association requires the member to pay a security
deposit to secure completion of the member's construction project or compliance
with approved plans, all of the following apply:
(a)The deposit shall be placed in a trust account
with the following instructions:
(i)The cost of the trust account shall be shared
equally between the association and the member.
(ii)If the construction project is abandoned, the board
of directors may determine the appropriate use of any deposit monies.
(iii)Any interest earned on the refundable security
deposit shall become part of the security deposit.
(b)The association or the design review committee
must hold a final design approval meeting for the purpose of issuing approval
of the plans, and the member or member's agent must have the opportunity to
attend the meeting. If the plans are approved, the association's design review
representative shall provide written acknowledgement that the approved plans,
including any approved amendments, are in compliance with all rules and
guidelines in effect at the time of the approval and that the refund of the
deposit requires that construction be completed in accordance with those
approved plans.
(c)The association must provide for at least two
on-site formal reviews during construction for the purpose of determining
compliance with the approved plans.The member or member's agent
shall be provided the opportunity to attend both formal reviews. Within five
business days after the formal reviews, the association shall cause a written
report to be provided to the member or member's agent specifying any
deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations from the approved plans, as amended, that have come to the attention of the
association.
(d)Within thirty business days after the second
formal review, the association shall provide to the member a copy of the
written report specifying any deficiencies, violations or unapproved variations
from the approved plans as amended that have come to the attention of the association.
If the written report does not specify any deficiencies, violations or
unapproved variations from the approved plans, as amended, that have come to
the attention of the association, the association shall promptly release the
deposit monies to the member. If the report identifies any deficiencies,
violations or unapproved variations from the approved plans, as amended, the
association may hold the deposit for one hundred eighty days or until receipt
of a subsequent report of construction compliance, whichever is less. If a
report of construction compliance is received before the one hundred eightieth
day, the association shall promptly release the deposit monies to the member.
If a compliance report is not received within one hundred eighty days, the
association shall release the deposit monies promptly from the trust account to
the association.
(e)Neither the approval of the plans nor the
approval of the actual construction by the association or the design review
committee shall constitute a representation or warranty that the plans or
construction comply with applicable governmental requirements or applicable
engineering, design or safety standards. The association in its discretion may
release all or any part of the deposit to the member before receiving a
compliance report. Release of the deposit to the member does not constitute a
representation or warranty from the association that the construction complies
with the approved plans. END_STATUTE

