







REFERENCE TITLE: use fuel taxes; adjustment







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2493









Introduced by
Representatives
  Bowers: Shope





AN ACT

amending sections
282356, 28-5601 and 28-5603, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section
28-5605, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws 2001, chapter 287, section
13; repealing section 28-5605, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 244, section 29; amending sections 28-5606, 285610,
28-5612, 28-5613, 28-5614 and 28-5615, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
section 28-5617, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 285619 and
28-5620, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 28-5623, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 28-5626, 28-5638 and 28-5731, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to motor fuel taxes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-2356, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2356.Transfer of license plates to another
vehicle; credit; refund
A.Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
owner of a vehicle for which the department provided license plates pursuant to
section 282351 shall retain those license plates when the owner
transfers the vehicle to another person.
B.The owner may apply for a refund or a credit of
the unexpired portion of the fees and taxes as prescribed in this section if
both of the following apply:
1.The owner makes proper application to the
director or to an authorized third party pursuant
to chapter 13 of this title.
2.The owner agrees to allow the department to
deduct a twelve dollar processing fee from the amount of the refund or credit.
C.If the owner applies for a credit as prescribed
in this section, the department may assign the license plates retained pursuant
to subsection A of this section to another vehicle that belongs to the owner if
all of the following apply:
1.The other vehicle is of the same vehicle type.
2.The owner is applying the available credit for
the fees and taxes to one other vehicle the owner owns or acquires.
3.If the available credit exceeds the amount
required to pay the fees and taxes, the department shall issue issues a refund for the remaining amount of
credit as prescribed in this section. The department shall not charge an
additional twelve dollar fee pursuant to subsection B of this section for
issuing a refund under this paragraph.
4.If the vehicle license tax, gross weight fees,
commercial registration fees, special plate fees and motor carrier fees are
more than the similar fees and taxes required to register the vehicle to which
the license plates were previously assigned, the owner pays any additional fees
and taxes required after subtracting any credit allowed under this section.
D.If the other vehicle is not of the same vehicle
type as the vehicle for which the license plates were provided by the department
pursuant to section 282351, the owner shall either surrender the license
plates to the department or an authorized third party or submit an affidavit of
license plate destruction as prescribed by the director. On surrender of the
license plates or submission of an affidavit of license plate destruction, the
department shall provide new license plates of the proper vehicle type to the
owner and credit the owner with an amount equal to the unexpended portion of
the fees and taxes originally paid by the owner for registration and license
plates toward fees and taxes charged for the registration and license plates of
the appropriate new vehicle type.
E.The owner of a registered vehicle who transfers
license plates to another vehicle or who claims a refund pursuant to this
section is entitled to a credit or a refund for the unexpired portion of the
fees and taxes paid as required by law in accordance with the following
conditions:
1.The fees and taxes are prorated on a monthly
basis beginning on the first day of the registration month following the date
of acquisition of the vehicle.
2.The credit or refund shall be an amount computed
as follows:
(a)If the vehicle is registered on an annual basis,
onetwelfth for each full month of the registration period not yet
expired.
(b)If the vehicle is registered on a biennial basis
pursuant to section 282159, onetwentyfourth for each full
month of the registration period not yet expired.
(c)If the vehicle is permanently registered, onetwentyfourth
for each full month after acquisition of the vehicle to the twentyfourth
month after the date of initial permanent registration of the vehicle.
3.The
department deducts from the refund or credit the computed amount that is
prescribed by section 28-5606, subsection D from the use fuel tax adjustment
that is associated with each full month of the registration period not yet
expired.
F.If the owner of a registered vehicle transfers
the vehicle to another person but does not transfer the license plates to another
vehicle, surrender the license plates to the department or an authorized third
party or submit an affidavit of license plate destruction within thirty days of
the transfer as required by section 282058, the unexpired portion of the
fees and taxes shall decrement
decrease pursuant to
subsection D e of this section until the
owner either surrenders the license plates to the department or an authorized
third party or submits an affidavit of license plate destruction.
G.Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, an owner of a registered vehicle who transfers the vehicle to another
person and either surrenders the license plates to the department or an
authorized third party or submits an affidavit of license plate destruction may
apply to the department for a refund of the unexpired portion of the fees and
taxes paid if the owner does not claim a credit pursuant to this section and
the refundable amount calculated pursuant to subsection D of this section
exceeds the twelve dollar fee prescribed in subsection B of this section. If
the department determines that the owner is entitled to a refund, the
department shall send the refund by first class mail to the address provided by
the owner claiming the refund or, if no address is provided, to the latest
address listed on the department's records for the owner claiming the refund.
H.An owner who transfers license plates to another
vehicle pursuant to this section is subject to the same penalties for the use
of the license plates on another vehicle or for improper use of the license
plates as the owner would have been subject to for use of the license plates on
the vehicle to which the plates were previously assigned.
I.The owner of a vehicle registered in this state
is not entitled to a credit or a refund pursuant to this section if the vehicle
is registered in another state unless the owner is applying the credit pursuant
to this section to another vehicle the owner owns or acquires for registration
in this state.
J.The director shall adopt rules necessary to
administer this section.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-5601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5601.Definitions
In this article and articles 2 and 5 of this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Blending":
(a)Means the mixing of one or more products,
regardless of the original character of the product blended, if the product
obtained by the blending is capable of use or otherwise sold for use in the
generation of power for the propulsion of a motor vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft.
(b)Does not include blending that occurs in the
process of refining by the original refiner of crude petroleum or the blending of
products known as lubricating oil and greases.
2."Bulk end user" means a person who
receives into the person's own storage facilities in transport truck lots motor
fuel for the person's own consumption.
3."Bulk plant" means a motor fuel storage
and distribution facility that is not a terminal and from which motor fuel may
be removed at a rack.
4."Bulk transfer" means any transfer of
motor fuel from one location to another by pipeline tender or marine delivery
within the bulk transfer terminal system.
5."Bulk transfer terminal system" means
the motor fuel distribution system consisting of refineries, pipelines, marine
vessels and terminals. Motor fuel in a refinery, pipeline, vessel or terminal
is in the bulk transfer terminal system.Motor fuel in the fuel
supply tank of any engine, or in any tank car, rail car, trailer, truck or
other equipment suitable for ground transportation, is not in the bulk transfer
terminal system.
6."Consumer" means the end purchaser of
motor vehicle fuel for use on the highways in this state, the end purchaser of
motor vehicle fuel for use in watercraft on waterways of this state or the end
purchaser of aviation fuel for use in aircraft.
7."Destination state" means the state,
territory or foreign country to which motor fuel is directed for delivery into
a storage facility, a receptacle, a container or a type of transportation
equipment for the purpose of resale or use.
8."Distributor" means a person who
acquires motor fuel from a supplier or another distributor for subsequent sale
or use and who may blend or import into or export from this state motor fuel in
the original package or container or otherwise but excluding a person who
imports motor fuel in the fuel tank of a motor vehicle or aircraft.
9."Dyed diesel fuel" means diesel fuel
that is dyed pursuant to United States internal revenue service regulations or
requirements, including any invisible marker requirements.
10."Fuel tank" means a receptacle on a
motor vehicle, watercraft or aircraft from which fuel is supplied for the
propulsion of the motor vehicle, watercraft or aircraft, excluding a cargo tank
but including a separate compartment of a cargo tank used as a fuel tank and an
auxiliary tank or receptacle of any kind from which fuel is supplied for the
propulsion of the motor vehicle, watercraft or aircraft, whether or not the
tank or receptacle is directly connected to the fuel supply line of the motor
vehicle, watercraft or aircraft.
11."Highway" means any way or place in
this state of whatever nature that is maintained by public monies and that is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel, including a
highway under construction.
12."In this state" means any way or place
within the exterior limits of the state of Arizona that is maintained by public
monies, including any such way or place that is owned by or ceded to the United
States of America.
13."Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of Indian tribes by treaty, law or executive order
and that are currently recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
14."Indian tribe" means any organized
nation, tribe, band or community recognized as an Indian tribe by the United
States department of the interior.
15."Interstate user" means a person
registering a use class motor vehicle under chapter 7, article 7 or 8 of this
title or section 282321 or 282324.
16."Invoiced gallons" means the gallons
actually billed on an invoice in payment to a supplier.
17."Light class motor vehicle" means a
motor vehicle that uses use fuel on the highways in this state but excludes a
road tractor, truck tractor, truck or passenger carrying vehicle having a declared
gross vehicle weight of more than twentysix thousand pounds or having
more than two axles.
18."Motor fuel" means motor vehicle fuel,
use fuel and aviation fuel.
19."Motor vehicle" means a selfpropelled
vehicle required to be licensed or subject to licensing for operation on a
highway.
20."Permissive supplier" means an outofstate
supplier that elects, but is not required, to have a supplier's license
pursuant to this article.
21."Person" means an individual, firm,
partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver or syndicate, this state, any county, city, town, district or
other subdivision of this state, an Indian tribe, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
22."Position holder":
(a)Means the person who holds the inventory
position in motor fuel in a terminal, as reflected on the records of the
terminal operator.For the purposes of this subdivision, "a
person who holds the inventory position in motor fuel" means a person who
has a contract with the terminal operator for the use of storage facilities and
terminaling services for fuel at the terminal.
(b)Includes a terminal operator who owns fuel in
the terminal.
23."Public monies" means those monies
that are received by this state and that are derived all or in part from tax
revenues or other funding sources.
24."Qualified terminal" means a terminal
that is designated as a qualified terminal pursuant to the United States
internal revenue code, regulation and practices and that has been assigned a
terminal control number by the United States internal revenue service.
25."Rack" means a mechanism for
delivering motor fuel from a refinery, a terminal or a bulk plant into a
railroad tank car, a transport truck or other means of transfer that is outside
the bulk transfer terminal system.
26."Refiner" means any person who owns,
operates or otherwise controls a refinery within the United States.
27."Refinery" means a facility that is
used to produce motor fuel from crude oil, unfinished oils, natural gas
liquids, transmix or other hydrocarbons or by blending and from which motor
fuel may be removed by pipeline, by vessel or at a rack.
28."Road tractor" means a motor vehicle
that is designed and used for drawing other vehicles and that is not
constructed to carry either a load independently or any part of the weight of a
vehicle or load so drawn.
29."Sell" includes a transfer of title or
possession, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means.
30."Supplier":
(a)Means a person who is
registered pursuant to section 4101 of the United States internal revenue code
for transactions in motor fuels in the bulk transfer terminal distribution
system and who is one of the following:
(i)The position holder in a terminal or refinery in
this state.
(ii)A person who imports motor fuel into this state
from a foreign country.
(iii)A person who acquires motor fuel from a
terminal or refinery in this state from a position holder pursuant to a two
party exchange.
(iv)The position holder in a terminal or refinery
outside this state with respect to motor fuel that that person imports into
this state on the account of that person.
(b)Includes a permissive supplier unless
specifically provided otherwise. Supplier does not include a terminal operator
merely because the terminal operator handles motor fuel consigned to the
terminal operator within a terminal.
31."Terminal" means a storage and
distribution facility for motor fuel, which is supplied by pipeline or marine
vessel, that is registered as a qualified terminal by the United States
internal revenue service and from which motor fuel may be removed at a rack.
32."Terminal bulk transfer" includes the
following:
(a)A marine barge movement of motor fuel from a
refinery or terminal to a terminal.
(b)Pipeline movements of motor fuel from a refinery
or terminal to a terminal.
33."Terminal operator" means any person
who owns, operates or otherwise controls a terminal and who does not use a
substantial portion of the motor fuel that is transferred through or stored in
the terminal for the person's own use or consumption or in the manufacture of
products other than motor fuel.A terminal operator may own the
motor fuel that is transferred through or stored in the terminal.
34."Transmix" means the buffer or
interface between two different products in a pipeline shipment or a mix of two
different products within a refinery or terminal that results in an offgrade
mixture that is not usable or salable as motor fuel.
35."Two party exchange" means a
transaction:
(a)In which motor fuel is transferred from one
licensed supplier or licensed permissive supplier to another licensed supplier
or licensed permissive supplier.
(b)That includes a transfer from the person that
holds the original inventory position for motor fuel in the terminal as
reflected on the records of the terminal operator.
(c)That is simultaneous with removal from the
terminal by the receiving exchange party.
(d)In which the terminal operator in the terminal
operator's books and records treats the receiving exchange party as the
supplier that removes the product across a terminal rack for purposes of
reporting the events to the department.
36."Use" includes the placing of fuel
into any receptacle on a motor vehicle from which fuel is supplied for the
propulsion of the vehicle unless the operator of the vehicle establishes to the
satisfaction of the director that the fuel was consumed for a purpose other
than to propel a motor vehicle on a highway in this state and, with respect to
fuel brought into this state in any such receptacle on a use class motor
vehicle, the consumption of the fuel in this state. A person who places fuel
in a receptacle on a use class motor vehicle of another is not deemed to have
used the fuel.
37."Use class motor vehicle" means a
motor vehicle that uses use fuel on a highway in this state and that is a road
tractor, truck tractor, truck or passenger carrying vehicle having a declared
gross vehicle weight of more than twentysix thousand pounds or having
more than two axles.
38."Use fuel" includes all gases and
liquids used or suitable for use to propel motor vehicles, except fuels that
are subject to the motor vehicle fuel tax imposed by this article.
39."User" includes a person who, within
the meaning of the term use as defined in this section, uses fuel in a use
class motor vehicle.
40."Vendor"
includes a person who sells use fuel in this state and who places the fuel or
causes the fuel to be placed into any receptacle on a motor vehicle from which
receptacle fuel is supplied for the propulsion, including a service station
dealer, a broker and a user who sells use fuel to others.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-5603, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5603.Motor fuel testing
A.The
director may take samples of any liquid believed to be motor fuel and may make
or cause to be made an analysis of the liquid.
B.The chemistry
department or other qualified department of the university of Arizona shall:
1.Analyze
samples on request of the director.
2.Promptly
furnish to the director a full report of the analysis without cost.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
A.Section 28-5605,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws 2001, chapter 287, section 13 is
repealed.
B.Section 28-5605, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 244, section 29 is repealed.
Sec.5.Section 28-5606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5606.Imposition of motor fuel taxes; use fuel tax adjustment
A.In addition to all other taxes provided by law, a
motor vehicle fuel tax of
eighteen cents per gallon is imposed on motor vehicle fuel possessed, used or
consumed in this state.
B.To partially compensate this state for the use of
its highways:
1.A use fuel
tax is imposed on use fuel used in the propulsion of a light class motor
vehicle on a highway in this state at the same rate per gallon as the motor
vehicle fuel tax prescribed in subsection A of this section, except that there
is no use fuel tax on alternative fuels.
2.1.A use
fuel tax is imposed on use fuel used in the propulsion of a use class motor
vehicle or a light class motor vehicle on
a highway in this state at the rate of twentysix cents for each gallon,
except that there is no use fuel tax on alternative fuels and use class vehicles that are exempt pursuant to section 285432
from the weight fee prescribed in section 285433 are subject to the use
fuel tax imposed by paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.2.Through
December 31, 2024, a use fuel tax is imposed on use fuel used in the propulsion
of a motor vehicle transporting forest products in compliance with the
requirements of section 41-1516 on a highway in this state at the rate of nine
cents for each gallon, except that there is no use fuel tax on alternative
fuels.
C.The owner
of a light class motor vehicle that is propelled by use fuel or of a use class
motor vehicle that is propelled by use fuel and that is exempt pursuant to
section 28-5432 from the weight fee prescribed in section 28-5433 is eligible
at the time of vehicle registration to collect a use fuel tax adjustment of
seventy dollars per registration year.
D.If an
owner of a vehicle described in subsection C of this section requests a refund
as prescribed in section 28-2356, the department shall deduct from the refund
the computed amount as follows:
1.If the
vehicle is registered for a one year registration period pursuant to section
28-2159, one-twelfth for each full month of the registration period not yet
expired.
2.If the
vehicle is registered for a two year registration period pursuant to section
28-2159, one-twenty-fourth for each full month of the registration period not
yet expired.
3.If the
vehicle is registered for a five year registration period pursuant to section
28-2159, one-sixtieth for each full month of the registration period not yet
expired.
C.E.The
motor vehicle fuel and use fuel taxes imposed pursuant to this section and the
aviation fuel taxes imposed pursuant to section 288344 are conclusively
presumed to be direct taxes on the consumer or user but shall be collected and
remitted to the department by suppliers for the purpose of convenience and
facility only. Motor vehicle fuel, use fuel and aviation fuel taxes that are
collected and paid to the department by a supplier are considered to be advance
payments, shall be added to the price of motor vehicle fuel, use fuel or
aviation fuel and shall be recovered from the consumer or user.
D.F.Motor
vehicle fuel and use fuel taxes imposed pursuant to this section on the use of
motor vehicle fuel and use fuel and the aviation fuel taxes imposed pursuant to
section 288344 on the use of aviation fuel, other than by bulk transfer,
arise at the time the motor vehicle, use or aviation fuel either:
1.Is imported into this state and is measured by
invoiced gallons received outside this state at a refinery, terminal or bulk
plant for delivery to a destination in this state.
2.Is removed, as measured by invoiced gallons, from
the bulk transfer terminal system or from a qualified terminal in this state.
3.Is removed, as measured by invoiced gallons, from
the bulk transfer terminal system or from a qualified terminal or refinery
outside this state for delivery to a destination in this state as represented
on the shipping papers if a supplier imports the motor vehicle, use or aviation
fuel for the account of the supplier or the supplier has made a tax
precollection election pursuant to section 285636.
E.G.If
motor fuel is removed from the bulk transfer terminal system or from a
qualified terminal or is imported into this state, the original removal,
transfer or importation of the motor fuel is subject to the collection of the
tax.If this motor fuel is transported to another qualified terminal
or reenters the bulk transfer terminal system, the subsequent sale of the motor
fuel on which tax has been collected is not subject to collection of an
additional tax if proper documentation is retained to support the transaction. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 28-5610, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5610.Exemptions
A.The following are exempt from motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel taxes imposed by section 285606 and aviation fuel taxes
imposed by section 288344:
1.Motor fuel for which proof of export is available
in the form of a terminalissued destination state shipping paper or bill
of lading and that is either:
(a)Exported by a supplier who is licensed in the
destination state.
(b)Sold by a supplier to a distributor for
immediate export.
2.Motor fuel that was acquired by a distributor, as
to which the tax imposed by this article or section 288344 has
previously been paid or accrued and that was subsequently exported by transport
truck by or on behalf of the distributor in a diversion across state boundaries
properly reported to the department.If diverted by a distributor,
the distributor shall perfect the exemption by filing a refund application with
the department within six months after the diversion.
3.Motor vehicle fuel or use fuel that is sold
within an Indian reservation to an enrolled member of the Indian tribe who is
living on the Indian reservation established for the benefit of that Indian
tribe and that is used by the enrolled member for the enrolled member's own
benefit.This exemption does not apply to sales within an Indian
reservation by an Indian or Indian tribe to nonIndian consumers or to
Indian consumers who are not members of the Indian tribe for which the Indian
reservation was established or to use fuel used to operate motor vehicles for a
commercial purpose outside of the reservation on highways in this
state.For the purposes of this paragraph, "Indian" means
an individual who is registered on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for
whose benefit the Indian reservation was created.
4.Motor vehicle fuel or use fuel used solely and
exclusively as fuel to operate a motor vehicle on highways in this state if the
motor vehicle is leased to or owned by and is being operated for the sole
benefit of an Indian tribe for governmental purposes only.
5.Motor fuel that is moving in interstate or
foreign commerce and that is not destined or diverted to a point in this state.
6.Motor vehicle or aviation fuel that is sold to
the United States or an instrumentality or agency of the United States.
7.Taxable use fuel that has been accidentally
contaminated so as to be unsalable as highway fuel as proved by proper
documentation.
8.Dyed diesel fuel, including fuel used by either
of the following:
(a)A farm tractor or implement of husbandry
designed primarily for or used in agricultural operations and only incidentally
operated or moved on a highway.
(b)A road roller or vehicle that is all of the
following:
(i)Designed and used primarily for grading, paving,
earthmoving or other construction work on a highway.
(ii)Not designed or used primarily for
transportation of persons or property.
(iii)Incidentally operated or moved over the
highway.
B.A use class
vehicle shall pay the use fuel tax for light class motor vehicles prescribed by
section 28-5606, subsection B, paragraph 1 if the vehicle is a truck and
satisfies all of the following:
1.Is at least
twenty-five years old.
2.Has been
issued a historic vehicle license plate pursuant to section 28-2484.
3.Is not used
as a commercial vehicle.
C.B.Notwithstanding
subsection A, paragraph 8 of this section, the following are not exempt from
use fuel taxes imposed by section 285606:
1.A vehicle that was originally designed for the
transportation of persons or property and to which machinery is attached or on
which machinery or other property may be transported.
2.A dump truck.
3.A truck mounted transit mixer.
4.A truck or trailer mounted crane.
5.A truck or trailer mounted shovel.
D.C.Except
as provided in subsection E
D of this section, a
person who claims an exemption pursuant to this section shall perfect the
exemption by claiming a refund pursuant to section 285612.
E.D.Subject
to sections 285645 through 285649, dyed diesel fuel is exempt
from use fuel taxes at the time of sale. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 28-5612, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5612.Refund procedure; violation
A.A person who is seeking a refund and who is not
licensed as a supplier, interstate user, or restricted distributor or use fuel vendor shall:
1.File an application with the director within six
months after the date of sale.
2.Submit proof satisfactory to the director of the
following:
(a)The purpose for which the fuel was used.
(b)The tax paid purchase.
3.Make an application in a form prescribed by the
department that requests the following information:
(a)Name and address of the claimant.
(b)Period covered by the claim showing dates.
(c)Location of equipment, if applicable.
(d)Gallons on which a refund is claimed.
(e)Amount of the refund claimed.
(f)Other information required by the director.
B.The claim shall not be under oath but shall
contain or be accompanied by a written declaration that it is made under
penalties of perjury and, if it is for motor vehicle fuel, that it complies in
all respects with section 285611 relating to refunds.
C.The original invoice or a duplicate that is
satisfactory to the director and that includes the following information shall
accompany the application:
1.The date of purchase.
2.The seller's name and address.
3.The number of gallons purchased.
4.The type of fuel purchased.
5.The price per gallon of the fuel.
6.Other information required by the director.
D.If a person files a claim for a refund pursuant
to this section for motor fuel exported, the person shall make satisfactory
proof of export to the director and file the claim within three months after
the date of export in the form and containing the information required by the
director. The original invoice or an acceptable duplicate shall accompany the
claim.
E.The director shall accept only one application
for refund of motor fuel taxes for any one person within a six month six-month period if the aggregate total of all
motor fuel taxes paid and for which a refund is claimed does not equal at least
ten dollars.
F.If a person who is exempt from use fuel taxes
pursuant to section 285610 submits a claim for a refund pursuant to this
section for use fuel taxes, the department shall not pay the refund until the
department determines the difference between the amount of the refund and the
amount of the use tax that is imposed under title 42, chapter 5, article 4 on
the fuel exempt from use fuel taxes if owed by the person.If the
department determines that the amount of the refund is greater than the amount
owed for the use tax, the department shall deposit the amount owed for the use
tax pursuant to subsection M of this section and refund the amount of the
difference to the person. If the department of transportation determines that the amount
of the refund is less than the amount owed for the use tax, the department of transportation shall forward
any balance due information to the department of revenue for collection.
G.Except as provided in subsection F of this
section, if the director does not issue a refund within sixty days after a
complete application for refund is filed as prescribed in this article, the
director shall pay interest at the rate of eleven per cent percent per year from the date the complete application for
refund is filed until the date on which the refund is made.
H.If the director denies a refund, the director
shall notify the claimant that the refund is denied. The director's denial is
final unless the applicant makes a written request for a hearing as prescribed
in section 285924.
I.It is unlawful for a person to knowingly operate
a motor vehicle on the highways or a watercraft on the waterways using motor
vehicle fuel or use fuel that has been sold to a person making a claim pursuant
to this section.
J.In addition to other penalties prescribed by law,
the director shall not give a person who violates this section a refund on
motor fuel purchased during the six months succeeding the date the director
advises the person by mail of the director's discovery of the violation.
K.A person whose right to a refund is suspended may
bring an action in superior court in Maricopa County to set aside the
suspension.
L.The director may recover excess refunds from the
person to whom the refund was made.The director shall assess the
claimant the amount of the excess refund and interest.The director
shall compute interest at one per cent
percent per month of the
amount of excess refund due beginning on the date of refund and until the date
the assessment is paid. 
M.The department of transportation shall deposit,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, use tax revenues collected
pursuant to subsection F of this section in the state general fund by the end
of each month and notify the department of revenue of the amount of use tax
collected each month. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 28-5613, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5613.Licensee refunds; definition
A.A licensee who is seeking a refund shall apply
pursuant to section 285612, except that a licensee shall file an
application for refund within three years after the date of purchase or invoice
of the motor fuel for which a refund is claimed.
B.For the purposes of this section,
"licensee" includes a supplier, an interstate user,
or a restricted distributor or a licensed use fuel vendor. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 28-5614, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5614.Refunds; use fuel
A.If a vendor
pays the use fuel tax rate for use class motor vehicles on use fuel that is
actually used in the propulsion of a light class motor vehicle on a highway in
this state or that is actually used in the propulsion of a use class motor
vehicle that is exempt pursuant to section 285432 from the weight fee
prescribed in section 285433 on a highway in this state and for the
purpose of convenience and facility only, the vendor may apply to the
department for a refund of
the difference between the amount of the use class motor vehicle use fuel tax
paid and the amount of the light class motor vehicle use fuel tax on the same
number of gallons purchased. 
B.A.If a person
who transports forest products on a highway in this state in compliance with
the requirements of section 411516 pays the use fuel tax rate prescribed
in section 285606, subsection B, paragraph 2
1 for a use class motor vehicle that is eligible for the use fuel
tax rate prescribed in section 285606, subsection B, paragraph 3 2, the person may apply to the department for
a refund of the difference between the amount of the use fuel tax paid and the
use fuel tax rate prescribed for a motor vehicle transporting forest products.
C.B.The
director may prescribe any forms the director deems necessary to implement this
section.
D.A vendor
may file an application for a refund pursuant to this section either:
1.On a
monthly basis subject to the limitations prescribed in section 285612.
2.If the
amount of the requested refund is at least seven hundred fifty dollars, except
that a vendor shall not file an application for a refund pursuant to this
paragraph more frequently than once each week.
E.C.The
director shall:
1.Pay the refund from current use fuel tax
receipts.
2.Deduct the refund from the monthly use fuel tax
receipts before the deposit pursuant to section 285730 is made. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 28-5615, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5615.Presumption of use
A.For
the proper administration of this article and to prevent evasion of the use
fuel tax, it is presumed, until the contrary is established by competent proof
under rules and procedures the director adopts, that all use fuel received into
any receptacle on a motor vehicle from which fuel is supplied to propel the
vehicle is consumed in propelling the vehicle on the highways in this state.
B.If a
vendor's dealings in use fuel primarily involve delivery of use fuel into the
fuel tanks of motor vehicles it is presumed, until the contrary is established
by competent proof under rules and procedures the director adopts, that the
vendor's total use fuel acquisitions have been delivered into the fuel tanks of
motor vehicles for the propulsion of the vehicles on the public highways.END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Repeal
Section 28-5617,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.12.Section 28-5619, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5619.Records required; violation; classification
A.Suppliers and restricted distributors shall
maintain and keep records of motor vehicle fuel or aviation fuel received,
acquired, used, sold and delivered in this state by the supplier or restricted
distributor, the amount of tax paid as part of the purchase price, invoices,
bills of lading and other pertinent records and papers required by the director
for the reasonable administration of this article at least until the later of
the following:
1.Three years after a report is required to be
filed pursuant to this article.
2.Three years after a report is filed.
B.Any person, other than a restricted distributor,
purchasing motor vehicle fuel taxable under this article or aviation fuel
taxable under section 288344 from a supplier for the purpose of resale
shall maintain and keep for one year a record of motor vehicle fuel or aviation
fuel received, the amount of tax paid to the supplier as part of the purchase
price, delivery tickets, invoices, bills of lading and other records the
director requires.
C.Each distributor and vendor shall maintain and keep for three
years the following:
1.Records of use fuel received, sold or delivered
in this state by the distributor or
vendor.
2.Invoices, bills of lading and other pertinent
records and papers required by the director for the reasonable administration
of this article.
D.The director may require distributors to file
information as to sales or deliveries to vendors
or users of use fuel at the times and in the form as the director requires.
E.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 28-5620, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5620.Records and equipment inspections; hearings; costs
A.The director or a deputy, employee or agent
authorized by the director may examine during usual business hours records,
books, papers, storage tanks and any other equipment of a person pertaining to
motor fuel imported, received, sold, shipped, delivered or used to either:
1.Verify the truth and accuracy of a statement,
report, return or claim.
2.Ascertain whether the tax imposed by this article
or section 288344 has been paid.
3.Determine the financial responsibility of the
supplier for the payment of the taxes imposed by this article or section 288344.
4.Determine the validity of a refund.
B.In the enforcement of this article, the director
may hold hearings, take testimony of persons, issue subpoenas for the purpose
of taking testimony, compel attendance of witnesses and conduct investigations
the director deems necessary.
C.The director may prescribe forms for required
reports or claims for refund or forms of record to be used by suppliers,
distributors, restricted distributors,
vendors or refund claimants.
D.Records required by this article may be
maintained in this state.If the records are maintained outside this
state and on request of the director, the records shall be made available at a
location in this state designated by the director. If the records are
maintained outside this state and will not be made available at the location
designated by the director, the director may require the person to whom a
records request has been made to pay in advance costs reimbursable for
subsistence and travel expenses for the director or an agent of the director to
conduct the examination of the records. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Repeal
Section 28-5623,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.15.Section 28-5626, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5626.Suppliers; licenses required
A.Except as provided in section 285607, a
person who acts as a distributor and who possesses motor fuel on which fuel
taxes have not been accrued or collected by a supplier shall be licensed as a
supplier.
B.It is unlawful for a person to engage in business
in this state as a supplier, unless the person has a license issued by the
director to engage in that business.
C.A person
who sells use fuel for delivery directly into a vehicle fuel tank shall also be
licensed as a vendor and shall maintain separate business records.
END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 28-5638, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5638.Deferred remittance election eligibility
A.Each purchaser that desires to make an election
under section 285637 shall present evidence to the department that
either:
1.The applicant was a licensed distributor in good
standing before January 1, 1998.
2.The applicant meets the financial responsibility
and bonding requirements imposed by this article.The bond shall
conform to the specific requirements of this section.
B.The department may require a purchaser that pays
the tax to a supplier to file with the department a surety bond that is payable
to this state and on which the purchaser is the obligor, or other financial
security, in an amount satisfactory to the department.The
department may require that the bond indemnify the department against
uncollectible tax credits claimed by the supplier under section 285639.
C.The department may rescind a purchaser's
eligibility and election to defer motor vehicle or aviation fuel tax
remittances after a hearing and on a showing of good cause, including failure
to make a timely tax deferred payment of tax to a supplier under section 285637,
by sending written notice to all suppliers or publishing notice of the
revocation pursuant to rules. The department may require further assurance of
the financial responsibility of the purchaser, may increase the bond
requirement for that purchaser or may take any other action that the department
may require to ensure remittance of the motor vehicle or aviation fuel tax. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section
28-5731, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5731.Record requirements
A.A licensee under
this article shall make records as prescribed and in the manner required by the
director as reasonably necessary to substantiate reports required by this
article. A licensee shall retain those records at least until the later of the
following:
1.Three years after a report is required to be
filed pursuant to section 285732.
2.Three years after a report is filed.
B.The records
shall include receipts pursuant to section 285617 for each sale or
transfer of use fuel for use in a use class motor vehicle. In addition to the
information required by section 285617, a licensee shall identify the
motor vehicle by license plate number or unit number on the receipt or
transaction listing.
C.B.The
director may examine the books, papers, records and equipment of any person
using, dealing in, transporting or storing fuel to determine whether the use
fuel taxes due under article 1 of this chapter are properly reported and paid.
D.C.A
person from whom the director has requested records may:
1.Make the records available at the office
designated by the director.
2.If the place of business where records may be
audited is located in this state, request the director to audit the records at
the person's place of business.
E.D.If
the person does not make records available at the office designated by the
director and the place of business where records may be audited is located
outside this state, the director may require the person to pay the department
in advance for the cost of reimbursing employee subsistence and travel
expenses. END_STATUTE

