







REFERENCE TITLE: prohibited weapon; definition;
  exclusions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2446









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston, Barton, Borrelli, Coleman, Fann, Montenegro: Allen J, Bowers,
  Campbell, Kern, Larkin, Lawrence, Lovas, Mesnard, Mitchell, Norgaard, Rivero,
  Shope, Senators Allen S, Burges





AN ACT

amending section
13-3101, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to firearms.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3101.Definitions
A.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Deadly weapon" means anything that is
designed for lethal use. The term includes a firearm.
2."Deface" means to remove, alter or
destroy the manufacturer's serial number.
3."Explosive" means any dynamite,
nitroglycerine, black powder, or other similar explosive material, including
plastic explosives. Explosive does not include ammunition or ammunition
components such as primers, percussion caps, smokeless powder, black powder and
black powder substitutes used for hand loading purposes.
4."Firearm" means any loaded or unloaded
handgun, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other weapon that will expel, is
designed to expel or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the
action of an explosive. Firearm does not include a firearm in permanently
inoperable condition.
5."Improvised explosive device" means a
device that incorporates explosives or destructive, lethal, noxious,
pyrotechnic or incendiary chemicals and that is designed to destroy, disfigure,
terrify or harass.
6."Occupied structure" means any
building, object, vehicle, watercraft, aircraft or place with sides and a floor
that is separately securable from any other structure attached to it, that is
used for lodging, business, transportation, recreation or storage and in which
one or more human beings either are or are likely to be present or so near as
to be in equivalent danger at the time the discharge of a firearm occurs.
Occupied structure includes any dwelling house, whether occupied, unoccupied or
vacant.
7."Prohibited possessor" means any
person:
(a)Who has been found to constitute a danger to
self or to others or to have a persistent
or acute disabilities disability or grave disabilities disability pursuant to court order pursuant to
section 36540, and whose right to possess a firearm has not been
restored pursuant to section 13925.
(b)Who has been convicted within or without this
state of a felony or who has been adjudicated delinquent for a felony and whose
civil right to possess or carry a gun or firearm has not been restored.
(c)Who is at the time of possession serving a term
of imprisonment in any correctional or detention facility.
(d)Who is at the time of possession serving a term
of probation pursuant to a conviction for a domestic violence offense as
defined in section 133601 or a felony offense, parole, community
supervision, work furlough, home arrest or release on any other basis or who is
serving a term of probation or parole pursuant to the interstate compact under
title 31, chapter 3, article 4.1.
(e)Who is an undocumented alien or a nonimmigrant
alien traveling with or without documentation in this state for business or
pleasure or who is studying in this state and who maintains a foreign residence
abroad. This subdivision does not apply to:
(i)Nonimmigrant aliens who possess a valid hunting
license or permit that is lawfully issued by a state in the United States.
(ii)Nonimmigrant aliens who enter the United States
to participate in a competitive target shooting event or to display firearms at
a sports or hunting trade show that is sponsored by a national, state or local
firearms trade organization devoted to the competitive use or other sporting
use of firearms.
(iii)Certain diplomats.
(iv)Officials of foreign governments or
distinguished foreign visitors who are designated by the United States
department of state.
(v)Persons who have received a waiver from the
United States attorney general.
(f)Who has been found incompetent pursuant to rule
11, Arizona rules of criminal procedure, and who subsequently has not been
found competent.
(g)Who is found guilty except insane.
8."Prohibited weapon":
(a)Includes the following:
(i)An item that is a bomb, grenade, rocket having a
propellant charge of more than four ounces or mine and that is explosive,
incendiary or poison gas.
(ii)A device that is designed, made or adapted to
muffle the report of a firearm.
(iii)A firearm that is capable of shooting more
than one shot automatically, without manual reloading, by a single function of
the trigger.
(iv)A rifle with a barrel length of less than
sixteen inches, or shotgun with a barrel length of less than eighteen inches,
or any firearm that is made from a rifle or shotgun and that, as modified, has
an overall length of less than twentysix inches.
(v)An instrument, including a nunchaku, that
consists of two or more sticks, clubs, bars or rods to be used as handles,
connected by a rope, cord, wire or chain, in the design of a weapon used in
connection with the practice of a system of selfdefense.
(vi)A breakable container that contains a flammable
liquid with a flash point of one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit or less and
that has a wick or similar device capable of being ignited.
(vii)A chemical or combination of chemicals,
compounds or materials, including dry ice, that is possessed or manufactured
for the purpose of generating a gas to cause a mechanical failure, rupture or
bursting or an explosion or detonation of the chemical or combination of
chemicals, compounds or materials.
(viii)An improvised
explosive device.
(ix)Any combination
of parts or materials that is designed and intended for use in making or
converting a device into an item set forth in item (i), (vi) or (viii) of this
subdivision.
(b)Does not include:
(i)Any fireworks that are imported, distributed or
used in compliance with state laws or local ordinances.
(ii)Any propellant, propellant actuated devices or
propellant actuated industrial tools that are manufactured, imported or distributed
for their intended purposes.
(iii)A device that is commercially manufactured
primarily for the purpose of illumination.
9."Trafficking" means to sell, transfer,
distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of a weapon or explosive to another
person, or to buy, receive, possess or obtain control of a weapon or explosive,
with the intent to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of
the weapon or explosive to another person.
B.The items set forth in subsection A, paragraph 8,
subdivision (a), items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section do not include
any firearms or devices that are registered
in the national firearms registry and transfer records of the United States
treasury department or any firearm that has been classified as a curio or relic
by the United States treasury department possessed in compliance with the national firearms act, 26
United States Code sections 5801 through 5872, or for which an application to
make or transfer a firearm under the national firearms act is pending.
END_STATUTE

