







REFERENCE TITLE: county floodplain regulations; mobile
  homes







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2474









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley, Coleman





AN ACT

amending section
48-3609, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to county flood control districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-3609, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-3609.Floodplain delineation; regulation of use; federal
requirements and definitions
A.Except as provided in section 483610, the
board within its area of jurisdiction shall delineate or may by rule require
developers of land to delineate for areas where development is ongoing or
imminent, and thereafter as development becomes imminent, floodplains
consistent with the criteria developed by the director of water resources.
B.Except as provided in section 483610, the
board shall adopt and enforce regulations governing floodplains and floodplain
management in its area of jurisdiction which shall include the following:
1.Regulations for all development of land,
construction of residential, commercial or industrial structures or uses of any
kind which may divert, retard or obstruct floodwater and threaten public health
or safety or the general welfare.
2.Regulations which establish minimum flood
protection elevations and flood damage prevention requirements for uses,
structures and facilities which are vulnerable to flood
damage.Regulations adopted under this section shall comply with
state and local land use plans and ordinances, if any.
3.Regulations which provide for coordination by the
district with all other interested and affected political subdivisions and
state agencies.
4.Regulations that require any residential
structure built in a floodplain to be constructed so as to place the lowest
floor elevation of the structure at or above the regulatory flood elevation,
that require commercial or industrial structures to be flood proofed or
elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation and that prohibit any
activity in a designated floodway, including fill, that would increase the water
surface elevation during a base flood.
5.Regulations to allow a mobile home located in a
floodplain on August 3, 1984 to be replaced by another mobile home if:
(a)For a
mobile home located in a mobile home park or a subdivision on August 3, 1984, all
of the following apply:
(i)No mobile home located in that
mobile home park or subdivision was damaged by a flood to more than fifty
percent of its value before the flood.
(ii)The mobile home to be replaced
is located in a city or town with a population of less than five thousand
persons in a county with a population of less than fifty thousand persons.
(iii)The replacement mobile home is
elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the lowest point of any
attached appliances, whichever is lower, is at or above the base flood
elevation or the mobile home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of equivalent strength that are not less than thirty-six
inches in height above grade and that are securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(iv)The governing body of the city
or town by majority vote does not exempt that city or town from this
subdivision and the city or town is not required to adopt the regulation.
(b)For a mobile home that is not
located in a mobile home park or a subdivision on August 3, 1984, all of the
following apply:
(a)(i)The mobile home to be replaced
was not damaged by a flood to more than fifty per cent percent of its value before the flood.
(b)(ii)The replacement mobile home is
elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the lowest point of any
attached appliances, whichever is lower, is at or above the regulatory flood
elevation.
6.Regulations that require all new placement of
mobile homes to be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or movement.
7.Variance procedures to permit variances from the
regulations that do not result in danger or damage to persons or property in
floodplains in the area of jurisdiction.Variances may be granted
only if special circumstances, such as size, shape, topography, location or
surroundings of the property, would cause the strict application of the
regulations to deprive the property of privileges enjoyed by similar property
in the floodplain.A variance is subject to conditions to ensure
that the variance does not constitute a grant of special privileges
inconsistent with the limitations on similar property in the floodplain.
C.Waste disposal systems shall not be installed
wholly or partially in a regulatory floodway.
D.Water supply, water treatment and sewage
collection and disposal systems built in a regulatory floodplain shall be
designed to prevent or minimize floodwater infiltrating the systems and to prevent
or minimize floodwater contamination during the base flood.
E.Floodplain regulations enacted pursuant to this
article may only be adopted after a public hearing at which parties in interest
and other citizens have an opportunity to be heard. At least thirty days
before the hearing, a notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county or, if no
newspaper of general circulation is regularly published, in a newspaper of
general circulation nearest the area of jurisdiction.A notice of
any hearing accompanied by a copy of each of the proposed regulations shall be
furnished to the director at least thirty days before the date of the hearing.
A copy of any regulation adopted by a district pursuant to this article shall
within five days thereafter be filed with the director and with each political
subdivision and municipal corporation in the area of jurisdiction.
F.All development of land, construction of
residential, commercial or industrial structures or future development within
delineated floodplain areas is prohibited unless floodplain regulations have
been adopted pursuant to this article for such floodplain area and are in full
force and effect.
G.Before adopting regulations the board may issue a
special permit authorizing construction or development if the board finds that
construction or development is not a danger to persons or property.
H.Unless expressly provided, this article and any
regulations adopted pursuant to this article do not affect:
1.Existing legal uses of property or the right to
continuation of such legal use. However, if a nonconforming use of land or a
building or structure is discontinued for twelve months or destroyed to the
extent of fifty per cent percent of its value, as
determined by a competent appraiser, any further use shall comply with this
article and regulations of the district.
2.Reasonable repair or alteration of property for
the purposes for which the property was legally used on August 3, 1984 or on
the date any regulations affecting such property take effect, except that any
alteration, addition or repair to a nonconforming building or structure which
would result in increasing its flood damage potential by fifty per cent percent or more shall be either flood proofed or elevated
to or above the regulatory flood elevation.
3.Reasonable repair of structures constructed with
the written authorization required by section 483613.
4.Facilities constructed or installed pursuant to a
certificate of environmental compatibility issued pursuant to title 40, chapter
2, article6.2.
I.Within one hundred twenty days after completion
of construction of any flood control protective works which changes the rate of
flow during the flood or the configuration of the floodplain upstream or
downstream from or adjacent to the project, the person or agency responsible
for installation of the project shall provide to the governing bodies of all
jurisdictions affected by the project a new delineation of all floodplains
affected by the project.The new delineation shall be done according
to the criteria adopted by the director of water resources.
J.A flood control district or appropriate public
agency which has failed to adopt or enforce floodplain regulations required by
this section shall not be eligible for disaster relief identified by section 35192,
subsection D, paragraphs 3 and 5.The director of water resources
shall advise the director of the division of emergency management within the
department of emergency and military affairs of such failure to comply.
K.A district and its agents may have reasonable
access as provided by written authorization issued pursuant to section 483613
or if no authorization has been issued during business hours or in the case of
an emergency, at any time, to enter and inspect any development on real
property that is located in a floodplain in order to determine whether an owner
is in violation of this chapter. This subsection does not authorize the
inspection of any records or files on a site or the interior of any
building.A district shall attempt to provide written notice to the
owner at least fortyeight hours in advance that the real property is to
be inspected and that the owner or the owner's agent may accompany the district
inspector on the inspection.A district inspector shall comply with
any safety requirements that may be applicable to a particular site. The
district shall prepare a report of any inspections made pursuant to this
subsection. The report shall be made available in the records of the district
and a copy sent to the owner within thirty days after the inspection.
L.The floodplain regulations adopted by a district
pursuant to this chapter are intended to carry out the requirements of the
national flood insurance program and any term not otherwise defined in this
chapter shall have the meaning set forth in 44 Code of Federal Regulations
parts 59 through 78, as effective on January 1, 2005. END_STATUTE

