







REFERENCE TITLE: telecommunications utilities;
  relocation; reimbursement








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2486









Introduced by
Representative
  Olson





AN ACT

Amending title 9,
chapter 4, article 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 9461.17;
relating to municipal planning.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 9, chapter 4, article 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 9-461.17, to read:
START_STATUTE9-461.17.Telecommunications utility relocation; cost reimbursement;
liability; definitions
A.To
the fullest extent allowed by law, if any construction project in any
municipality that is undertaken individually or jointly by an intergovernmental
contract and that is funded in whole or in part by voterapproved bond
proceeds requires that a telecommunications utility adjust or otherwise
relocate the telecommunications utility's facilities, the municipality shall
reimburse the telecommunications utility, or cause the telecommunications
utility to be reimbursed, for the telecommunications utility's relocation
costs.
B.If the telecommunications
utility has existing land rights, the municipality shall provide at the
municipality's expense the telecommunications utility with equal land rights in
the new location of the relocated facilities.If the
telecommunications utility's existing facilities are located in the rightofway
under a permit, the municipality shall provide at the municipality's expense
the telecommunications utility with rights in the new location of the relocated
facilities equivalent to the telecommunications utility's existing rights under
the permit.
C.A
telecommunications utility shall submit a verified itemized claim to the
municipality for reimbursement of relocation costs within one hundred eighty
days after each calendar quarter in which a telecommunications utility incurs
relocation costs.
D.The
municipality shall:
1.Review
each verified itemized claim submitted pursuant to subsection c of this
section.The review may include an audit conducted pursuant to
standard industry accounting principles.
2.Reimburse
the telecommunications utility for the relocation costs within ninety days
after receipt of the verified itemized claim.
3.Reimburse
verified itemized claims from all affected telecommunications utilities in the
order of receipt.
E.The reimbursement
limitation for paid claims of relocation costs for telecommunications utility
facilities for which there are no existing land rights is not more than two
percent of the total project monies.The total project monies is the
total dollar amount of all voterapproved bond proceeds that fund a
construction project from time to time.
F.The total
amount of reimbursement paid for claims of relocation costs of all
telecommunications utility facilities for which there are no existing land
rights may not exceed the reimbursement limitation.
G.If a
verified itemized claim causes the total amount of all claims for
telecommunications utility relocation costs to exceed the reimbursement
limitation, that claim shall be reduced so that the total amount of reimbursement
paid for all claims for which there are no existing land rights equals the
reimbursement limitation.
H.If the
dollar amount of the reimbursement limitation increases as a result of an
increase in total project funds after the previous reimbursement limitation is
exhausted, within thirty days after the reimbursement limitation is increased
the municipality shall resume processing previously submitted and new verified
itemized claims under this section.
I.The
reimbursement limitation does not apply to any claims for reimbursement of
relocation costs for telecommunications utility facilities with existing land
rights or any amounts paid by the municipality to provide equivalent land or
permit rights. These claims and amounts are excluded from the reimbursement
limitation.
J.This
section does not:
1.Apply to
a construction project funded in whole or in part with voterapproved
bond proceeds if approval of the bonds was referred to the voters, or the
initiative petition for the bonds was applied for, before January 1, 2017.
2.Prohibit
a municipality from complying with other applicable law, or with an agreement,
that requires the municipality to reimburse a telecommunications utility for
more relocation costs than this section provides.
K.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Intergovernmental
contract" means the joint exercise of powers authorized by title 11,
chapter 7, article 3.
2."Municipality"
includes a charter city.
3."Relocation
costs" means all costs of relocating a telecommunications utility's
facilities that the telecommunications utility incurs as a direct result of the
construction and operation of a construction project. Relocation costs do not
include profit but may include a reasonable allocation of general overhead expenses.
4."Telecommunications
utility" means any public service corporation, licensed cable system
operator, telephone line or telegraph line corporation, agricultural
improvement district or other person engaged in the transmission, sale or
delivery of telecommunications, telephone, cable television, internet or
telegraph service directly to the public or to other users as to be effectively
available directly to the public. END_STATUTE

