







REFERENCE TITLE: ABOR; terms







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2479









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

amending section
151621, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the arizona board of
regents.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1621.Members; appointment; terms; oath; immunity
A.The Arizona board of regents consists of ten
appointive members, including two student members, and the governor and the
superintendent of public instruction as ex officio members.
B.Appointive members, except the student members,
shall be appointed by the governor pursuant to section 38211.The
term of each appointive member, except the student members, is eight four
years, to begin and end on the third Monday in January.
C.The governor shall appoint two student members to
serve staggered terms.Each year the governor shall designate on a
rotation basis a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of
regents to submit a list of nominees for the position of student member.The
associated students' organization of the designated university, by majority
vote of its governing body, shall select three nominees for student
member.The governor shall consider the three nominees when making
the appointment of the student member but may appoint any qualified
student.Before adjournment of the regular session of the
legislature, the governor shall submit to the senate for consent of the senate
the name of the nominee for student member whose term is to begin on July 1. A
student nominated for a full term may not serve until confirmed by the senate.
A student member must be a person who is legally domiciled in this state and
attends a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents on
a fulltime basis. In the first year of the term, the student member may exercise all rights
and privileges of a board member, except the right to vote. In the second year
of the term, the student
member may exercise all rights and privileges of a board member, including the
right to vote. The term of each student member is two years, beginning on July
1. The governor may remove the student members for cause. A student member
who graduates with no more than seven months remaining in the second year of a
term may serve the remainder of the term. A vacancy in the office of student
member shall be filled as follows:
1.If a vacancy occurs during the first year of a
student member's term, the office shall be filled for the unexpired term. A
student member nominated by the governor to fill a vacancy pursuant to this
paragraph may serve the balance of the term without being confirmed by the
senate.
2.If a vacancy occurs during the second year of a
student member's term, the remaining student member shall assume all rights and
privileges of a board member, including the right to vote. A new student
member shall be nominated to a two year
two-year term to begin on
July 1 as provided in this subsection.
D.On expiration of the term in January 2008 of two
members of the Arizona board of regents, the governor shall appoint two members
who reside in a county with a population of less than eight hundred thousand
persons pursuant to section 38-211. One member shall be selected from Apache,
Coconino, Gila, Mohave, Navajo or Yavapai county and one member shall be
selected from Cochise, Graham, Greenlee, La Paz, Pinal, Santa Cruz or Yuma
county. Notwithstanding subsection B of
this section, the initial term of one of the members appointed pursuant to this
subsection shall be four years to begin and end on the third Monday in
January. Thereafter, the governor shall appoint each member pursuant to this
subsection for terms beginning on the third Monday of January of the year of
the expiration of the term and ending on the third Monday of January eight
years thereafter. This subsection does not preclude the
governor from appointing more than two members who reside in a county with a
population of less than eight hundred thousand persons at one time to the
Arizona board of regents. The governor shall make subsequent appointments to
replace the terms of members pursuant to this subsection in the same manner.
E.Each appointive member of the board shall take
the oath of office before entering upon the duties of the member's office.
F.Members of the board are immune from personal
liability with respect to all acts done and actions taken in good faith within
the scope of their authority during duly constituted regular and special
meetings with approval of a majority of the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Terms of current board members
Notwithstanding section 151621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, a person who is serving as a member of the
Arizona board of regents on the effective date of this act may continue to
serve until expiration of the person's normal term of office.

