







REFERENCE TITLE: wildfire suppression; joint study
  committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2455









Introduced by
Representatives
  Otondo, Barton, Benally, Fann, Gabaldn, Senator Pancrazi: Representatives
  Clark, Cobb, Fernandez, Mitchell, Shope, Senators Bradley, McGuire





AN ACT

Establishing the
joint wildfire suppression study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Joint wildfire suppression study committee; membership;
duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The joint wildfire
suppression study committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the
house of representatives, one of whom is appointed by the speaker of the house
of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the minority leader of the
house of representatives.
2.Two members of the
senate, one of whom is appointed by the president of the senate and one of whom
is appointed by the minority leader of the senate.
3.The state forester or
the state forester's designee.
4.The state land
commissioner or the state land commissioner's designee.
5.One member who represents northern Arizona university,
who has expertise in forest management best practices and who is appointed by
the president of northern Arizona University.
6.One member who represents an organization whose
membership consists of ranchers and grazers in this state and who is appointed
by the governor.
7.One member who
represents a nonprofit organization that is dedicated to environmental
conservation or public access to outdoor recreation, or both, and who is
appointed by the governor.
8.Two members of the
public who are appointed by the governor, at least one of whom has professional
experience in watershed management in this state.
B.The committee members
shall elect cochairpersons from among its membership.The
cochairpersons may not be members of the same political party.
C.Committee members are
not eligible for compensation, but members appointed by the governor are
eligible for reimbursement of expenses under title 38, chapter 4, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
D.The committee shall:
1.Study the actual and
economic costs of wildfire suppression and catastrophic wildfires on state
lands and private property in this state.
2.Study the costs and
benefits to this state regarding planning for wildfire prevention and forest
management.
3.Research potential economic
development, including the vegetative removal industry, the forest products
industry and the biomass energy production industry, that could accompany
forest management.
4.Submit a report
regarding the committee's activities, findings and recommendations on or before
December 31, 2016 to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker
of the house of representatives and provide a copy of this report to the
secretary of state.
E.This section is
repealed from and after September 30, 2017.

