







REFERENCE TITLE: medical marijuana card; fees;
  prohibition







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2404









Introduced by
Representatives
  Leach, Thorpe: Finchem, Kern, Livingston, Petersen





AN ACT

Amending section
362803, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to medical marijuana.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section 1.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 36-2803, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2803.Rulemaking
A.Not later
than one hundred twenty days after the effective date of this chapter,
The department shall adopt rules:
1.Governing the manner in which the department
shall consider petitions from the public to add debilitating medical conditions
or treatments to the list of debilitating medical conditions set forth in
section 36-2801, paragraph 3, including public notice of, and an opportunity to
comment in a public hearing upon on, petitions.
2.Establishing the form and content of registration
and renewal applications submitted under this chapter.
3.Governing the manner in which it shall consider the department considers applications for and
renewals of registry identification cards. 
4.Governing nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensaries, for the purpose of protecting against diversion and theft without
imposing an undue burden on nonprofit medical marijuana dispensaries or
compromising the confidentiality of cardholders, including:
(a)The manner in which the department shall
consider applications for and renewals of registration certificates.
(b)Minimum oversight requirements for nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensaries.
(c)Minimum recordkeeping requirements for nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensaries.
(d)Minimum security requirements for nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensaries, including requirements for protection of each
registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary location by a fully
operational security alarm system.
(e)Procedures for suspending or revoking the
registration certificate of nonprofit medical marijuana dispensaries that
violate the provisions of
this chapter or the rules adopted pursuant to this section.
5.Establishing application and renewal fees for
registry identification cards and nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
registration certificates, according to the following:
(a)The total amount of all fees shall generate
revenues sufficient to implement and administer this chapter except that fee
revenue may be offset or supplemented by private donations.
(b)Nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
application fees may not exceed $5,000.
(c)Nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary renewal
fees may not exceed $1,000.
(d)The total amount of revenue from nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary application and renewal fees and registry
identification card fees for nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agents
shall be sufficient to implement and administer the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary provisions of this chapter, including the verification system,
except that the fee revenue may be offset or supplemented by private donations.
(e)The department may establish a sliding scale of
patient application and renewal fees based upon on
a qualifying patient's household income.The department may not provide a reduced fee
for a patient application or renewal if the patient participates in the
supplemental nutrition assistance program administered by the United States
department of agriculture, food and nutrition service.
(f)The department may consider private donations
under section 362817 to reduce application and renewal fees.
B.The department is authorized to adopt the rules
set forth in subsection A of this
section and shall adopt those rules pursuant to title 41, chapter
6. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 36-2803, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, is
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
of each house of the legislature.

