







REFERENCE TITLE: state agencies; preapplication
  authorization; limitations







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2487









Introduced by
Representative
  Bowers





AN ACT

amending section 411002,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to administrative procedures.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1002, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1002.Applicability and relation to other law; preapplication
authorization; rejection of application
A.This article and articles 2 through 5 of this
chapter apply to all agencies and all proceedings not expressly exempted.
B.This chapter creates only procedural rights and
imposes only procedural duties.They are in addition to those
created and imposed by other statutes. To the extent that any other statute
would diminish a right created or duty imposed by this chapter, the other
statute is superseded by this chapter, unless the other statute expressly
provides otherwise.
C.An agency may grant procedural rights to persons
in addition to those conferred by this chapter so long as rights conferred on
other persons by any provision of law are not substantially prejudiced.
D.Unless specifically authorized by statute, an
agency shall avoid duplication of other laws that do not enhance regulatory
clarity and shall avoid dual permitting to the extent practicable.
e.Unless
specifically authorized by statute, an agency may not require preapplication
authorization or require preapplication conferences as a requirement to filing
an application that is otherwise allowed by statute.If preapplication
PROCEDUREs are authorized by statute, an agency shall consider the
preapplication AUTHORIZATION requirements or procedures as the beginning of the
licensing time frame for the purposes of article 7.1 of this chapter. If
preapplication procedures are authorized by statute, an agency shall consider
the costs and delays that may be imposed on an applicant and shall seek to
minimize those impacts.
F.An agency
may not REJECT an application that would otherwise be denied or APPROVED under
normal processing to avoid the procedural rights and duties conferred by this
chapter. An agency may reject an application only for clerical or
insubstantial errors or omissions of information supplied by the applicant. If
an APPLICATION fee was paid, an agency shall provide the applicant an
opportunity to correct errors and omissions instead of rejecting the
application. END_STATUTE

