







REFERENCE TITLE: sex education curricula; requirements







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2410









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Alston, Bolding, Cardenas, Larkin, Mach, Rios, Saldate, Plumlee:
  Andrade, Clark, Espinoza, Fernandez, Friese, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Hale, McCune
  Davis, Otondo, Velasquez, Wheeler





AN ACT

amending sections
15102 and 15711, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school
curricula.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
15-102, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-102.Parental involvement in the school; definition
A.The governing board,
in consultation with parents, teachers and administrators, shall develop and
adopt a policy to promote the involvement of parents and guardians of children
enrolled in the schools within the school district, including:
1.A plan for parent
participation in the schools which that is designed to improve
parent and teacher cooperation in such areas as homework, attendance and
discipline.
2.Procedures by which
parents may learn about the course of study for their children and review
learning materials, including the source of any supplemental educational
materials.
3.Procedures by which
parents who object to any learning material or activity on the basis that it is
harmful may withdraw their children from the activity or from the class or
program in which the material is used. Objection to a learning material or
activity on the basis that it is harmful includes objection to a material or
activity because it questions beliefs or practices in sex, morality or
religion.
4.If a school district offers any sex education curricula
pursuant to section 15711 or 15716 or pursuant to any rules
adopted by the state board of education, Procedures to prohibit allow a school district from
providing to
provide sex education instruction to a pupil unless the pupil's parent
provides written permission for the child to not participate in the sex education
curricula.
5.Procedures by which
parents will be notified in advance of and given the opportunity to withdraw
their children from any instruction or presentations regarding sexuality in
courses other than formal sex education curricula.
6.Procedures by which
parents may learn about the nature and purpose of clubs and activities that are
part of the school curriculum, extracurricular clubs and activities that have
been approved by the school.
7.Procedures by which
parents may learn about parental rights and responsibilities under the laws of
this state, including the following:
(a)The right to opt in to out
of a sex education curriculum if one is
provided by the school district as provided in section 15711.
(b)Open enrollment
rights pursuant to section 15816.01.
(c)The right to opt out
of assignments pursuant to this section.
(d)The right to opt out
of immunizations pursuant to section 15873.
(e)The promotion
requirements prescribed in section 15701.
(f)The minimum course
of study and competency requirements for graduation from high school prescribed
in section 15701.01.
(g)The right to opt out
of instruction on the acquired immune deficiency syndrome pursuant to section
15716.
(h)The right to review
test results pursuant to section 15743.
(i)The right to
participate in gifted programs pursuant to section 15779.01.
(j)The right to access
instructional materials pursuant to section 15730.
(k)The right to receive
a school report card pursuant to section 15746.
(l)The attendance
requirements prescribed in sections 15802, 15803 and 15821.
(m)The right to public
review of courses of study and textbooks pursuant to section 15721.
(n)The right to be
excused from school attendance for religious purposes pursuant to section 15806.
(o)Policies related to
parental involvement pursuant to this section.
(p)The right to seek
membership on school councils pursuant to section 15351.
(q)The right to
participate in a parental satisfaction survey pursuant to section 15353.
(r)Information about
the student accountability information system as prescribed in section 151042 151041.
(s)The right to access
the failing schools tutoring fund pursuant to section 15-241.
B.The policy adopted by
the governing board pursuant to this section may also include the following
components:
1.A plan by which
parents will be made aware of the district's parental involvement policy and
this section, including:
(a)Rights under the
family educational rights and privacy act of 1974 (20 United States Code
section 1232g) relating to access to children's official records.
(b)The parent's right
to inspect the school district policies and curriculum.
2.Efforts to encourage
the development of parenting skills.
3.The communication to
parents of techniques designed to assist the child's learning experience in the
home.
4.Efforts to encourage
access to community and support services for children and families.
5.The promotion of
communication between the school and parents concerning school programs and the
academic progress of the parents' children.
6.Identifying
opportunities for parents to participate in and support classroom instruction
at the school.
7.Efforts to support,
with appropriate training, parents as shared decision makers decision-makers and to encourage membership on
school councils.
8.The recognition of
the diversity of parents and the development of guidelines that promote
widespread parental participation and involvement in the school at various
levels.
9.The development of
preparation programs and specialized courses for certificated employees and
administrators that promote parental involvement.
10.The development
of strategies and programmatic structures at schools to encourage and enable
parents to participate actively in their children's education.
C.The governing board
may adopt a policy to provide to parents the information required by this
section in an electronic form.
D.A parent shall submit
a written request for information pursuant to this section during regular
business hours to either the school principal at the school site or the
superintendent of the school district at the office of the school
district.Within ten days of receiving the request for information,
the school principal or the superintendent of the school district shall either
deliver the requested information to the parent or submit to the parent a
written explanation of the reasons for the denial of the requested
information. If the request for information is denied or the parent does not
receive the requested information within fifteen days after submitting the
request for information, the parent may submit a written request for the
information to the school district governing board, which shall formally
consider the request at the next scheduled public meeting of the governing
board if the request can be properly noticed on the agenda. If the request
cannot be properly noticed on the agenda, the governing board shall formally
consider the request at the next subsequent public meeting of the governing
board.
E.For the purposes of
this section, "parent" means the natural or adoptive parent or legal
guardian of a minor child. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
15-711, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-711.Sex education curricula; sexual conduct with a minor;
definitions
A.All school districts with existing sex education curricula shall:
1.Provide sex education in kindergarten programs and
grades one through twelve that is medically accurate, developmentally accurate
and ageappropriate.
2.Include instruction on the laws relating to
sexual conduct with a minor for pupils in grades seven, eight, nine, ten,
eleven and twelve. Each school district may develop its own course of study to
meet the requirements of this section paragraph.
B.Sex education instruction shall:
1.Provide age-appropriate and medically accurate
information about human sexuality as a normal and healthy aspect of human
development.
2.Teach the benefits of delaying sexual activity and
stress the importance of effectively using contraceptives and barrier methods
to prevent unintended pregnancy and to protect against sexually transmitted
infections, including the human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome.
3.Help students develop the relationship and communication
skills to form healthy relationships throughout their lives that are based on
mutual respect and affection and free from violence, coercion and intimidation.
4.Help young people gain knowledge about the physical,
social and emotional changes of adolescence and subsequent stages of human
maturation, including how pregnancy occurs.
5.Help students develop skills in critical thinking,
problem solving, decision making and stress management in order to make healthy
decisions about sexuality and relationships.
6.Encourage youth to communicate with their parents and
guardians, health care and social service professionals and other trusted
adults about sexuality and intimate relations.
C.A teacher who provides sex education instruction, at
the teacher's discretion, may answer in good faith any question initiated by a
student or students that is reasonably related to and consistent with the
material of the course.
D.The Department of education may eliminate or modify
components of sex education in elementary school for reasons of
age-appropriateness.
E.Sex education instruction may not discriminate on the
basis of sex, race, ethnicity, national origin, disability, religion, sexual
orientation or gender identity.
F.School districts shall make sex education curricula
available for viewing as provided in section 15102.
G.A student may be excused from any part of the
instruction provided in accordance with this section only at the written
request of the student's parent or guardian.
H.A student may not be subject to disciplinary action,
an academic penalty or another sanction if the student's parent or guardian
requests that the student not receive the instruction provided under this
section.
I.The department of education shall do all of the following:
1.Adopt rules to implement, administer and ensure
compliance with this section.
2.Develop and maintain a current list of sexual health
education curricula that are consistent with this section and make this list
available to the public.
3.Designate minimum education and training
qualifications for sex education instructors.
4.Direct each school district to identify any curricula
used to provide sex education and report this information every two years to
the president of the senate, the minority leader of the senate, the speaker of
the house of representatives and the minority leader of the house of
representatives.
J.The department of education may adopt rules pursuant
to title 41, chapter 6 that prescribe procedures to enforce this section,
including procedures to initiate a complaint for a violation of this section
and to appeal a final determination by the department of education.
K.Notwithstanding subsection J of this section, any
parent or guardian with a child enrolled in a school district, or any student
having legal capacity enrolled in a school district, who believes that the
school district is not complying with the requirements of this section may file
an action in superior court to enforce this section.
L.For the purposes of this section:
1."Age-appropriate" means topics, messages and
teaching methods that are suitable to particular age and developmental levels,
based on the cognitive, emotional, social and experience levels of most
students at that age level.
2."Medically accurate" means information that
is supported by peerreviewed research conducted in compliance with
accepted scientific methods, that is recognized as accurate and objective by
leading medical, psychological, psychiatric and public health organizations and
agencies and, if relevant, that is published in peer-reviewed scientific
journals. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Legislative findings and intent
A.The legislature finds
and declares that:
1.Students in Arizona
often lack the education they need to prevent unintended pregnancy and sexually
transmitted infections.
2.About half of high
school students nationwide have had sexual intercourse.
3.It is estimated that
four out of every ten new human immunodeficiency virus infections occur in a
youth under the age of thirty, imposing a tremendous economic burden.
4.Research shows that
education programs that emphasize the importance of delaying teen sexual
activity and that teach teens proper condom and contraceptive use:
(a)Delay the initiation
of sex.
(b)Reduce the frequency
of sex, the number of partners and the incidence of unprotected sex.
(c)Increase the use of
condoms and contraception.
5.Long-term impacts in
some programs have included rates of sexually transmitted infections or
pregnancy, or both.
6.The most effective
sex education is linked to programs ensuring access to health care in general
and reproductive health services in particular. Recent research attributes
most of the decline in teenage pregnancy rates to increased use of
contraceptives by teens rather than to declines in sexual activity.
7.Parents and leading
health and education organizations support comprehensive sex education. The
American medical association, the American nurses association, the American
academy of pediatrics, the American college of obstetricians and gynecologists,
the American public health association, the institute of medicine, the society
of adolescent medicine, the American federation of teachers, the national
education association and the national school boards association support sex
education that includes information about both delaying sexual activity and
effective contraception use.
8.Sex education
programs that are paired with broader, more comprehensive instruction can help
prepare young people to reach intellectual and emotional maturity. Research
shows that programs that discourage risky sexual behavior, encourage teens to
postpone sexual activity and prepare teens to use contraceptives to prevent
unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections, including the human
immunodeficiency virus, are more successful when they are presented as part of
programs designed to give teens the skills and experiences they need to succeed
in school and lead healthy and fulfilling lives.
9.Sex education
complements and enhances human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome education programs. Research shows that sex
education programs that incorporate information on the prevention of sexually
transmitted diseases and the human immunodeficiency virus can help reduce
sexual risk-taking.
10.Studies show that
discussion between young people and their parents or guardians helps young
people make responsible and healthy life decisions.
B.The legislature
intends that sex education should promote healthy attitudes concerning
adolescent growth and development, body image, gender identity, gender
expression, sexuality, sexual orientation, dating, relationships and family and
should positively affect adolescent behavior. Sex education should provide
teens with the information, skills, and support they need to develop positive
values and make healthy decisions and to respect the important role sexuality
plays throughout a person's life.
Sec.4.Short title
This act may be cited as "The
Healthy Youth Act".

