







REFERENCE TITLE: G&F; in-lieu fee; trust fund 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2465









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee, Pratt: Barton, Bowers, Cobb





AN ACT

Amending title
17, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 17265;
amending section 35142, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
Arizona Game and Fish Commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 17, chapter 2, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 17-265, to read:
START_STATUTE17-265.Game and fish inlieu fee program restoration
endowment trust fund; exemption; definition
A.The game and fish inlieu fee program
restoration endowment trust fund is established to be used to fulfill the
department's obligations as an inlieu fee sponsor pursuant to sections
401 and 404 of the clean water act. The commission shall administer the trust
fund as trustee.
B.The trust fund is a permanent endowment fund
that consists of monies deposited from proceeds received by the department as
an inlieu fee sponsor pursuant to sections 401 and 404 of the clean
water act, and interest and investment income earned on those monies,
including:
1.Compensatory mitigation monies received from
federal inlieu fee permittees through the purchase of inlieu fee
mitigation credits.
2.Monies received from the United States army
corps of engineers for other approved in inlieu fee programs.
3.Monies received from the United States army
corps of engineers as a resolution of unauthorized activities under a completed
federal enforcement action pursuant to sections 401 and 404 of the clean water
act.
C.Monies in the trust fund are continuously
appropriated. Monies in the trust fund do not revert to the state general fund
and are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
D.The state treasurer shall accept, separately
account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state treasury, which
are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35310 and which
may not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury except for
investment purposes. On notice from the commission, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest, as provided by section 35-313, 35-314 or 35-314.03, any
trust fund monies deposited in the state treasury, and monies earned from
interest and investment income shall be credited to the trust fund.
E.The beneficiaries of the trust are the inlieu
fee projects sponsored by the department pursuant to sections 401 and 404 of
the clean water act. Monies in the trust fund shall be spent by the commission
solely for the purposes authorized under any enabling instrument between the
commission, the United States army corps of engineers and the United States
environmental protection agency.
F.For the purposes of this section, "clean
water act" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49201. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 35-142, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-142.Monies kept in funds separate from state general fund;
receipt and withdrawal
A.All monies received for and belonging to the
state shall be deposited in the state treasury and credited to the state
general fund except the following, which shall be placed and retained in
separate funds:
1.The unexpendable principal of monies received
from federal land grants shall be placed in separate funds and the account of
each such separate fund shall bear a title indicating the source and the
institution or purpose to which such fund belongs.
2.The interest, rentals and other expendable money
received as income from federal land grants shall be placed in separate
accounts, each account bearing a title indicating the source and the
institution or purpose to which the fund belongs.Such expendable
monies shall be expended only as authorized, regulated and controlled by the
general appropriation act or other act of the legislature.
3.All private or quasiprivate monies
authorized by law to be paid to or held by the state treasurer shall be placed
in separate accounts, each account bearing a title indicating the source and
purpose of such fund.
4.All monies legally pledged to retirement of
building indebtedness or bonds issued by those institutions authorized to incur
such indebtedness or to issue such bonds shall be placed in separate accounts.
5.Monies of a multicounty water conservation
district authorized by law to be paid to or held by the state treasurer shall
be placed in separate accounts, each account bearing a title indicating the
source and purpose of such fund.
6.All monies collected by the Arizona game and fish
department shall be deposited in a special fund known as the state game and
fish protection fund for the use of the Arizona game and fish commission in
carrying out the provisions of title 17.
7.All federal monies that are received by the
department of economic security for family assistance benefits and medical
eligibility as a result of efficiencies developed by the department of economic
security and that would otherwise revert to the state general fund pursuant to
section 35190 shall be retained for use by the department of economic
security in accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by the federal
funding source in an account or accounts established or authorized by the state
treasurer.
8.Monies designated by law as special state funds
shall not be considered a part of the general fund. Unless otherwise
prescribed by law, the state treasurer shall be the custodian of all such
funds.
9.All monies received and any accounts established
and maintained by the director of the Arizona state retirement system or the
administrator of the public safety personnel retirement system, the corrections
officer retirement plan and the elected officials' retirement plan.
10.Monies received by a state agency or institution
as a gift, devise or donation shall not be considered a part of the state
general fund or transferred to the state general fund unless the gift, devise
or donation specifically authorizes a general state use for the monies. A
state agency or institution that receives a monetary gift, devise or donation
shall account for those monies separately.
11.All
monies received by the ARizona game and fish commission in connection with
clean water act inlieu fee projects shall be deposited in a special
trust fund known as the game and fish inlieu fee program restoration
endowment trust fund for the use of the Arizona game and fish commission for
the purposes authorized under any enabling instrument between the commission,
the United States army corps of engineers and the United States environmental
protection agency.
B.No money shall be received or held by the state
treasurer except as authorized by law, and in every instance the treasurer
shall issue a receipt for money received and shall record the transaction in
the statewide accounting system. No money shall be withdrawn from the treasury
except on the warrant or electronic funds transfer voucher of the department of
administration.
C.Monies received for and belonging to the state
and resulting from compromises or settlements by or against this state,
excluding restitution and reimbursement to state agencies for costs or attorney
fees, shall be credited to the state general fund unless specifically credited
to another fund by law.A fund consisting of monies other than
monies received for restitution, costs or attorney fees shall not be
established on the basis of a court order without prior legislative authorization.
For the purposes of this subsection, "restitution" means monies
intended to compensate a specific, identifiable person, including this state,
for economic loss.
D.All federal monies granted and paid to the state
by the federal government shall be accounted for in the accounts or funds of
the state in the necessary detail to meet federal and state accounting,
budgetary and auditing requirements, and all appropriations for matching such
federal monies shall be transferred from the general fund to such separate
funds as needed, except as otherwise required by the federal government.
E.Nothing in this section requires the
establishment of separate accounts or funds for such federal monies unless
otherwise required by federal or state law. The department of administration
has the authority to use the most efficient system of accounts and records,
consistent with legal requirements and standard and necessary fiscal
safeguards.
F.Nothing in this section precludes the creation by
the department of administration of a clearing account or other acceptable
accounting method to effect prompt payment of claims from an approved budget or
appropriation. The department of administration shall report each account or
fund established or cancelled to the directors of the joint legislative budget
committee and the governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting.
G.Nothing in this section or any other section
precludes the use of monies kept in funds separate from the general fund, the
interest from which accrues to the general fund, for payment of claims against
the general fund, provided sufficient monies remain available for payment of
claims against such funds.
H.The department of administration may issue
warrants for qualified expenditures of federal program monies before they are
deposited in the state treasury.The receipt of federal monies shall
be timed to coincide, as closely as administratively feasible, with the
redemption of warrants by the state treasurer.The department of
administration shall limit expenditures to the amount that has been made
available for the use under the grant award by the federal government. The
state agency initiating the expenditures is responsible for ensuring that
expenditures qualify for coverage under the guidelines of the federal grant
award.
I.The department of administration shall establish
the policies and procedures for all state agencies for drawing federal monies.
When the established method results in federal monies being held by this state,
the department of administration may use the interest earned on the monies to
pay the federal government for any related interest liability. If an interest
liability is incurred due to a state agency varying from the established
policies and procedures, the department of administration shall charge the
appropriate agency account or fund. Any federal interest liability owed to
this state as a result of the delayed federal disbursements shall be used to
offset this state's interest liability to the federal government.Any
remaining interest earnings shall be deposited in the state general fund.
J.Any state agency or authorized agent of a state
agency may accept credit cards pursuant to an agreement entered into by the
state treasurer pursuant to section 35315 for the payment of any amount
due to that agency or agent or this state.
K.Except for the department of revenue, agencies or
authorized agents on behalf of state agencies that accept credit cards shall
deduct any applicable discount fee and processing fee associated with the
transaction amount before depositing the net amount in the appropriate state
fund. No other reduction is permitted against the transaction amount. The net
amount deposited in the appropriate state fund shall be considered as the full
deposit required by law of monies received by the agency or the authorized
agent. Payment of any applicable discount fee and processing fee shall be
accounted for in the annual report submitted to the governor's office of
strategic planning and budgeting in accordance with section 411273.The
transaction amount of any credit card transaction shall not be reduced by any
discount fee or processing fee in an amount in excess of the merchant card
settlement fees reflected in the state banking contract with the state treasurer's
office.
L.Any state agency that contracts with an
authorized agent for the electronic processing of transactions pursuant to
title 41, chapter 23 may include a provision in the contract to allow the
authorized agent to impose a convenience fee. If allowed, the convenience fee
shall be charged to the cardholder in addition to the transaction amount,
except for the following:
1.Except as provided in subsection R of this
section, any permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to pursue a trade
or occupation in this state.
2.Except as provided in subsection R of this
section, any permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to establish,
expand or operate a business in this state.
3.Except as provided in subsection R of this
section, any permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to register a
vehicle or license a driver in this state.
M.Each state agency or its authorized agent shall:
1.Deduct the amount of the convenience fee before
depositing the transaction amount or the transaction amount reduced by the
discount fee or the processing fee, or both, into the appropriate state fund.
2.Not deduct any part of the convenience fee from
the transaction amount before depositing the net amount into the appropriate
state fund.
3.Deduct the amount of the discount fee or the
processing fee, or both, from the transaction amount before depositing the net
amount into the appropriate state fund.
N.The net amount deposited in the appropriate state
fund pursuant to subsection L or M of this section shall be considered as the
full deposit of monies that is required by law and that is received by the
agency.
O.Notwithstanding section 35142.01,
convenience fees received by a state agency or its authorized agent are limited
to, and may be used to offset, the costs imposed by the authorized agent in
processing the transactions.
P.When the percentage of electronic transactions
first exceeds at least thirty percent of a state agency's total transactions,
the state agency shall perform a cost benefit report, including costs of
convenience fees, the amount of revenue generated and any realized cost
savings.
Q.Nothing in this section or any other provision of
law authorizes any state agency, authorized agent of any state agency or budget
unit to establish a bank account for any government monies.All
monies received by or on behalf of this state shall be deposited with and in
the custody of the state treasurer or in an account that is authorized by the
state treasurer pursuant to this section. This subsection does not apply to
monies received and any accounts established and maintained by the director of
the Arizona state retirement system or the administrator of the public safety
personnel retirement system, the corrections officer retirement plan and the
elected officials' retirement plan.
R.If a state agency provides an alternative method
of payment, the convenience fee may be charged to the cardholder in addition to
the transaction amount. END_STATUTE

