







REFERENCE TITLE: motor vehicle franchises; motorcycle
  dealers







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2441









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen: Farnsworth E, Senator Begay





AN ACT

amending section
28-4453, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to motor vehicle franchises.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-4453, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4453.Franchise; notice of intention
A.If a franchisor seeks to enter into a franchise
establishing an additional new motor vehicle dealership of the same linemake,
the franchisor shall, and the franchisee may at any time, file with the
director a notice of intention to enter into a franchise for additional
representation of the same linemake.
B.If the franchisor intends to establish an
additional new motor vehicle dealership, the director shall send notice within
five days of after receipt to all
franchisees of the same linemake in the community and to all other
franchises located within ten miles of the proposed dealership by the shortest
street route, if located outside the community, who are then engaged in the
business of offering to sell or selling the same linemake. In counties
with a population of less than two hundred thousand persons, the notice
additionally shall be sent to all dealers located within twenty miles of the
proposed new franchise as determined by the shortest street route. The
director shall address copies of notices to the principal place of business of
the franchisees.The notice
requirement prescribed by this subsection does not apply if the proposed new
motor vehicle dealership is a motorcycle dealer.
C.The relocation or the reopening of a dealership
within two years of after the closing within the
area of responsibility assigned in the franchise is not considered an
additional dealership for purposes of this chapter, provided that the location
of the replacement dealership is within one mile of the previous location.
D.If a franchisor seeks to terminate, cancel or not
renew a franchise, the franchisor shall notify the franchisee and the director
in writing by certified mail or personal delivery.The notice shall
contain all of the following:
1.A statement of the franchisor's intention to
terminate, cancel or not renew the franchise.
2.A statement of the reasons for the termination,
cancellation or nonrenewal.
3.The date on which the termination, cancellation
or nonrenewal is effective.
E.This section does not apply to an intended
termination, cancellation or nonrenewal of a franchise that the franchisee
elects voluntarily, pursuant to a plan established by the franchisor, to submit
to binding arbitration. END_STATUTE

