







REFERENCE TITLE: telecommunications fund; report; website







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2433









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending section
41713, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to automation and
telecommunications functions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-713, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-713.Telecommunications fund; report
A.A telecommunications fund is established for
paying costs incurred in operating the telecommunications program office
established pursuant to section 41712.
B.The fund consists of:
1.Legislative appropriations.
2.Grants, except for otherwise specifically
dedicated grants, received for telecommunication operations, consolidation and
cost reduction or cost avoidance functions.
3.Monies derived from administering the
telecommunications program office.
4.Monies derived from the sale or exchange of
telecommunications assets or any assets that may be used to provide
telecommunication access.
5.Monies derived from agencies and political
subdivisions and other states or their agencies in payment for services
provided by the telecommunications program office established pursuant to
section 41712.
C.The department of administration shall administer
the fund. All monies in the fund, including subaccounts and private accounts
such as the infrastructure investment account, are subject to annual
legislative appropriation to the department.
D.In connection with its annual budget request to
the legislature, the department shall prepare a report that accounts for all
monies deposited in the fund, the sources of the monies received for deposit,
the purposes for which the fund monies were used during the preceding fiscal
year and the plans for using fund monies during the next fiscal year. The director shall post this report on the
department's website. 
E.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE

