







REFERENCE TITLE: DOR; costs; penalties; recovery 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2492









Introduced by
Representative
  Bowers





AN ACT

amending section
411092.12, Arizona Revised Statutes; providing for transferring and
renumbering; amending section 411384, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
transferred and renumbered; amending sections 421004, 421251, 422059
and 422062, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the department of revenue.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1092.12, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.12.Private right of action; recovery of costs and fees;
definitions
A.If an agency takes an action against a party that
is arbitrary, capricious or not in accordance with law or fails to provide public or private records requested by
the party that illustrates an improper agency action, the action
is an appealable agency action if all of the following apply: 
1.Within ten
sixty days after the
action that is arbitrary, capricious or not in accordance with law or the failure to provide public or private records
requested by the party that illustrates an improper agency action,
the party notifies the director of the agency in writing of the party's intent
to file a claim pursuant to this section.This notice shall include
a description of the action the party claims to be arbitrary, capricious or not
in accordance with law or the public or
private records withheld and reasons why the action is arbitrary,
capricious or not in accordance with law
or is a failure to provide public or private records requested by the party
that illustrates an improper agency action.
2.The agency continues the action that is
arbitrary, capricious or not in accordance with law or fails to provide public or private records requested by
the party that illustrates an improper agency action more than ten sixty days after the agency receives the
notice.
3.The action is not excluded from the definition of
appealable agency action as defined in section 411092.
B.This section only applies if an administrative
remedy or an administrative or a judicial appeal of final agency action is not
otherwise provided by law, except that
this section applies in any instance to the failure to provide public or
private records requested by the party that illustrates an improper agency
action.
C.If the party prevails, the agency shall pay from the state general fund three times the
estimate of the personal or professional time and effort that are spent by the
party and reasonable costs and fees to the party from any monies
appropriated to the agency and available for that purpose or from other current operating monies of the
agency.If the agency fails or refuses to pay the award costs
and fees within fifteen days after the demand, and if no further
review or appeal of the award is pending, the prevailing party may file a claim
with the department of administration.The department of
administration shall pay the costs and
fees claim within thirty days in the same manner as an uninsured
property loss under title 41,
chapter 3.1, article 1 of this title,
except that the agency is responsible for the total amount of costs and fees and three times the personal or
professional time and effort that are spent by the party awarded
and shall pay it from its operating monies.If the agency had
appropriated monies available for paying the award at the time it failed or
refused to pay, the legislature shall reduce the agency's operating
appropriation for the following fiscal year by the amount of the award and
shall appropriate that the amount of costs and fees to the department of
administration as reimbursement for the loss.
D.If the administrative law judge determines that
the appealable agency action is frivolous, the administrative law judge may
require the party to pay reasonable costs and fees to the agency in responding
to the appeal filed before the office of administrative hearings.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Action against the party" means any of
the following that results in the expenditure of costs and fees:
(a)A decision.
(b)An inspection.
(c)An investigation.
(d)The entry of private property.
(e)The assessment of taxes or
penalties and interest. 
2."Agency" means the department of
environmental quality established pursuant to title 49, chapter 1, article 1 or the department of revenue.
3."Costs and fees" means reasonable
attorney and professional fees incurred
by the party as a result of the agency action against the party.
4."Party" means an individual,
partnership, corporation, association and public or private organization at
whom the action was directed and who has expended
spent costs and fees and personal or professional time and effort as
a result of the action against the party.
5."Personal
or professional time and effort" means an estimate of salary or hourly
wages that are spent to address the action against the party. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-2051, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 41, chapter 8,
article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 411384 and, as so
renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE411384.Arizona taxpayer assistance office;
taxpayer problem resolution officer; duties
A.The Arizona taxpayer assistance office is
established as an office in the department
office of ombudsmancitizens aide.The
employees of the ARizona taxpayer
assistance office shall be selected by the director OMBUDSMANCITIZENS AIDE.The manager of
the Arizona taxpayer
assistance office is the taxpayer problem resolution officer.The ARizona taxpayer assistance office
reports directly to the director's office
OMBUDSMANCITIZENS AIDE.The
employees of the ARizona taxpayer
assistance office may include employees of the department office of ombudsmancitizens aide and
may also include residents of this state with knowledge of taxation.
B.The ARizona
taxpayer assistance office shall assist taxpayers in:
1.Obtaining easily understandable tax information
and information on audits, corrections and appeals procedures of the department of revenue.
2.Answering questions regarding preparing and
filing returns with the department of
revenue.
3.Locating documents or payments filed with or
submitted to the department of revenue by
taxpayers.
C.The ARizona
taxpayer assistance office shall also:
1.Receive and evaluate complaints of improper,
abusive or inefficient service by employees of the department of revenue and recommend to the director of the department of revenue appropriate
action to correct such service.
2.Identify policies and practices of the department
of revenue that might be
barriers to the equitable treatment of taxpayers and recommend alternatives to
the director of the department of
revenue.
3.Provide expeditious service to taxpayers whose
problems are not resolved through normal channels.
4.Negotiate with department of revenue personnel to resolve the most
complex and sensitive taxpayer problems.
5.Take action to stop or prohibit the department OF REVENUE from taking an
action against a taxpayer.
6.Participate and represent taxpayers' interests
and concerns in planning meetings, reviewing instructions and formulating
department OF REVENUE policies
and procedures.
7.Compile data each year on the number and type of
taxpayer complaints and evaluate the actions taken to resolve complaints.
8.Survey taxpayers each year to obtain their
evaluation of the quality of service provided by the department OF REVENUE.
9.Monitor the number and type of seizures of
property under TITLE 42, chapter
1, article 5 of this title.
10.Notify and recommend appropriate action to the
director OF THE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE if
the ARizona taxpayer assistance office
determines that a seizure has occurred or will occur which has subjected or
will subject the taxpayer to a seizure of property without affording a
reasonable opportunity for discussion of alternative methods of payment of the
obligation.
11.Perform other functions which that
relate to taxpayer assistance as prescribed by the director OF THE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
D.Actions taken by the ARizona taxpayer assistance office may be
reviewed only by the director upon
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE ON request
of the department OF REVENUE or
a taxpayer.The director OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE may modify action taken by the ARizona taxpayer assistance office.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-1004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1004.General powers and duties of the department; res judicata;
remedies; enforcement; special collections account
A.The department shall administer and enforce this
title, title 43 and other laws assigned to it and has all the powers and duties
prescribed by law for such purposes.In all proceedings prescribed
by law the department may act on behalf of this state.In addition,
the department shall:
1.Formulate policies, plans and programs to
effectuate the missions and purposes of the department.
2.Employ and remove personnel subject to title 41,
chapter 4, article 4 and, as applicable, articles 5 and 6, determine the
conditions of employment and prescribe the duties and powers of administrative,
professional, technical, secretarial, clerical and other personnel as may be
necessary in the performance of its duties, and contract for the services of
outside advisors, consultants and aides as may be reasonably necessary.
3.Make contracts and incur obligations within the
general scope of its activities and operations subject to the availability of
its funds.
4.Contract with or assist other departments,
agencies or institutions of the state, local, Indian tribal and federal
governments in the furtherance of its purposes, objectives and programs.
5.Accept grants, matching funds and direct payments
from public or private agencies for the conduct of programs which that
are consistent with the overall purposes and objectives of the
department.
6.Provide information and advice within the scope
of its duties subject to the laws on confidentiality of information and
departmental rules adopted pursuant to such laws.
7.Advise with and make recommendations to the
governor and the legislature on all matters concerning its objectives.
8.Have an official seal which that
shall be judicially noticed.
9.Provide an integrated, coordinated and uniform
system of tax administration and revenue collection for the state, including a
coordinated electronic method of collecting state and municipal transaction
privilege and affiliated excise taxes.
B.The department may:
1.With the approval of the attorney general:
(a)Abate any balance owed by a taxpayer if the
balance is uncollectible. Related liens, if any, are extinguished on abatement.
(b)Abate all or part of the unpaid portion of any
tax if the director determines that the administration and collection costs
involved would exceed the amount of the tax.
2.Offer publications relating to the administration
of state taxes for sale at a price equal to the pro rata cost of publication
and distribution. Monies received from the sale of publications shall be
placed in a revenue publications revolving fund.Monies in the fund:
(a)Shall be used to meet publication and
distribution expenses.
(b)Are exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing of appropriations.
3.Enter into contingent fee contracts to collect
delinquent state taxes, penalties, interest and other amounts owed to the
department under title 43 and chapter 5, article 1 of this title, consistent
with the requirements of chapter 2, article 1 of this title.No
contract may be entered into for the hiring of auditors on a contingent fee
basis except auditors that are hired to enforce title 44, chapter 3.
C.In the determination of any issue of law or fact
under this title or title 43, neither the department, nor any officer or agency
having any administrative duties under this title or title 43, nor any court is
bound by the determination of any other executive officer or administrative
agency of this state. In the determination of any case arising under this
title or title 43, the rule of res judicata is applicable only if the liability
involved is for the same year or period as was involved in another case
previously determined under this title or title 43.
D.The remedies of this state provided for in this
title and title 43 are cumulative, and no action taken by the department
constitutes an election by this state to pursue any remedy to the exclusion of
any other remedy provided by law.
E.The attorney general shall prosecute in the name
of this state all actions necessary to enforce this title and title
43.The attorney general may defend all actions brought against this
state or an officer or agency of this state arising under this title and title
43.The attorney general may delegate the prosecuting authority to
any county attorney for prosecution in that county.
F.A special collections account is established in
the state general fund. All monies collected pursuant to contracts authorized
by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section shall be deposited in the special
collections account. The department shall pay from the account all fees and
court costs provided for in the contracts authorized under subsection B,
paragraph 3 of this section.The department shall allocate the
remainder of the amounts collected under subsection B, paragraph 3 of this
section to the state or the political subdivision in the proportion that the
monies would have been distributed pursuant to chapter 5 of this title or
section 43206, respectively. Monies
in the fund may not be used to pay costs and fees or the estimated cost of
personal or professional time and effort pursuant to section 411092.12.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-1251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1251.Appeal to the department; hearing
A.Except in the case of individual income taxes, a
person from whom an amount is determined to be due under article 3 of this
chapter may apply to the department by a petition in writing within fortyfive
days after the notice of a proposed assessment made pursuant to section 421109,
subsection B or the notice required by section 421108, subsection B is
received, or within such additional time as the department may allow, for a
hearing, correction or redetermination of the action taken by the
department.In the case of individual income taxes the period is
ninety days from the date the notice is mailed.The petition shall
set forth the reasons why the hearing, correction or redetermination should be
granted and the amount in which any tax, interest and penalties should be reduced.If
only a portion of the deficiency assessment is protested, all unprotested
amounts of tax, interest and penalties must be paid at the time the protest is
filed. The department shall consider the petition and grant a hearing, if
requested. To represent the taxpayer at the hearing or to appear on the
taxpayer's behalf is deemed not to be the practice of law.
B.Notwithstanding
the deadlines prescribed in subsection A of this section, if a person has
requested that the department produce documents or records related to an amount
determined to be due under article 3 of this chapter, the petition for a
hearing, correction or redetermination of the action must be filed within fortyfive
days after the date that the documents or records have been provided to the
person. The department shall abate any interest and penalties until the
documents or records are produced.
B.C.If the taxpayer
does not file a petition for hearing, correction or redetermination within the
period provided by this section, the amount determined to be due becomes final
at the expiration of the period.The taxpayer is deemed to have
waived and abandoned the right to question the amount determined to be due,
unless the taxpayer pays the total deficiency assessment, including interest
and penalties.The taxpayer may then file a claim for refund
pursuant to section 421118 within six months of payment of the
deficiency assessment or within the time limits prescribed by section 421106,
whichever period expires later.
C.D.All orders or
decisions made on the filing of a petition for a hearing, correction or
redetermination become final thirty days after notice has been received by the
petitioner, unless the petitioner appeals the order or decision to the state
board of tax appeals. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-2059, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2059.No additional audits or proposed assessments; exceptions
A.When the department completes an audit or the
findings of a managed audit are accepted by the director or approved on appeal
and a deficiency has been completely determined under section 421108 or
chapter 1, article 6 of this title, the taxpayer's liability for the particular
tax for the period subjected to the audit is fixed and determined, and no
additional audit may be conducted except under the following circumstances:
1.If a taxpayer files a claim for refund under
section 421251, subsection B
C or any other provision
authorizing a claim for refund.Any departmental audit of the claim
is limited to the issues presented on the claim for refund.
2.Changes or corrections required to be reported to
the department by section 43327.The department may audit any
such reports or any periods for which a report was required notwithstanding
this section and may determine a tax deficiency or a refund.
3.If the taxpayer failed to disclose material
information during the audit, or has falsified books or records or otherwise
engaged in an action that prevented the department from conducting an accurate
audit, the applicability of this subsection may be part of a subsequent protest
and may be contested by the taxpayer pursuant to chapter 1, article 6 of this
title.
4.If a managed audit is completed under the terms
of a limited managed audit agreement, the department may audit the issues not
covered by the limited managed audit agreement within the statute of
limitations prescribed by section 421104.
B.If the department issues a notice of proposed
assessment of taxes imposed by chapter 5, article 1 or 4 of this title or title
43, chapter 10, the department may not increase the amount of the proposed
assessment except in one or more of the following circumstances:
1.The taxpayer has made a material
misrepresentation of facts.
2.The taxpayer has failed to disclose a material
fact to the auditor.
3.The department has requested information and the
taxpayer fails to provide that information to the department.
4.After issuing the notice of proposed assessment
but before the assessment becomes final the tax court, court of appeals or
supreme court issues a decision, the application of which causes the tax
initially proposed to increase.
C.Subsection B of this section does not apply to
changes or corrections that are required to be reported to the department by
section 43327. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-2062, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2062.Abatement of penalties; definition
A.If a taxpayer has been assessed a penalty
pursuant to section 421107, 421125, 43581 or 43582,
the department, on written application by the taxpayer, shall abate the penalty
if it determines that the conduct, or lack of conduct, that caused the penalty
to be imposed was due to reasonable cause and not due to wilful neglect.
B.If, before an assessment is issued, a taxpayer
applies in writing requesting waiver of a penalty that may be assessed pursuant
to section 421107, 421125, 43581 or 43582, the
department shall not assess that penalty if it determines that the conduct, or
lack of conduct, that would cause the imposition of the penalty was due to reasonable
cause and not due to wilful neglect.
C.If a
taxpayer has been assessed a penalty pursuant to this title and the department
determines that the penalty was imposed due to an error by the department, the
department shall abate the penalty and provide a written withdrawal of the
imposed penalty to the taxpayer.
C.D.For the purpose
of this section, and only as applied to the taxes imposed by chapter 5,
articles 1 through 6 and chapter 6, article 3 of this title, "reasonable
cause" includes situations in which the taxpayer had a reasonable basis to
believe that the tax did not apply to the business activity or the storage, use
or consumption of the taxpayer's tangible personal property in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Transfer of powers; effect
A.All matters, including contracts, orders and
judicial or quasijudicial actions, whether completed or pending, of the
Arizona taxpayer assistance office within the department of revenue are
transferred, on the effective date of this act, and maintain the same status
with the Arizona taxpayer assistance office within the office of ombudsmancitizens
aide.
B.All personnel who are under the state personnel
system and employed by the Arizona taxpayer assistance office within the
department of revenue are transferred to the office of ombudsmancitizens
aide.

