







REFERENCE TITLE: cash assistance; eligibility; children







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2452









Introduced by
Representatives
  Weninger, Bolding, Brophy McGee, Cobb, Coleman, Fann, Senator Hobbs:
  Representatives Ackerley, Allen J, Boyer, Carter, Clark, Espinoza, Gray,
  Kern, Livingston, Mesnard, Montenegro, Rivero, Shope, Townsend, Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

Amending section
46292, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to temporary assistance for
needy families.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 46-292, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-292.Eligibility for assistance
A.A family without a dependent child in the
household may not receive cash assistance.
B.Cash assistance may be given under this title to
any dependent child and member of a needy family:
1.Who has established residence in Arizona at the
time of application and who is
either:
(a)A citizen by birth or naturalization.
(b)A qualified alien who entered the United States
on or before August 21, 1996.
(c)A qualified alien who entered the United States
as a member of one of the exception groups under Public Law 104193,
section 412, in which case the person shall be determined eligible in
accordance with Public Law 104193.
(d)Defined as a qualified alien by the attorney
general of the United States under the authority of Public Law 104208,
section 501.
For the purposes of subdivisions (b)
and (c) of this paragraph, "qualified alien" means a person who is
defined as a qualified alien under Public Law 104193, section 431.
2.If the parent or parents of the dependent child
or the nonparent relative head of household receiving assistance, if
employable, does not refuse to accept available employment.The
department shall assess the applicant's employability at the time of initial
application for assistance to establish a selfsufficiency diversion
option, if appropriate, before benefit issuance. The determination of
employability and the conditions under which employment shall be required shall
be determined by the state department, except that claimed unemployability
because of physical or mental incapacity shall be determined by the state
department in accordance with this title.
3.If the parent or parents of the dependent child
or the nonparent head of household in a needy family has not, within one year prior to before application, or while a recipient,
transferred or assigned real or personal property with the intent to evade
federal or state eligibility requirements.Transfer of property with
retention of a life estate for the purpose of qualifying for assistance is
prohibited. Where fair consideration for the property was received, no inquiry
into motive is necessary. A person found ineligible under this section shall
be ineligible for such time as the state department determines.
4.Who meets the requirements of this section and
department rule to qualify as part of the assistance unit.
C.Qualified aliens entering the United States after
August 21, 1996 are ineligible for benefits for a period of five years
beginning on their date of entry, except for Cuban and Haitian entrants as
defined in section 501(e)(2) of the refugee education assistance act of 1980
and exceptions provided under Public Law 104193 (personal responsibility
and work opportunity reconciliation act of 1996) and Public Law 10532
(balanced budget act of 1997).
D.A parent or any other relative who applies for or
who receives cash
assistance under this title on behalf of a child shall cooperate with the
department by taking the following actions:
1.Providing information regarding the identity of
the child's father and mother and other pertinent information including their
names, social security numbers and current addresses or a sworn statement that
attests to the lack of this information and that is accompanied by facts supporting
the asserted lack of information.
2.Appearing at interviews, hearings and legal
proceedings.
3.Submitting and having the child submit to genetic
testing.
4.Signing authorizations for third parties to
release information concerning the applicant or the child, or both.
5.In cases in which parentage has not been
established, providing a sworn statement alleging paternity and setting forth
facts establishing a reasonable possibility of the requisite sexual contact
between the parties.
6.Supplying additional information the department
requires.
E.The department shall sanction a recipient who,
without good cause as prescribed in subsection F of this section, fails to
cooperate with child support enforcement efforts according to the sanction provisions
of section 46300.
F.One or more of the following circumstances
constitute good cause for failure to cooperate with child support enforcement
efforts:
1.Cooperation may result in physical or emotional harm to the parent, child for whom support is sought or
caretaker relative with whom the child is living.
2.Legal proceedings for adoption of the child for
whom support is sought are pending before a court.
3.The participant has been working, for less than
ninety days, with a public or licensed private social agency on the issue of
whether to allow the child for whom support is sought to be adopted.
4.The child for whom support is sought was
conceived as a result of sexual assault pursuant to section 131406 or
incest.
G.A person claiming good cause has twenty days from
the date the good cause claim is provided to the agency to supply evidence
supporting the claim.When determining whether the parent or
relative is cooperating with the agency as provided in subsection D of this section,
the agency shall require:
1.If the good cause exception in subsection F,
paragraph 1 of this section is claimed, law enforcement, court, medical,
criminal, psychological, social service or governmental records or sworn
statements from persons with personal knowledge of the circumstances that
indicate that the alleged parent or obligor might inflict physical harm on the
parent, child or caretaker relative.
2.If the good cause exception in subsection F,
paragraph 2 of this section is claimed, court documents that indicate that
legal proceedings for adoption are pending before a court of competent
jurisdiction.
3.If the good cause exception in subsection F,
paragraph 3 of this section is claimed, records from a public or licensed
private social services agency showing that placing the child for whom support
is sought is under consideration.
4.If the good cause exception in subsection F,
paragraph 4 of this section is claimed, law enforcement, court, medical,
criminal, psychological, social service or governmental records or sworn
statements from persons with personal knowledge of the circumstances
surrounding the conception of the child that indicate the child was conceived
as a result of sexual assault pursuant to section 131406 or incest.
H.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section and
except as provided in subsection I of this section, a dependent child or
children who are born during one of the following time periods are not eligible
for assistance under this title:
1.The period in which the parent or other relative
is receiving assistance benefits.
2.The temporary period in which the parent or other
relative is ineligible pursuant to a penalty imposed by the department for
failure to comply with benefit eligibility requirements, after which the parent
or other relative is eligible for a continuation of benefits.
3.Any period after November 1, 1995 that is less
than sixty months between a voluntary withdrawal from program benefits or a
period of ineligibility for program benefits which immediately followed a
period during which program benefits were received and a subsequent
reapplication and eligibility approval for benefits.
I.The following exceptions apply to subsection H of
this section:
1.The department shall allow an increase in cash
assistance under the program for a dependent child or children born as a result
of an act of sexual assault as prescribed
in pursuant to section
131406 or incest. The department shall ensure that the proper law
enforcement authorities are notified of allegations of sexual assault or incest
made pursuant to this paragraph. For the purposes of this paragraph, "an
act of sexual assault" includes sexual assault of a spouse if the offense
was committed before August 12, 2005.
2.For those parents or other relatives who are
currently authorized for cash assistance the department shall allow an increase
in cash assistance under the program as a result of the birth of a child or
children to the parent or other relative only if the birth occurred within ten
months of the initial eligible month. The department may use only the
additional child or children who are born from the pregnancies covered in this
subsection in computing the additional benefit.
3.The department
shall allow an increase in cash assistance for any dependent child born to a
parent who has not received cash assistance under this title for at least
twelve consecutive months if the child is born within the period beginning ten
months after the twelve consecutive month period and ending ten months after
the parent resumes receiving cash assistance.
4.A dependent child or children who were born
during a period in which the custodial parent received cash assistance through
the Arizona works program shall be eligible to receive assistance under this title.
5.A dependent child or children who were born
within ten months after the custodial parent received cash assistance through
the Arizona works program shall be eligible to receive assistance under this
title.
6.The
department of economic security shall allow cash assistance for an otherwise
eligible dependent child during the period in which the dependent child is in
the legal custody of the department of child safety and is placed in unlicensed
kinship foster care with a nonparent relative.
7.The
department shall allow cash assistance for an otherwise eligible child who
meets one of the following:
(a)The court has placed the child
with a nonparent relative.
(b)The child's parents are deceased
and the child is living with a nonparent relative.
(c)A nonparent relative has custody
of the child because the child is abandoned as defined in section 8201.
J.The department shall calculate the sixtymonth
time period referenced in subsection H, paragraph 3 of this section in the
following manner:
1.For persons who are receiving cash assistance on
November 1, 1995, the sixtymonth time period begins on November 1,
1995. A subsequent sixtymonth time period begins immediately after the
previous period ends if the person is receiving cash assistance through two
sixtymonth periods.If the individual is not receiving cash
assistance at the end of the previous sixtymonth period, any subsequent
sixtymonth time period begins on the date when cash assistance became
effective again, regardless of when the person received an actual payment.
2.For persons who begin receiving cash assistance
after November 1, 1995, the sixtymonth time period begins on the date
cash assistance becomes effective, regardless of when the person received an
actual payment.A subsequent sixtymonth period begins as
provided in paragraph 1 of this subsection.
K.In calculating a parent's or any other relative's
benefit increase that arises from any general increase that has been approved
for all program recipients, the department shall not consider a child or
children born under the time periods listed in subsection H of this section.
L.For the parents or other relatives who have
additional children for whom they receive no cash assistance payment under
subsection H of this section, the department shall make any necessary program
amendments or request any necessary federal waivers to allow the parents or
other relatives to earn income in an amount equal to the disallowed cash
assistance payment without affecting their eligibility for assistance.
M.The director shall adopt rules:
1.To implement this section, including rules to
define the investigatory steps that must be taken to confirm that an act of
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406
or incest led to the birth of a dependent child or children.
2.That require the department to inform both
verbally and in writing the parents and other relatives who are receiving
assistance under this article of the specific family planning services that are
available to them while they are enrolled as eligible persons in the Arizona
health care cost containment system.
N.Nothing in
This section shall be construed to
does not prevent an
otherwise eligible child who is not included in the family's calculation of
benefits under this article from being eligible for coverage under title 36,
chapter 29 or for any services that are directly linked to eligibility for the
temporary assistance for needy families program.
O.Assistance shall not be denied or terminated
under this article because the principal wage earner works one hundred or more
hours per month.
P.Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this
subsection, all members of a needy family, including stepparents, must meet the
same financial eligibility criteria established in this title, by department
rule and as follows:
1.The department shall include all income from
every source available to a needy family requesting cash assistance, except
income that is required to be disregarded by this subsection and as determined
by the department in rules.For the amount of income that is
received from employment, each month every employed person is entitled to
receive an earned income disregard of ninety dollars plus an additional thirty per cent percent of the remaining earned income. A needy
family that includes an employed person is entitled to an earned income
disregard equal to the actual amount billed to the household for the care of an
adult or child dependent household member, up to two hundred dollars a month
for a child under two years of age and up to one hundred seventyfive
dollars a month for each other dependent.This dependent care
disregard is allowed only if the expense is necessary to allow the household
member to become or remain employed or to attend postsecondary training or
education that is preparatory to employment.
2.The total gross countable income of a needy
family that includes a nonparent relative head of household who is not applying
for or receiving cash assistance and who is requesting cash assistance only for
a dependent child shall not exceed one hundred thirty per cent
percent of the federal poverty guidelines.
Q.If the total gross countable income in subsection
P, paragraph 2 of this section does not exceed one hundred thirty per cent percent of the federal poverty guidelines, in
determining benefit amount, the department shall exclude the income of all
members of the needy family except for the income of the eligible dependent
child for whom cash assistance is requested.
R.For the purposes of eligibility and benefit
amount, only the income of the dependent child is considered for a child only
case.
S.Any parent or other relative who applies for or
receives cash assistance under this article on behalf of a dependent child who
is between six and sixteen years of age shall ensure that the child is enrolled
in and attending school. An initial applicant is ineligible for benefits until
the applicant's dependent children are verified to be enrolled in and attending
an educational program. The department of education shall assist the
department of economic security in obtaining verification of school enrollment
and attendance. The director of the department of economic security may adopt
rules for granting good cause exceptions from this subsection.The
department of economic security shall sanction a recipient who fails, without
good cause, to ensure school enrollment and attendance according to section 46300.
T.Any parent or other relative who applies for or
receives cash assistance under this section on behalf of a dependent child
shall ensure that the child is immunized in accordance with the schedule of
immunizations pursuant to section 36672. The director of the department
of economic security may adopt rules for granting good cause exceptions from
this subsection.The department of economic security shall sanction
a recipient, in accordance with section 46300, who fails, without good
cause, to obtain the required immunizations for a dependent child unless the
recipient submits to the department of economic security the documentation
described in section 15873. END_STATUTE

