







REFERENCE TITLE: sporting event tax revenue; tourism







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2495









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston, Allen J, Borrelli, Cardenas, Coleman, Espinoza, Senator
  Contreras: Representatives Fann, Shope, Senators Begay, Dial, Smith





AN ACT

Amending sections
412306 and 425029, Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending Title 42,
chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 425032.03;
amending sections 42-5061, 42-5073 and 42-5074, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to transaction privilege tax revenue.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2306, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2306.Tourism fund
A.The tourism fund is established consisting of
separate accounts derived from:
1.State general fund monies appropriated to the fund
by the legislature. All monies in this account are continuously appropriated
to the office of tourism for the purposes of operations and statewide tourism
promotion.
2.Revenues deposited pursuant to section 5835,
subsection B or C. All monies in this account are continuously appropriated to
the office of tourism, which, in consultation with a consortium of destination
marketing organizations in the county in which the tourism and sports authority
is established, shall be ensure that the monies are spent
to promote tourism within that county. For
fiscal years 20102011 and 20112012, fifty per cent of the
revenues deposited in the tourism fund pursuant to this paragraph may be
expended by the office of tourism for operational and administrative purposes.
3.Revenues deposited pursuant to section 426108.01.The
legislature shall appropriate all monies in this account to the office of
tourism, which, in conjunction with the destination marketing organization in
the county in which the tax revenues are collected, shall be
ensure that the monies are spent only to promote tourism within
that county and shall not be spent for administrative or
overhead expenses.
4.Revenues deposited pursuant to section 5601.02(H)(3)(b)(iv).
The office of tourism shall administer the account. The account is not subject
to appropriation, and expenditures from the fund are not subject to outside
approval notwithstanding any statutory provision to the contrary. Monies
received pursuant to section 5601.02 shall be deposited directly with
this account. On notice from the office of tourism, the state treasurer may
invest and divest monies in the account as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the account. No monies
in the account shall revert to or be deposited in any other fund, including the
state general fund.Monies in this account shall supplement, not
supplant, current funds in other accounts of the tourism fund. Monies in this
account shall be spent only to promote tourism within the state and shall not
be used for administrative or overhead expenses.
5.Revenues
deposited pursuant to section 425032.03. The office of tourism shall
administer this account.Monies in the account are continuously
appropriated. On notice from the office of tourism, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest monies in the account as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the account. Monies in
the account may not revert to or be deposited in any other fund, including the
state general fund.Monies in this account shall supplement, not
supplant, current monies in other accounts of the tourism fund. Monies in this
account shall be spent only for the purposes prescribed by section 425032.03
and may not be used for administrative or overhead expenses.
B.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-5029, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5029.Remission and distribution of monies; definition
A.The department shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all revenues collected
under this article and articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter pursuant to section
421116, separately accounting for:
1.Payments of estimated
tax under section 425014, subsection D.
2.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425070.
3.Revenues collected
under this article and article 5 of this chapter from and after June 30, 2000
from sources located on Indian reservations in this state.
4.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D.
B.The department shall
credit payments of estimated tax to an estimated tax clearing account and each
month shall transfer all monies in the estimated tax clearing account to a fund
designated as the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account.
The department shall credit all other payments to the transaction privilege and
severance tax clearing account, separately accounting for the monies designated
as distribution base under sections 425010, 425164, 425205
and 425353.Each month the department shall report to the
state treasurer the amount of monies collected pursuant to this article and
articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter.
C.On notification by
the department, the state treasurer shall distribute the monies deposited in
the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account in the manner
prescribed by this section and by sections 425164, 425205 and 425353,
after deducting warrants drawn against the account pursuant to sections 421118
and 421254.
D.Of the monies
designated as distribution base, and subject to the requirements of section 425041,
the department shall:
1.Pay twentyfive
percent to the various incorporated municipalities in this state in proportion
to their population to be used by the municipalities for any municipal purpose.
2.Pay 38.08 percent to
the counties in this state by averaging the following proportions:
(a)The proportion that
the population of each county bears to the total state population.
(b)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base
monies collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B,
section 425205, subsection B and section 425353 throughout the
state for the calendar month.
3.Pay an additional
2.43 percent to the counties in this state as follows:
(a)Average the
following proportions:
(i)The proportion that
the assessed valuation used to determine secondary property taxes of each
county, after deducting that part of the assessed valuation that is exempt from
taxation at the beginning of the month for which the amount is to be paid,
bears to the total assessed valuations used to determine secondary property
taxes of all the counties after deducting that portion of the assessed
valuations that is exempt from taxation at the beginning of the month for which
the amount is to be paid. Property of a city or town that is not within or
contiguous to the municipal corporate boundaries and from which water is or may
be withdrawn or diverted and transported for use on other property is
considered to be taxable property in the county for purposes of determining
assessed valuation in the county under this item.
(ii)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base monies
collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 throughout the state for the calendar
month.
(b)If the proportion
computed under subdivision (a) of this paragraph for any county is greater than
the proportion computed under paragraph 2 of this subsection, the department
shall compute the difference between the amount distributed to that county
under paragraph 2 of this subsection and the amount that would have been
distributed under paragraph 2 of this subsection using the proportion computed
under subdivision (a) of this paragraph and shall pay that difference to the
county from the amount available for distribution under this
paragraph.Any monies remaining after all payments under this subdivision
shall be distributed among the counties according to the proportions computed
under paragraph 2 of this subsection.
4.After any
distributions required by sections 425030, 425030.01, 425031,
425032, 425032.01,
and 425032.02 and 42-5032.03, and after
making any transfer to the water quality assurance revolving fund as required
by section 49282, subsection B, credit the remainder of the monies
designated as distribution base to the state general fund.From this
amount the legislature shall annually appropriate to:
(a)The department of
revenue sufficient monies to administer and enforce this article and articles 5
and 8 of this chapter.
(b)The department of
economic security monies to be used for the purposes stated in title 46,
chapter 1.
(c)The
firearms safety and ranges fund established by section 17273, fifty
thousand dollars derived from the taxes collected from the retail
classification pursuant to section 425061 for the current fiscal year.
E.If approved by the
qualified electors voting at a statewide general election, all monies collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D shall be distributed each fiscal year pursuant to this
subsection.The monies distributed pursuant to this subsection are
in addition to any other appropriation, transfer or other allocation of public
or private monies from any other source and shall not supplant, replace or
cause a reduction in other school district, charter school, university or
community college funding sources.The monies shall be distributed
as follows:
1.If there are
outstanding state school facilities revenue bonds pursuant to title 15, chapter
16, article 7, each month onetwelfth of the amount that is necessary to
pay the fiscal year's debt service on outstanding state school improvement
revenue bonds for the current fiscal year shall be transferred each month to
the school improvement revenue bond debt service fund established by section 152084.The
total amount of bonds for which these monies may be allocated for the payment
of debt service shall not exceed a principal amount of eight hundred million
dollars exclusive of refunding bonds and other refinancing obligations.
2.After any transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, twelve per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the technology and research initiative fund established by section 151648
to be distributed among the universities for the purpose of investment in
technology and researchbased initiatives.
3.After the transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, three per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the workforce development account established in each community college
district pursuant to section 151472 for the purpose of investment in
workforce development programs.
4.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the amount a community college that is owned, operated or chartered by a
qualifying Indian tribe on its own Indian reservation would receive pursuant to
section 151472, subsection D, paragraph 2 if it were a community college
district shall be distributed each month to the treasurer or other designated
depository of a qualifying Indian tribe. Monies distributed pursuant to this
paragraph are for the exclusive purpose of providing support to one or more
community colleges owned, operated or chartered by a qualifying Indian tribe
and shall be used in a manner consistent with section 151472, subsection
B. For the purposes of this paragraph, "qualifying Indian tribe" has
the same meaning as defined in section 425031.01, subsection D.
5.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the following amounts shall be transferred each month to the department of
education for the increased cost of basic state aid under section 15971
due to added school days and associated teacher salary increases enacted in
2000:
(a)In fiscal year 20012002,
$15,305,900.
(b)In fiscal year 20022003,
$31,530,100.
(c)In fiscal year 20032004,
$48,727,700.
(d)In fiscal year 20042005,
$66,957,200.
(e)In fiscal year 20052006
and each fiscal year thereafter, $86,280,500.
6.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, seven million
eight hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the department of education to be used for school
safety as provided in section 15154 and two hundred thousand dollars is
appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in monthly installments to the
department of education to be used for the character education matching grant
program as provided in section 15154.01.
7.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, no more than seven
million dollars may be appropriated by the legislature each fiscal year to the
department of education to be used for accountability purposes as described in
section 15241 and title 15, chapter 9, article 8.
8.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, one million five
hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the failing schools tutoring fund established by
section 15241.
9.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, twentyfive
million dollars shall be transferred each fiscal year to the state general fund
to reimburse the general fund for the cost of the income tax credit allowed by
section 431072.01.
10.After the payment of
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1 through 9 of this subsection, the remaining
monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to the
classroom site fund established by section 15977. The monies shall be
allocated as follows in the manner prescribed by section 15977:
(a)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for teacher compensation based on performance.
(b)Twenty per cent
shall be allocated for increases in teacher base compensation and employee
related expenses.
(c)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for maintenance and operation purposes.
F.The department shall
credit the remainder of the monies in the transaction privilege and severance
tax clearing account to the state general fund, subject to any distribution
required by section 425030.01.
G.Notwithstanding
subsection D of this section, if a court of competent jurisdiction finally
determines that tax monies distributed under this section were illegally
collected under this article or articles 5 and 8 of this chapter and orders the
monies to be refunded to the taxpayer, the department shall compute the amount
of such monies that was distributed to each city, town and county under this
section. Each city's, town's and county's proportionate share of the costs
shall be based on the amount of the original tax payment each municipality and
county received. Each month the state treasurer shall reduce the amount
otherwise distributable to the city, town and county under this section by one
thirtysixth of the total amount to be recovered from the city, town or
county until the total amount has been recovered, but the monthly reduction for
any city, town or county shall not exceed ten per cent of the full monthly
distribution to that entity.The reduction shall begin for the first
calendar month after the final disposition of the case and shall continue until
the total amount, including interest and costs, has been recovered.
H.On receiving a
certificate of default from the greater Arizona development authority pursuant
to section 412257 or 412258 and to the extent not otherwise
expressly prohibited by law, the state treasurer shall withhold from the next
succeeding distribution of monies pursuant to this section due to the
defaulting political subdivision the amount specified in the certificate of
default and immediately deposit the amount withheld in the greater Arizona
development authority revolving fund.The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold and deposit the monies until the greater Arizona
development authority certifies to the state treasurer that the default has
been cured.In no event may the state treasurer withhold any amount
that the defaulting political subdivision certifies to the state treasurer and
the authority as being necessary to make any required deposits then due for the
payment of principal and interest on bonds of the political subdivision that
were issued before the date of the loan repayment agreement or bonds and that
have been secured by a pledge of distributions made pursuant to this section.
I.Except as provided by
sections 425033 and 425033.01, the population of a county, city
or town as determined by the most recent United States decennial census plus
any revisions to the decennial census certified by the United States bureau of
the census shall be used as the basis for apportioning monies pursuant to
subsection D of this section.
J.Except as otherwise
provided by this subsection, on notice from the department of revenue pursuant
to section 426010, subsection B, the state treasurer shall withhold from
the distribution of monies pursuant to this section to the affected city or
town the amount of the penalty for business location municipal tax incentives
provided by the city or town to a business entity that locates a retail
business facility in the city or town.The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold monies pursuant to this subsection until the entire amount
of the penalty has been withheld.The state treasurer shall credit
any monies withheld pursuant to this subsection to the state general fund as
provided by subsection D, paragraph 4 of this section. The state treasurer
shall not withhold any amount that the city or town certifies to the department
of revenue and the state treasurer as being necessary to make any required
deposits or payments for debt service on bonds or other longterm
obligations of the city or town that were issued or incurred before the
location incentives provided by the city or town.
K.On notice from the
auditor general pursuant to section 9626, subsection D, the state
treasurer shall withhold from the distribution of monies pursuant to this
section to the affected city the amount computed pursuant to section 9626,
subsection D.The state treasurer shall continue to withhold monies
pursuant to this subsection until the entire amount specified in the notice has
been withheld. The state treasurer shall credit any monies withheld pursuant
to this subsection to the state general fund as provided by subsection D,
paragraph 4 of this section.
L.For
the purposes of this section, "community college district" means a
community college district that is established pursuant to sections 151402
and 151403 and that is a political subdivision of this state and, unless
otherwise specified, includes a community college tuition financing district established pursuant
to section 151409. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 42, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-5032.03, to read:
START_STATUTE42-5032.03.Distribution of tax revenues from special sporting events;
reports definitions
A.The state
treasurer shall pay, from the amount designated as distribution base pursuant
to section 425029, subsection D, the amount determined under subsection
B of this section to the office of tourism for the sole benefit of the host
facility of a special sporting event.The office of tourism shall
deposit the monies in the tourism fund as provided by section 412306.
B.The
amount to be paid to the office of tourism under subsection A of this section
is as follows:
1.If the
special sporting event project cost is at least fifty million dollars but less
than seventyfive million dollars, the amount of the special sporting
event tax revenue, but not more than one million dollars in any fiscal year.
2.If the
special sporting event project cost is at least seventyfive million
dollars but less than one hundred million dollars, the amount of the special
sporting event tax revenue, but not more than one million five hundred thousand
dollars in any fiscal year.
3.If the
special sporting event project cost is at least one hundred million dollars,
the amount of the special sporting event tax revenue, but not more than two
million dollars in any fiscal year.
C.The
office of tourism shall use the monies paid under this section solely to
promote and market the special sporting event and its host facility.
D.Payments
under this section are payable for thirty years beginning from the date that
the amount of the special sporting event project cost meets the minimum
threshold under subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section.
E.The
department shall report the amount under subsection B of this section to the
state treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the month for payment the
following month.
F.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Host
facility" means a complex facility in this state that has at least forty
thousand fixed seats, that requires a ticket for admission for viewing a
sporting event and that was chosen to host a special sporting event by a site selection
organization through a competitive selection process that included
consideration of at least one facility that is not located in this state.
2."Special
sporting event" means a sporting event that is sanctioned by a nationally
recognized premier national stock car auto racing series governing body that
establishes an annual schedule of sporting events and grants rights to conduct
the events, that has established and administers rules and regulations
governing all participants involved in the events and all persons conducting
the events and that requires certain liability assurances, including insurance.
3."Special
sporting event project" means:
(a)The acquisition of land subject
to property tax in this state to construct a host facility for a special
sporting event.
(b)The construction,
reconstruction, improvement or renovation of improvements to land subject to
property tax in this state of a host facility for a special sporting event.
4."Special
sporting event project cost" means the monies spent by the owner of the
host facility on the special sporting event project.
5."Special
sporting event tax revenue" means the amount of state transaction
privilege tax revenues directly attributable to the special sporting event from
persons conducting business under the retail, amusement and restaurant
classifications at or with respect to the special sporting event held at the
host facility. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-5061, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5061.Retail classification; definitions
A.The retail classification is comprised of the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail.The tax
base for the retail classification is the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income derived from the business. The tax imposed on the retail classification
does not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from:
1.Professional or personal service occupations or
businesses that involve sales or transfers of tangible personal property only
as inconsequential elements.
2.Services rendered
in addition to selling tangible personal property at retail.
3.Sales of warranty
or service contracts.The storage, use or consumption of tangible
personal property provided under the conditions of such contracts is subject to
tax under section 425156.
4.Sales of tangible personal property by any
nonprofit organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable
purposes and recognized by the United States internal revenue service under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
5.Sales to persons engaged in business classified
under the restaurant classification of articles used by human beings for food,
drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
6.Business activity that is properly included in
any other business classification that is taxable under this article.
7.The sale of stocks and bonds.
8.Drugs and medical oxygen, including delivery
hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the prescription of a member of the
medical, dental or veterinarian profession who is licensed by law to administer
such substances.
9.Prosthetic appliances as defined in section 23501
and as prescribed or
recommended by a health professional who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 29.
10.Insulin, insulin syringes and glucose test
strips.
11.Prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses.
12.Hearing aids as defined in section 361901.
13.Durable medical equipment that has a centers for
medicare and medicaid services common procedure code, is designated
reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a person who is licensed under title
32, chapter 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 17 or 29, can withstand repeated use, is
primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is generally not
useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is appropriate for
use in the home.
14.Sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this
state for use outside this state if the motor vehicle dealer ships or delivers
the motor vehicle to a destination out of this state.
15.Food, as provided in and subject to the
conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
16.Items purchased with United States department of
agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113;
91 Stat. 958) or food instruments issued under section 17 of the child
nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat. 3603; P.L. 99661, section
4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
17.Textbooks by any bookstore that are required by
any state university or community college.
18.Food and drink to a person that is engaged in a
business that is classified under the restaurant classification and that provides
such food and drink without monetary charge to its employees for their own
consumption on the premises during the employees' hours of employment.
19.Articles of food, drink or condiment and
accessory tangible personal property to a school district or charter school if
such articles and accessory tangible personal property are to be prepared and
served to persons for consumption on the premises of a public school within the
district or on the premises of the charter school during school hours.
20.Lottery tickets or shares pursuant to title 5,
chapter 5.1, article1.
21.The sale of cash equivalents and the sale of
precious metal bullion and monetized bullion to the ultimate consumer, but the
sale of coins or other forms of money for manufacture into jewelry or works of
art is subject to the tax and the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the redemption of any cash equivalent by the holder as a means of
payment for goods or services that are taxable under this article is subject to
the tax. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Cash equivalents" means items or
intangibles, whether or not negotiable, that are sold to one or more persons,
through which a value denominated in money is purchased in advance and may be
redeemed in full or in part for tangible personal property, intangibles or
services.Cash equivalents include gift cards, stored value cards,
gift certificates, vouchers, traveler's checks, money orders or other
instruments, orders or electronic mechanisms, such as an electronic code,
personal identification number or digital payment mechanism, or any other
prepaid intangible right to acquire tangible personal property, intangibles or
services in the future, whether from the seller of the cash equivalent or from
another person. Cash equivalents do not include either of the following:
(i)Items or intangibles that are sold to one or
more persons, through which a value is not denominated in money.
(ii)Prepaid calling cards or prepaid authorization
numbers for telecommunications services made taxable by subsection P of this
section.
(b)"Monetized bullion" means coins and
other forms of money that are manufactured from gold, silver or other metals
and that have been or are used as a medium of exchange in this or another state,
the United States or a foreign nation.
(c)"Precious metal bullion" means
precious metal, including gold, silver, platinum, rhodium and palladium, that
has been smelted or refined so that its value depends on its contents and not
on its form.
22.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel that are subject
to a tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, sales of use fuel to a
holder of a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued under section 285739,
sales of aviation fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under section 288344
and sales of jet fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under article 8 of
this chapter.
23.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in the business of leasing or renting such property under the personal
property rental classification if such property is to be leased or rented by
such person.
24.Tangible personal property sold in interstate or
foreign commerce if prohibited from being so taxed by the constitution of the
United States or the constitution of this state.
25.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)A qualifying hospital as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
(c)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the organization is dedicated to providing
educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family medical education training
for blind and visually impaired children and children with multiple
disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(d)A qualifying community health center as defined
in section 425001.
(e)A nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified
under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves
meals to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
(f)For taxable periods beginning from and after
June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that provides residential
apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a
facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the tangible personal
property is used by the organization solely to provide residential apartment
housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a facility
that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(g)A qualifying health sciences educational
institution as defined in section 425001.
(h)Any person representing or working on behalf of
another person described in subdivisions (a) through (g) of this paragraph if
the tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project
described in section 425075, subsection O.
26.Magazines or other periodicals or other
publications by this state to encourage tourist travel.
27.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)A person that is subject to tax under this
article by reason of being engaged in business classified under section 425075
or to a subcontractor working under the control of a person engaged in business
classified under section 425075, if the property so sold is any of the
following:
(i)Incorporated or fabricated by the person into
any real property, structure, project, development or improvement as part of
the business.
(ii)Incorporated or fabricated by the person into
any project described in section 425075, subsection O.
(iii)Used in environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
(b)A person that is not subject to tax under
section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of a certificate under
section 425009, subsection L, if the property so sold is incorporated or
fabricated by the person into the real property, structure, project,
development or improvement described in the certificate.
28.The sale of a motor vehicle to:
(a)A nonresident of this state if the purchaser's
state of residence does not allow a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter and if the nonresident has secured a
special ninety day nonresident registration permit for the vehicle as
prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01.
(b)An enrolled member of an Indian tribe who
resides on the Indian reservation established for that tribe.
29.Tangible personal property purchased in this
state by a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section
501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code and that engages in and
uses such property exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical
disabilities if the programs are exclusively for training, job placement,
rehabilitation or testing.
30.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is
associated with a major league baseball team or a national touring professional
golfing association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
31.Sales of commodities, as defined by title 7
United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale in a warehouse in
this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a contract for
future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market regulated by the
United States commodity futures trading commission.
32.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if
the organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and
ranch animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
33.Sales of seeds, seedlings, roots, bulbs,
cuttings and other propagative material to persons who use those items to
commercially produce agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural
crops in this state.
34.Machinery, equipment, technology or related
supplies that are only useful to assist a person with a physical disability as
defined in section 46191 or a person who has a developmental disability
as defined in section 36551 or has a head injury as defined in section
413201 to be more independent and functional.
35.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
36.Paper machine clothing, such as forming fabrics
and dryer felts, sold to a paper manufacturer and directly used or consumed in
paper manufacturing.
37.Coal, petroleum, coke, natural gas, virgin fuel
oil and electricity sold to a qualified environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 and directly used
or consumed in the generation or provision of on-site power or energy solely
for environmental technology manufacturing, producing or processing or
environmental protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full
consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper
manufacturing machine is placed in service. In the case of an environmental
technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does not manufacture paper,
the time period shall begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing
or production equipment is placed in service.
38.Sales of liquid, solid or gaseous chemicals used
in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining, refining, metallurgical
operations, research and development and, beginning on January 1, 1999,
printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as part of an
integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the materials from
which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or permitting a
chemical or physical change to occur in the materials as part of the production
process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are used or consumed
in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but does not affect
any deduction for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by this section.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a commercial
printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing, copying and
bookbinding.
39.Through December 31, 1994, personal property liquidation
transactions, conducted by a personal property liquidator. From and after
December 31, 1994, personal property liquidation transactions shall be taxable
under this section provided that nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to authorize the taxation of casual activities or transactions under this
chapter. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Personal property liquidation
transaction" means a sale of personal property made by a personal property
liquidator acting solely on behalf of the owner of the personal property sold
at the dwelling of the owner or on the death of any owner, on behalf of the
surviving spouse, if any, any devisee or heir or the personal representative of
the estate of the deceased, if one has been appointed.
(b)"Personal property liquidator" means a
person who is retained to conduct a sale in a personal property liquidation
transaction.
40.Sales of food, drink and condiment for
consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or other institution under
the jurisdiction of the state department of corrections, the department of
public safety, the department of juvenile corrections or a county sheriff.
41.A motor vehicle and any repair and replacement
parts and tangible personal property becoming a part of such motor vehicle sold
to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28, chapter 16,
article 4 and who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting such
property.
42.Livestock and poultry feed, salts, vitamins and
other additives for livestock or poultry consumption that are sold to persons
who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry
products or who are engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For
the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
43.Sales of implants used as growth promotants and
injectable medicines, not already exempt under paragraph 8 of this subsection,
for livestock or poultry owned by or in possession of persons who are engaged
in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry products or who are
engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
44.Sales of motor vehicles at auction to
nonresidents of this state for use outside this state if the vehicles are
shipped or delivered out of this state, regardless of where title to the motor
vehicles passes or its free on board point.
45.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in business and subject to tax under the transient lodging
classification if the tangible personal property is a personal hygiene item or
articles used by human beings for food, drink or condiment, except alcoholic
beverages, that are furnished without additional charge to and intended to be
consumed by the transient during the transient's occupancy.
46.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
47.Sales of materials that are purchased by or for
publicly funded libraries including school district libraries, charter school
libraries, community college libraries, state university libraries or federal,
state, county or municipal libraries for use by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or photographic materials, beginning
August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or digital media materials, beginning
July 17, 1994.
48.Tangible personal property sold to a commercial
airline and consisting of food, beverages and condiments and accessories used
for serving the food and beverages, if those items are to be provided without
additional charge to passengers for consumption in flight. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "commercial airline" means a person holding a federal
certificate of public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit
for air transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
49.Sales of alternative fuel vehicles if the
vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted to operate on
alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a conventional diesel fuel
motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215.
50.Sales of any spirituous, vinous or malt liquor
by a person that is licensed in this state as a wholesaler by the department of
liquor licenses and control pursuant to title 4, chapter 2, article 1.
51.Sales of tangible personal property to be
incorporated or installed as part of environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
52.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(6) of
the internal revenue code if the organization produces, organizes or promotes
cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part of the organization's
net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
53.Application services that are designed to assess
or test student learning or to promote curriculum design or enhancement
purchased by or for any school district, charter school, community college or
state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application services" means software
applications provided remotely using hypertext transfer protocol or another
network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum design or enhancement"
means planning, implementing or reporting on courses of study, lessons,
assignments or other learning activities.
54.Sales of motor vehicle fuel and use fuel to a
qualified business under section 411516 for off-road use in harvesting,
processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from qualifying
projects as defined in section 411516.
55.Sales of repair parts installed in equipment
used directly by a qualified business under section 411516 in
harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from
qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
56.Sales or other transfers of renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power utility to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
57.Computer data center equipment purchased by the
owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of the computer data center or
an authorized agent of the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant
during the qualification period for use in a computer data center that is
certified by the Arizona commerce authority under section 411519. To
qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase, the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer its certificate that
is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that establishes its
qualification for the deduction.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"computer data center", "computer data center equipment",
"qualification period" and "qualified colocation tenant"
have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
58.Orthodontic devices dispensed by a dental
professional who is licensed under title 32, chapter 11 to a patient as part of
the practice of dentistry.
59.Sales of tangible personal property incorporated
or fabricated into a project described in section 425075, subsection O,
that is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for
which the owner, as defined in section 425075, of the project is an
Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated Indian" means an
individual native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was established.
(b)"Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by treaty, law or executive
order and that are recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe" means any organized nation,
tribe, band or community that is recognized as an Indian tribe by the United
States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under the laws
of the Indian tribe.
B.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from sales of the following categories of tangible
personal property shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Machinery, or equipment, used directly in
manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining or metallurgical
operations. The terms "manufacturing", "processing",
"fabricating", "job printing", "refining" and
"metallurgical" as used in this paragraph refer to and include those
operations commonly understood within their ordinary meaning.
"Metallurgical operations" includes leaching, milling, precipitating,
smelting and refining.
2.Mining machinery, or equipment, used directly in
the process of extracting ores or minerals from the earth for commercial
purposes, including equipment required to prepare the materials for extraction
and handling, loading or transporting such extracted material to the
surface."Mining" includes underground, surface and open
pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal property sold to persons
engaged in business classified under the telecommunications classification,
including a person representing or working on behalf of such a person in a
manner described in section 425075, subsection O, and consisting of central
office switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment,
microwave radio equipment and carrier equipment including optical fiber,
coaxial cable and other transmission media that are components of carrier
systems.
4.Machinery, equipment or transmission lines used
directly in producing or transmitting electrical power, but not including
distribution. Transformers and control equipment used at transmission
substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or transmitting electrical
power.
5.Neat animals, horses, asses, sheep, ratites,
swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or production stock, including
sales of breedings or ownership shares in such animals used for breeding or
production.
6.Pipes or valves four inches in diameter or larger
used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial gas, water or coal slurry,
including compressor units, regulators, machinery and equipment, fittings,
seals and any other part that is used in operating the pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft, navigational and communication
instruments and other accessories and related equipment sold to:
(a)A person holding a federal certificate of public
convenience and necessity, a supplemental air carrier certificate under federal
aviation regulations (14 Code of Federal Regulations part 121) or a foreign air
carrier permit for air transportation for use as or in conjunction with or
becoming a part of aircraft to be used to transport persons, property or United
States mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
(b)Any foreign government.
(c)Persons who are not residents of this state and
who will not use such property in this state other than in removing such
property from this state.This subdivision also applies to
corporations that are not incorporated in this state, regardless of maintaining
a place of business in this state, if the principal corporate office is located
outside this state and the property will not be used in this state other than
in removing the property from this state.
8.Machinery, tools, equipment and related supplies
used or consumed directly in repairing, remodeling or maintaining aircraft,
aircraft engines or aircraft component parts by or on behalf of a certificated
or licensed carrier of persons or property.
9.Railroad rolling stock, rails, ties and signal
control equipment used directly to transport persons or property.
10.Machinery or equipment used directly to drill
for oil or gas or used directly in the process of extracting oil or gas from
the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban mass transit vehicles that
are used directly to transport persons or property for hire or pursuant to a
governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass transportation program and
that are sold to bus companies holding a federal certificate of convenience and
necessity or operated by any city, town or other governmental entity or by any
person contracting with such governmental entity as part of a governmentally
adopted and controlled program to provide urban mass transportation.
12.Groundwater measuring devices required under
section 45604.
13.New machinery and equipment consisting of
tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered implements,
machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and machinery and
equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip irrigation lines
not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and that are used for
commercial production of agricultural, horticultural, viticultural and
floricultural crops and products in this state. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"New machinery and equipment" means
machinery and equipment that have never been sold at retail except pursuant to
leases or rentals that do not total two years or more.
(b)"Selfpowered implements"
includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or equipment used in research and
development. For the purposes of this paragraph, "research and
development" means basic and applied research in the sciences and engineering,
and designing, developing or testing prototypes, processes or new products,
including research and development of computer software that is embedded in or
an integral part of the prototype or new product or that is required for
machinery or equipment otherwise exempt under this section to function
effectively. Research and development do not include manufacturing quality
control, routine consumer product testing, market research, sales promotion,
sales service, research in social sciences or psychology, computer software
research that is not included in the definition of research and development, or
other nontechnological activities or technical services.
15.Tangible personal property that is used by
either of the following to receive, store, convert, produce, generate, decode,
encode, control or transmit telecommunications information:
(a)Any direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47 Code of Federal
Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite television or data transmission
facility, if both of the following conditions are met:
(i)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during the test period were
transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission services that operate pursuant to 47 Code of
Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of those direct broadcast
television or data transmission services during the test period were
transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of
this paragraph, "test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive
day period beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal
property is purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission service first transmits information to its
customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real property.
Clean room:
(a)Includes the integrated systems, fixtures,
piping, movable partitions, lighting and all property that is necessary or
adapted to reduce contamination or to control airflow, temperature, humidity,
chemical purity or other environmental conditions or manufacturing tolerances,
as well as the production machinery and equipment operating in conjunction with
the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the building or other
permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses the clean room
environment.
17.Machinery and equipment used directly in the
feeding of poultry, the environmental control of housing for poultry, the
movement of eggs within a production and packaging facility or the sorting or
cooling of eggs. This exemption does not apply to vehicles used for
transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or equipment, including related
structural components, that is employed in connection with manufacturing,
processing, fabricating, job printing, refining, mining, natural gas pipelines,
metallurgical operations, telecommunications, producing or transmitting
electricity or research and development and that is used directly to meet or
exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal energy regulatory
commission, the United States environmental protection agency, the United
States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department of environmental
quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent, monitor, control
or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and equipment that are sold to a
person engaged in the commercial production of livestock, livestock products or
agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or products in
this state, including a person representing or working on behalf of such a
person in a manner described in section 425075, subsection O, if the
machinery and equipment are used directly and primarily to prevent, monitor,
control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or equipment that enables a television
station to originate and broadcast or to receive and broadcast digital
television signals and that was purchased to facilitate compliance with the
telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104; 110 Stat. 56; 47 United
States Code section 336) and the federal communications commission order issued
April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part 73). This paragraph does
not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or replacement parts purchased for the
machinery or equipment described in this paragraph.
(b)Machinery or equipment purchased to replace
machinery or equipment for which an exemption was previously claimed and taken
under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or equipment purchased after the
television station has ceased analog broadcasting, or purchased after November
1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment that is purchased from and
after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a qualified business under section
411516 for harvesting or processing qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516. To qualify for
this deduction, the qualified business at the time of purchase must present its
certification approved by the department.
C.The deductions provided by subsection B of this
section do not include sales of:
1.Expendable materials.For the purposes
of this paragraph, expendable materials do not include any of the categories of
tangible personal property specified in subsection B of this section regardless
of the cost or useful life of that property.
2.Janitorial equipment and hand tools.
3.Office equipment, furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal property used in selling or
distributing activities, other than the telecommunications transmissions
described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of this section.
5.Motor vehicles required to be licensed by this
state, except buses or other urban mass transit vehicles specifically exempted
pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this section, without regard to the use
of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings, docks, depots and all other
materials of whatever kind or character not specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and equipment or other tangible personal
property used by a contractor in the performance of a contract.
D.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, there shall be deducted from the
tax base the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from sales of
machinery, equipment, materials and other tangible personal property used
directly and predominantly to construct a qualified environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing facility as described in section 411514.02.
This subsection applies for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years after
the start of initial construction.
E.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income from retail sales of heavy trucks and trailers does not
include any amount attributable to federal excise taxes imposed by 26 United
States Code section 4051.
F.If a person is engaged in an occupation or
business to which subsection A of this section applies, the person's books
shall be kept so as to show separately the gross proceeds of sales of tangible
personal property and the gross income from sales of services, and if not so
kept the tax shall be imposed on the total of the person's gross proceeds of
sales of tangible personal property and gross income from services.
G.If a person is engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at both wholesale and retail, the tax under this
section applies only to the gross proceeds of the sales made other than at
wholesale if the person's books are kept so as to show separately the gross
proceeds of sales of each class, and if the books are not so kept, the tax
under this section applies to the gross proceeds of every sale so made.
H.A person who engages in manufacturing, baling,
crating, boxing, barreling, canning, bottling, sacking, preserving, processing
or otherwise preparing for sale or commercial use any livestock, agricultural
or horticultural product or any other product, article, substance or commodity
and who sells the product of such business at retail in this state is deemed,
as to such sales, to be engaged in business classified under the retail
classification.This subsection does not apply to businesses
classified under the:
1.Transporting classification.
2.Utilities classification.
3.Telecommunications classification.
4.Pipeline classification.
5.Private car line classification.
6.Publication classification.
7.Job printing classification.
8.Prime contracting classification.
9.Restaurant classification.
I.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the following shall be deducted from the tax base for the retail
classification:
1.Sales made directly to the United States
government or its departments or agencies by a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer.
2.Sales made directly to a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer if such sales are of any ingredient or component part of
products sold directly to the United States government or its departments or
agencies by the manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer.
3.Overhead materials or other tangible personal
property that is used in performing a contract between the United States
government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, including
property used in performing a subcontract with a government contractor who is a
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which title passes to the
government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
4.Sales of overhead materials or other tangible
personal property to a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer if the
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the property by the
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer will be exempt under paragraph 3
of this subsection.
J.There shall be deducted from the tax base fifty
percent of the gross proceeds or gross income from any sale of tangible
personal property made directly to the United States government or its
departments or agencies that is not deducted under subsection I of this
section.
K.The department shall require every person
claiming a deduction provided by subsection I or J of this section to file on
forms prescribed by the department at such times as the department directs a
sworn statement disclosing the name of the purchaser and the exact amount of sales
on which the exclusion or deduction is claimed.
L.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income does not include:
1.A manufacturer's cash rebate on the sales price
of a motor vehicle if the buyer assigns the buyer's right in the rebate to the
retailer.
2.The waste tire disposal fee imposed pursuant to
section 441302.
M.There shall be deducted from the tax base the
amount received from sales of solar energy devices.The retailer
shall register with the department as a solar energy retailer.By
registering, the retailer acknowledges that it will make its books and records
relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the department for
examination.
N.In computing the tax base in the case of the sale
or transfer of wireless telecommunications equipment as an inducement to a
customer to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications services
that are taxable under section 425064, gross proceeds of sales or gross
income does not include any sales commissions or other compensation received by
the retailer as a result of the customer entering into or continuing a contract
for the telecommunications services.
O.For the purposes of this section, a sale of
wireless telecommunications equipment to a person who holds the equipment for
sale or transfer to a customer as an inducement to enter into or continue a
contract for telecommunications services that are taxable under section 425064
is considered to be a sale for resale in the regular course of business.
P.Retail sales of prepaid calling cards or prepaid
authorization numbers for telecommunications services, including sales of
reauthorization of a prepaid card or authorization number, are subject to tax
under this section.
Q.For the purposes of this section, the diversion
of gas from a pipeline by a person engaged in the business of:
1.Operating a natural or artificial gas pipeline,
for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment to pressurize the
pipeline, is not a sale of the gas to the operator of the pipeline.
2.Converting natural gas into liquefied natural
gas, for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment used in the
conversion process, is not a sale of gas to the operator of the compressor
equipment.
R.For the purposes of this section, the transfer of
title or possession of coal from an owner or operator of a power plant to a
person in the business of refining coal is not a sale of coal if both of the
following apply:
1.The transfer of title or possession of the coal
is for the purpose of refining the coal.
2.The title or possession of the coal is
transferred back to the owner or operator of the power plant after completion
of the coal refining process.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"coal refining process"
means the application of a coal additive system that aids in the reduction of
power plant emissions during the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue
gas.
S.If a seller is entitled to a deduction pursuant
to subsection B, paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section, the department
may require the purchaser to establish that the requirements of subsection B,
paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied. If the
purchaser cannot establish that the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 15,
subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied, the purchaser is liable in
an amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest which
that the seller would have been required to pay under article 1
of this chapter if the seller had not made a deduction pursuant to subsection
B, paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section. Payment of the amount under
this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under
article 4 of this chapter and related to the tangible personal property
purchased. The amount shall be treated as transaction privilege tax to the
purchaser and as tax revenues collected from the seller to designate the
distribution base pursuant to section 425029.
T.For the purposes of section 425032.01, the
department shall separately account for revenues collected under the retail
classification from businesses selling tangible personal property at retail:
1.On the premises of a multipurpose facility that
is owned, leased or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to
title 5, chapter8.
2.At professional football contests that are held
in a stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents.
U.In computing the tax base for the sale of a motor
vehicle to a nonresident of this state, if the purchaser's state of residence
allows a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax imposed by article 1 of
this chapter and the rate of the tax in the purchaser's state of residence is
lower than the rate prescribed in article 1 of this chapter or if the
purchaser's state of residence does not impose an excise tax, and the
nonresident has secured a special ninety day nonresident registration permit
for the vehicle as prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01,
there shall be deducted from the tax base a portion of the gross proceeds or
gross income from the sale so that the amount of transaction privilege tax that
is paid in this state is equal to the excise tax that is imposed by the
purchaser's state of residence on the nonexempt sale or use of the motor
vehicle.
V.Beginning
January 1, 2020, for the purposes of section 42-5032.03, the department shall
separately account for revenues that are collected under the retail
classification from businesses selling tangible personal property at retail and
that are directly attributable to the special sporting event held at the host
facility.
V.W.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Aircraft" includes:
(a)An airplane flight simulator that is approved by
the federal aviation administration for use as a phase II or higher flight
simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of Federal Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal property that is permanently
affixed or attached as a component part of an aircraft that is owned or
operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or property.
2."Other accessories and related
equipment" includes aircraft accessories and equipment such as ground
service equipment that physically contact aircraft at some point during the
overall carrier operation.
3."Selling at retail" means a sale for
any purpose other than for resale in the regular course of business in the form
of tangible personal property, but transfer of possession, lease and rental as
used in the definition of sale mean only such transactions as are found on
investigation to be in lieu of sales as defined without the words lease or
rental.
W.X.For the purposes
of subsection I of this section:
1."Assembler" means a person who unites
or combines products, wares or articles of manufacture so as to produce a
change in form or substance without changing or altering the component parts.
2."Manufacturer" means a person who is
principally engaged in the fabrication, production or manufacture of products,
wares or articles for use from raw or prepared materials, imparting to those
materials new forms, qualities, properties and combinations.
3."Modifier" means a person who reworks,
changes or adds to products, wares or articles of manufacture.
4."Overhead materials" means tangible
personal property, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from
that would otherwise be included in the retail classification, and that are
used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the cost of which is charged
to an overhead expense account and allocated to various contracts based on
generally accepted accounting principles and consistent with government
contract accounting standards.
5."Repairer" means a person who restores
or renews products, wares or articles of manufacture.
6."Subcontract" means an agreement
between a contractor and any person who is not an employee of the contractor
for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in part, are necessary
to the performance of one or more government contracts, or under which any
portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more government contracts
is performed, undertaken or assumed and that includes provisions causing title
to overhead materials or other tangible personal property used in the
performance of the subcontract to pass to the government or that includes
provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a government contract
into the subcontract. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-5073, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5073.Amusement classification
A.The amusement classification is comprised of the
business of operating or conducting theaters, movies, operas, shows of any type
or nature, exhibitions, concerts, carnivals, circuses, amusement parks,
menageries, fairs, races, contests, games, billiard or pool parlors, bowling
alleys, public dances, dance halls, boxing and wrestling matches, skating
rinks, tennis courts, except as provided in subsection B of this section, video
games, pinball machines, sports events or any other business charging admission
or user fees for exhibition, amusement or entertainment, including the
operation or sponsorship of events by a tourism and sports authority under
title 5, chapter 8. For the purposes of this section, admission or user fees
include, but are not limited to, any revenues derived from any form of
contractual agreement for rights to or use of premium or special seating
facilities or arrangements.The amusement classification does not
include:
1.Activities or projects of bona fide religious or
educational institutions.
2.Private or group instructional
activities.For the purposes of this paragraph, "private or
group instructional activities" includes, but is not limited to,
performing arts, martial arts, gymnastics and aerobic instruction.
3.The operation or sponsorship of events by the
Arizona exposition and state fair board or county fair commissions.
4.A musical, dramatic or dance group or a botanical
garden, museum or zoo that is qualified as a nonprofit charitable organization
under section 501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code and if no
part of its net income inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
5.Exhibition events in this state sponsored,
conducted or operated by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation
under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if
the organization is associated with major league baseball teams or a national
touring professional golfing association and no part of the organization's net
earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
6.Operating or sponsoring rodeos that feature
primarily farm and ranch animals in this state and that are sponsored,
conducted or operated by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation
under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the
internal revenue code and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
7.Sales of admissions to intercollegiate football
contests if the contests are both:
(a)Operated by a nonprofit organization that is
exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and
no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
(b)Not held in a multipurpose facility that is
owned or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title 5,
chapter 8.
8.Activities and events of, or fees and assessments
received by, a homeowners organization from persons who are members of the
organization or accompanied guests of members.For the purposes of
this paragraph, "homeowners organization" means a mandatory
membership organization comprised of owners of residential property within a
specified residential real estate subdivision development or similar area and
established to own property for the benefit of its members where both of the
following apply:
(a)No part of the organization's net earnings
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(b)The primary purpose of the organization is to
provide for the acquisition, construction, management, maintenance or care of
organization property.
9.Activities and events of, or fees received by, a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(6) of
the internal revenue code if the organization produces, organizes or promotes
cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part of the organization's
net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
10.Arranging an amusement activity as a service to
a person's customers if that person is not otherwise engaged in the business of
operating or conducting an amusement personally or through others. This
exception does not apply to businesses that operate or conduct amusements
pursuant to customer orders and send the billings and receive the payments
associated with that activity, including when the amusement is performed by third party third-party independent contractors. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "arranging" includes billing for or
collecting amusement charges from a person's customers on behalf of the persons
providing the amusement.
B.The tax base for the amusement classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business, except
that the following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from memberships, including initiation fees, which provide for the
right to use a health or fitness establishment or a private recreational
establishment, or any portion of an establishment, including tennis and other
racquet courts at that establishment, for participatory purposes for twentyeight
days or more and fees charged for use of the health or fitness establishment or
private recreational establishment by bona fide accompanied guests of members,
except that this paragraph does not include additional fees, other than
initiation fees, charged by a health or fitness establishment or a private
recreational establishment for purposes other than memberships which
that provide for the right to use a health or fitness
establishment or private recreational establishment, or any portion of an
establishment, for participatory purposes for twentyeight days or more
and accompanied guest use fees.
2.Amounts that are exempt under section 5111,
subsection H.
3.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from membership fees, including initiation fees, that provide for the
right to use a transient lodging recreational establishment, including golf
courses and tennis and other racquet courts at that establishment, for
participatory purposes for twentyeight days or more, except that this
paragraph does not include additional fees, other than initiation fees, that
are charged by a transient lodging recreational establishment for purposes
other than memberships and that provide for the right to use a transient
lodging recreational establishment or any portion of the establishment for
participatory purposes for twentyeight days or more.
4.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from sales to persons engaged in the business of transient lodging
classified under section 425070, if all of the following apply:
(a)The persons who are engaged in the transient
lodging business sell the amusement to another person for consideration.
(b)The consideration received by the transient
lodging business is equal to or greater than the amount to be deducted under
this subsection.
(c)The transient lodging business has provided an
exemption certificate to the person engaging in business under this section.
5.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from:
(a)Business activity that is properly included in
any other business classification under this article and that is taxable to the
person engaged in that classification, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income to be deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the person
conducting the activity.
(b)Business activity that is arranged by the person
who is subject to tax under this section and that is not taxable to the person
conducting the activity due to an exclusion, exemption or deduction under this
section or section 425062, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income to be deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the person
conducting the activity.
(c)Business activity that is arranged by a person
who is subject to tax under this section and that is taxable to another person
under this section who conducts the activity, but the gross proceeds of sales
or gross income to be deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the
person conducting the activity.
C.For the purposes of subsection B of this section:
1."Health or fitness establishment" means
a facility whose primary purpose is to provide facilities, equipment,
instruction or education to promote the health and fitness of its members and
at least eighty per cent percent of the monthly gross
revenue of the facility is received through accounts of memberships and
accompanied guest use fees which provide for the right to use the facility, or
any portion of the facility, under the terms of the membership agreement for
participatory purposes for twentyeight days or more.
2."Private recreational establishment"
means a facility whose primary purpose is to provide recreational facilities,
such as tennis, golf and swimming, for its members and where at least eighty per cent percent of the monthly gross revenue of the
facility is received through accounts of memberships and accompanied guest use
fees which provide for the right to use the facility, or any portion of the
facility, for participatory purposes for twentyeight days or more.
3."Transient lodging recreational
establishment" means a facility whose primary purpose is to provide
facilities for transient lodging, that is subject to taxation under this
chapter and that also provides recreational facilities, such as tennis, golf
and swimming, for members for a period of twentyeight days or more.
D.Until December 31, 1988, the revenues from
hayrides and other animaldrawn amusement rides, from horseback riding
and riding instruction and from recreational tours using motor vehicles
designed to operate on and off public highways are exempt from the tax imposed
by this section. Beginning January 1, 1989, the gross proceeds or gross income
from hayrides and other animaldrawn amusement rides, from horseback
riding and from recreational tours using motor vehicles designed to operate on
and off public highways are subject to taxation under this
section.Tax liabilities, penalties and interest paid for taxable
periods before January 1, 1989 shall not be refunded unless the taxpayer
requesting the refund provides proof satisfactory to the department that the
taxes will be returned to the customer.
E.If a person is engaged in the business of
offering both exhibition, amusement or entertainment and private or group
instructional activities, the person's books shall be kept to show separately
the gross income from exhibition, amusement or entertainment and the gross
income from instructional activities.If the books do not provide
this separate accounting, the tax is imposed on the person's total gross income
from the business.
F.The department shall separately account for
revenues collected under the amusement classification for the purposes of
section 42-5029, subsection D, paragraph 4, subdivision (b).
G.For the
purposes of section 425032.01, the department shall separately account
for revenues collected under the amusement classification from sales of
admissions to:
1.Events that are held in a multipurpose facility
that is owned or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title
5, chapter 8, including intercollegiate football contests that are operated by
a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code.
2.Professional football contests that are held in a
stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents.
H.Beginning
January 1, 2020, for the purposes of section 42-5032.03, the department shall
separately account for revenues collected under the amusement classification
from sales directly attributable to the special sporting event held at the host
facility. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-5074, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5074.Restaurant classification
A.The restaurant classification is comprised of the
business of operating restaurants, dining cars, dining rooms, lunchrooms, lunch
stands, soda fountains, catering services or similar establishments where
articles of food or drink are sold for consumption on or off the premises.
B.The tax base for the restaurant classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business. The
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the following shall be
deducted from the tax base:
1.Sales to a person engaged in business classified
under the restaurant classification if the items sold are to be resold in the
regular course of the business.
2.Sales by a congressionally chartered veterans
organization of food or drink prepared for consumption on the premises leased,
owned or maintained by the organization.
3.Sales by churches, fraternal benefit societies
and other nonprofit organizations, as these organizations are defined in the
federal internal revenue code (26 United States Code section 501), that do not
regularly engage or continue in the restaurant business for the purpose of fundraising.
4.Sales by a nonprofit organization that is exempt
from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal
revenue code if the organization is associated with a major league baseball
team or a national touring professional golfing association and no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
5.Sales at a rodeo featuring primarily farm and
ranch animals in this state by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from
taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8)
of the internal revenue code and no part of the organization's net earnings
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
6.Sales by any nonprofit organization organized and
operated exclusively for charitable purposes and recognized by the United
States internal revenue service under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
7.Sales to qualifying hospitals as defined in
section 425001.
8.Sales to a qualifying health care organization as
defined in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by
the organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
9.Sales of food, drink and condiment for
consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or other institution under
the jurisdiction of the state department of corrections, the department of
public safety, the department of juvenile corrections or a county sheriff.
10.Sales of articles of prepared or unprepared
food, drink or condiment and accessory tangible personal property to a school
district or charter school if the articles and accessory tangible personal
property are served to persons for consumption on the premises of a public
school in the school district or charter school during school hours.
11.Prepared food, drink or condiment donated by a
restaurant to a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals
to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
12.Sales of articles of food and drink at low or
reduced prices to eligible elderly,
disabled or homeless persons or persons with a disability by a restaurant
that contracts with the department of economic security and that is approved by
the food and nutrition services of the United States department of agriculture
pursuant to the supplemental nutrition assistance program established by the
food and nutrition act of 2008 (P.L. 110-246; 122 Stat. 1651; 7 United States
Code sections 2011 through 2036a), if the purchases of the articles of food and
drink are made with the benefits issued pursuant to the supplemental nutrition
assistance program.
C.The tax imposed on the restaurant classification
pursuant to this section does not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income from tangible personal property sold to a commercial airline consisting
of food, beverages and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and
beverages, if those items are to be provided without additional charge to
passengers for consumption in flight. For the purposes of this subsection,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
D.The department shall separately account for
revenues collected under the restaurant classification for the purposes of
section 42-5029, subsection D, paragraph 4, subdivision (b).
E.For the
purposes of section 425032.01, the department shall separately account
for revenues collected under the restaurant classification from businesses
operating restaurants, dining rooms, lunchrooms, lunch stands, soda fountains,
catering services or similar establishments:
1.On the premises of a multipurpose facility that
is owned or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title 5,
chapter 8 for consumption on or off the premises.
2.At professional football contests that are held
in a stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents.
F.Beginning
January 1, 2020, for the purposes of section 42-5032.03, the department shall separately
account for revenues that are collected under the restaurant classification
from businesses operating restaurants, dining rooms, lunchrooms, lunch stands,
soda fountains, catering services or similar establishments and that are
directly attributable to the special sporting event held at the host facility.
END_STATUTE

