







REFERENCE TITLE: licensing; waiver of rights; prohibition







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2478









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

Amending sections
9834, 111604, 411030 and 483644, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to licensing decisions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-834, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-834.Prohibited acts by municipalities and employees;
enforcement; notice
A.A municipality shall not base a licensing
decision in whole or in part on a licensing requirement or condition that is
not specifically authorized by statute, rule, ordinance or code. A general
grant of authority does not constitute a basis for imposing a licensing
requirement or condition unless the authority specifically authorizes the
requirement or condition.
B.Unless specifically authorized, a municipality
shall avoid duplication of other laws that do not enhance regulatory clarity
and shall avoid dual permitting to the maximum extent practicable.
C.This section does not prohibit municipal
flexibility to issue licenses or adopt ordinances or codes.
D.A municipality shall not request or initiate
discussions with a person about waiving that person's rights.
E.A
municipality may not require a waiver of a right granted by the constitution or
laws of this state as a condition of approving a license.
E.F.This
section may be enforced in a private civil action and relief may be awarded
against a municipality.The court may award reasonable attorney
fees, damages and all fees associated with the license application to a party
that prevails in an action against a municipality for a violation of this
section. 
F.G.A
municipal employee may not intentionally or knowingly violate this
section.A violation of this section is cause for disciplinary
action or dismissal pursuant to the municipality's adopted personnel policy.
G.H.This
section does not abrogate the immunity provided by section 12820.01 or
12820.02.
H.I.A
municipality shall prominently print the provisions of subsections A, B, C, D,
E, F, and G and
H of this section on all license applications.
I.J.The licensing license application may be in either print or
electronic format. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-1604, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1604.Prohibited acts by county and employees; enforcement;
notice 
A.A county shall not base a licensing decision in
whole or in part on a licensing requirement or condition that is not
specifically authorized by statute, rule, ordinance or delegation
agreement.A general grant of authority does not constitute a basis
for imposing a licensing requirement or condition unless the authority
specifically authorizes the requirement or condition.
B.Unless specifically authorized, a county shall
avoid duplication of other laws that do not enhance regulatory clarity and
shall avoid dual permitting to the maximum extent practicable.
C.This section does not prohibit county flexibility
to issue licenses or adopt ordinances or codes.
D.A county shall not request or initiate
discussions with a person about waiving that person's rights.
E.A county
may not require a waiver of a right granted by the constitution or laws of this
state as a condition of approving a license.
E.F.This
section may be enforced in a private civil action and relief may be awarded
against a county.The court may award reasonable attorney fees,
damages and all fees associated with the license application to a party that
prevails in an action against a county for a violation of this section.
F.G.A
county employee may not intentionally or knowingly violate this
section.A violation of this section is cause for disciplinary
action or dismissal pursuant to the county's adopted personnel policy.
G.H.This
section does not abrogate the immunity provided by section 12820.01 or
12820.02. 
H.I.A
county shall prominently print the provisions of subsections A, B, C, D, E, F, and G and
H of this section on all license applications.
I.J.The licensing license application may be in either print or
electronic format.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-1030, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1030.Invalidity of rules not made according to this chapter;
prohibited agency action; prohibited acts by state employees; enforcement;
notice
A.A rule is invalid unless it is made and approved
in substantial compliance with sections 411021 through 411029 and
articles 4, 4.1 and 5 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided by law.
B.An agency shall not base a licensing decision in
whole or in part on a licensing requirement or condition that is not specifically
authorized by statute, rule or state tribal gaming compact or require a waiver of a right granted by the constitution
or laws of this state as a condition of approving a license.A
general grant of authority in statute does not constitute a basis for imposing
a licensing requirement or condition unless a rule is made pursuant to that
general grant of authority that specifically authorizes the requirement or
condition. 
C.An agency shall not:
1.Make a rule under a specific grant of rulemaking
authority that exceeds the subject matter areas listed in the specific statute
authorizing the rule.
2.Make a rule under a general grant of rulemaking
authority to supplement a more specific grant of rulemaking authority.
D.This section may be enforced in a private civil
action and relief may be awarded against the state.The court may
award reasonable attorney fees, damages and all fees associated with the
license application to a party that prevails in an action against the state for
a violation of this section.
E.A state employee may not intentionally or
knowingly violate this section.A violation of this section is cause
for disciplinary action or dismissal pursuant to the agency's adopted personnel
policy.
F.This section does not abrogate the immunity
provided by section 12820.01 or 12820.02.
G.An agency shall prominently print the provisions
of subsections B, D, E and F of this section on all license applications,
except license applications processed by the corporation commission.
H.The licensing
license application may
be in either print or electronic format. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 48-3644, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-3644.Prohibited acts by district and employees; enforcement;
notice
A.A district shall not base a licensing decision in
whole or in part on a licensing requirement or condition that is not
specifically authorized by statute, rule, regulation, ordinance, executive
order or delegation agreement.A general grant of authority does not
constitute a basis for imposing a licensing requirement or condition unless the
authority specifically authorizes the requirement or condition.
B.Unless specifically authorized, a district shall
avoid duplication of other laws or executive orders that do not enhance
regulatory clarity and shall avoid dual permitting to the maximum extent
practicable.
C.This section does not prohibit district
flexibility to issue licenses or adopt ordinances or regulations.
D.A district shall not request or initiate
discussions with a person about waiving that person's rights.
E.A
district may not require a waiver of a right granted by the constitution or
laws of this state as a condition of approving a license.
E.F.This
section may be enforced in a private civil action and relief may be awarded
against the district.The court may award reasonable attorney fees,
damages and all fees associated with the license application to a party that
prevails in an action against the district for a violation of this section.
F.G.A
district employee may not intentionally or knowingly violate this
section.A violation of this section is cause for disciplinary
action or dismissal pursuant to the district's adopted personnel policy.
G.H.This
section does not abrogate the immunity provided by section 12820.01 or
12820.02.
H.I.A
district shall prominently print the provisions of subsections A, B, C, D, E, F, and G and
H of this section on all license applications.
I.J.The licensing license application may be in either print or
electronic format. END_STATUTE

