







REFERENCE TITLE: school property; sales; leases; use







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2476









Introduced by
Representatives
  Norgaard: Ackerley, Bowers, Carter, Finchem, Livingston, Mendez, Mesnard,
  Thorpe, Senator Dial





AN ACT

repealing section
151102, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15, chapter 10, article
1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section 151102; relating to
SCHOOL finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 15-1102,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 10, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 15-1102, to read:
15-1102.Dispostion of proceeds from sale or
lease of school property; school plant monies; payment of bonded indebtedness;
definition
a.The
governing board, or the superintendent or chief administrative officer with the
approval of the governing board, may expend the proceeds from the sale or lease
of school property for the payment of any outstanding bonded indebtedness of
the school district or for the reduction of school district taxes.
B.A common
school district or a high school district that has an outstanding bonded
indebtedness of seven percent of the current year's assessed valuation or less
or a UNIFIED school district that has an OUTSTANDING bonded indebtedness of
fourteen percent of the current year's assessed valuation or less may expend
the proceeds from the sale or lease of school property as follows:
1.The total
sum of the proceeds from the sale of school property executed before July 1,
2016, for the total sum of the proceeds from the sale of property to a school
or the total sum of the proceeds from the lease of school property to persons
or entities other than schools for more than one year:
(a)may be expended for maintenance
and operation in an amount that does not exceed fifteen percent of the revenue
control limit for that year as provided in section 15947, subsection A
in any year.
(b)may be expended for capital
outlay in any amount.
2.From and
after June 30, 2016, Proceeds from the sale of school property that exceed one
hundred thousand dollars per sales transaction to persons or entities other
than schools may not be expended for maintenance and operation and may be
expended for capital outlay in any amount.
C.A common
school district or a high school district that has an outstanding bonded
indebtedness of greater than seven percent of the current year's assessed
valuation or a unified school district that has an outstanding bonded
indebtedness of greater than fourteen percent of the current year's assessed
valuation may expend the proceeds from the lease or sale of school property as
follows:
1.For The
total sum of the proceeds from the sale of school property executed before July
1, 2016, for the total sum of the proceeds from the sale of property to a
school or for the total sum of the proceeds from the lease of school property
to persons or entities other than schools for more than one year:
(a)Up to Twentyfive percent
of the sales proceeds may be expended for maintenance and operation in an
amount that does not exceed fifteen percent of the revenue control limit for
that year as provided in section 15947, subsection A in any year.
(b)The sales or lease proceeds may
be expended for capital outlay in any amount.
2.From and
after June 30, 2016, For Proceeds from the sale of school property that exceed
one hundred thousand dollars per sales transaction to persons or entities other
than schools:
(a)The sales proceeds may not be
expended for maintenance and operation.
(b)At least thirtyeight
percent of the sales proceeds shall be used for the payment of any outstanding
bonded indebtedness of the school district or for the reduction of school
district taxes.
(c)The remainder of the sales
proceeds that are not obligated pursuant to subdivision (b) of this paragraph may be expended for
capital outlay in any amount.
D.The
governing board, or the superintendent or chief administrative officer with the
approval of the governing board, shall promptly deposit monies received for and
derived from the sale or lease of school property with the county treasurer who
shall establish a school plant fund. Monies placed to the credit of the school
plant fund may be expended as provided in this section. The school plant fund
is a continuing fund that is not subject to reversion.
E.Proceeds
from sales by condemnation or sales under threat of condemnation may be
deposited with the county treasurer for deposit in the condemnation fund or the
school plant fund of the school district.The condemnation fund is a
continuing fund that is not subject to reversion, except that after ten years
any unspent monies shall be placed in the school plant fund to be used as
prescribed in this section. The governing board, or the superintendent or
chief administrative officer with the approval of the governing board, may
apply the proceeds in the condemnation fund to:
1.The
payment of any outstanding bonded indebtedness of the school district that is
payable from the levy of taxes on property within the school district.
2.Construct,
acquire, improve, repair or furnish school facilities or sites after notice and
a hearing.
F.Proceeds
from a right-of-way settlement shall be deposited with the county treasurer for
deposit in the condemnation fund of the school district. The governing board,
or the superintendent or chief administrative officer with the approval of the
governing board, shall apply those proceeds in the condemnation fund to
construct, acquire, improve, repair or furnish school facilities or sites after
notice and a hearing.
G.The
restrictions PRESCRIBED in subsections B and C of this section do not apply to
the proceeds from:
1.Leases of
school property to other schools.
2.Leases of
school property for less than one year.
3.Sales of
school property of less than one hundred thousand dollars per transaction.
H.A lease
of school property for less than one year that includes an automatic lease
renewal resulting in a total lease duration that exceeds one year is considered
a lease for more than one year for the purposes of this section.
I.For the
purposes of this section, "capital outlay" means unrestricted capital
outlay as prescribed in section 15-903, subsection C. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Retroactivity
Section 15-1102, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this
act, is effective retroactively to from and after June 30, 2016.

