







REFERENCE TITLE: hydraulic fracturing; prohibition







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2407









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Espinoza: Alston, Andrade, Fernandez, Gonzales, Hale, Larkin,
  Plumlee, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending section
49-201, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 49, CHAPTER 2, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 49-211; amending section 49-701,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to water quality control.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 49-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-201.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrator" means the administrator
of the United States environmental protection agency.
2."Aquifer" means a geologic unit that
contains sufficient saturated permeable material to yield usable quantities of
water to a well or spring.
3."Best management practices" means those
methods, measures or practices to prevent or reduce discharges and includes
structural and nonstructural controls and operation and maintenance procedures.Best
management practices may be applied before, during and after discharges to
reduce or eliminate the introduction of pollutants into receiving waters.
Economic, institutional and technical factors shall be considered in developing
best management practices.
4."CERCLA" means the comprehensive
environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980, as amended
(P.L. 96510; 94 Stat. 2767; 42 United States Code sections 9601 through
9657), commonly known as "superfund".
5."Clean closure" means implementation of
all actions specified in an aquifer protection permit, if any, as closure
requirements, as well as elimination, to the greatest degree practicable, of
any reasonable probability of further discharge from the facility and of either
exceeding aquifer water quality standards at the applicable point of compliance
or, if an aquifer water quality standard is exceeded at the time the permit is
issued, causing further degradation of the aquifer at the applicable point of
compliance as provided in section 49243, subsection B, paragraph 3.
Clean closure also means postclosure monitoring and maintenance are unnecessary
to meet the requirements in an aquifer protection permit.
6."Clean water act" means the federal
water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (P.L. 92500; 86 Stat.
816; 33 United States Code sections 1251 through 1376), as amended.
7."Closed facility" means:
(a)A facility that ceased operation before January
1, 1986, that is not, on August 13, 1986, engaged in the activity for which the
facility was designed and that was previously operated and for which there is
no intent to resume operation.
(b)A facility that has been approved as a clean
closure by the director.
(c)A facility at which any postclosure monitoring
and maintenance plan, notifications and approvals required in a permit have
been completed.
8."Concentrated animal feeding operation"
means an animal feeding operation that meets the criteria prescribed in 40 Code
of Federal Regulations part 122, appendix B for determining a concentrated
animal feeding operation for purposes of 40 Code of Federal Regulations
sections 122.23 and 122.24, appendixC.
9."Department" means the department of
environmental quality.
10."Direct reuse" means the beneficial
use of reclaimed water for specific purposes authorized pursuant to section 49203,
subsection A, paragraph 6.
11."Director" means the director of
environmental quality or the director's designee.
12."Discharge" means the direct or
indirect addition of any pollutant to the waters of the state from a facility.
For purposes of the aquifer protection permit program prescribed by article 3
of this chapter, discharge means the addition of a pollutant from a facility
either directly to an aquifer or to the land surface or the vadose zone in such
a manner that there is a reasonable probability that the pollutant will reach
an aquifer.
13."Discharge impact area" means the
potential areal extent of pollutant migration, as projected on the land
surface, as the result of a discharge from a facility.
14."Discharge limitation" means any
restriction, prohibition, limitation or criteria established by the director,
through a rule, permit or order, on quantities, rates, concentrations,
combinations, toxicity and characteristics of pollutants.
15."Environment" means navigable waters,
any other surface waters, groundwater, drinking water supply, land surface or
subsurface strata or ambient air, within or bordering on this state.
16."Existing facility" means a facility on
which construction began before August 13, 1986 and which that
is neither a new facility nor a closed facility. For the
purposes of this definition, construction on a facility has begun if the
facility owner or operator has either:
(a)Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a
continuous onsite construction program any placement, assembly or
installation of a building, structure or equipment.
(b)Entered a binding contractual obligation to
purchase a building, structure or equipment which that
is intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
time. Options to purchase or contracts which
that can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility engineering
and design studies, do not constitute a contractual obligation for purposes of
this definition.
17."Facility" means any land, building,
installation, structure, equipment, device, conveyance, area, source, activity
or practice from which there is, or with reasonable probability may be, a
discharge.
18."Gray water" means wastewater that has
been collected separately from a sewage flow and that originates from a clothes
washer or a bathroom tub, shower or sink but that does not include wastewater
from a kitchen sink, dishwasher or toilet.
19."Hazardous
substance" means:
(a)Any substance
designated pursuant to sections 311(b)(2)(A) and 307(a) of the clean water act.
(b)Any element, compound, mixture, solution or
substance designated pursuant to section 102 of CERCLA.
(c)Any hazardous waste having the characteristics
identified under or listed pursuant to section 49922.
(d)Any hazardous air pollutant listed under section
112 of the federal clean air act (42 United States Code section 7412).
(e)Any imminently hazardous chemical substance or
mixture with respect to which the administrator has taken action pursuant to
section 7 of the federal toxic substances control act (15 United States Code
section 2606).
(f)Any substance which that
the director, by rule, either designates as a hazardous substance
following the designation of the substance by the administrator under the
authority described in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this paragraph or
designates as a hazardous substance on the basis of a determination that such
substance represents an imminent and substantial endangerment to public health.
20."Hydraulic
fracturing" means the process of pumping a fluid into or under the surface
of the ground in order to create fractures in rock for the purpose of the
production or recovery of oil or natural gas.
20.21."Inert
material" means broken concrete, asphaltic pavement, manufactured asbestoscontaining
products, brick, rock, gravel, sand and soil. Inert material also includes
material that when subjected to a water leach test that is designed to approximate
natural infiltrating waters will not leach substances in concentrations that
exceed numeric aquifer water quality standards established pursuant to section
49223, including overburden and wall rock that is not acid generating,
taking into consideration acid neutralization potential, and that has not and
will not be subject to mine leaching operations.
21.22."Major
modification" means a physical change in an existing facility or a change
in its method of operation that results in a significant increase or adverse
alteration in the characteristics or volume of the pollutants discharged, or
the addition of a process or major piece of production equipment, building or
structure that is physically separated from the existing operation and that causes
a discharge, provided that:
(a)A modification to a groundwater protection
permit facility as defined in section 49241.01, subsection C that would
qualify for an areawide permit pursuant to section 49243
consisting of an activity or structure listed in section 49241,
subsection B shall not constitute a major modification solely because of that
listing.
(b)For a groundwater protection permit facility as
defined in section 49241.01, subsection C, a physical expansion that is
accomplished by lateral accretion or upward expansion within the pollutant
management area of the existing facility or group of facilities shall not
constitute a major modification if the accretion or expansion is accomplished
through sound engineering practice in a manner compatible with existing
facility design, taking into account safety, stability and risk of
environmental release. For a facility described in section 49241.01,
subsection C, paragraph 1, expansion of a facility shall conform with the terms
and conditions of the applicable permit.For a facility described in
section 49241.01, subsection C, paragraph 2, if the area of the
contemplated expansion is not identified in the notice of disposal, the owner
or operator of the facility shall submit to the director the information
required by section 49243, subsection A, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 7.
22.23."Navigable
waters" means the waters of the United States as defined by section 502(7)
of the clean water act (33 United States Code section 1362(7)).
23.24."New facility"
means a previously closed facility that resumes operation or a facility on
which construction was begun after August 13, 1986 on a site at which no other
facility is located or to totally replace the process or production equipment
that causes the discharge from an existing facility.A major
modification to an existing facility is deemed a new facility to the extent
that the criteria in section 49243, subsection B, paragraph 1 can be
practicably applied to such modification.For the purposes of this
definition, construction on a facility has begun if the facility owner or
operator has either:
(a)Begun, or caused to begin as part of a
continuous onsite construction program, any placement, assembly or
installation of a building, structure or equipment.
(b)Entered a binding contractual obligation to
purchase a building, structure or equipment which that
is intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
time. Options to purchase or contracts which
that can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility engineering
and design studies, do not constitute a contractual obligation for purposes of
this definition.
24.25."Nonpoint
source" means any conveyance which
that is not a point
source from which pollutants are or may be discharged to navigable waters.
25.26."Onsite
wastewater treatment facility" means a conventional septic tank system or
alternative system that is installed at a site to treat and dispose of
wastewater of predominantly human origin that is generated at that site.
26.27."Permit"
means a written authorization issued by the director or prescribed by this
chapter or in a rule adopted under this chapter stating the conditions and
restrictions governing a discharge or governing the construction, operation or
modification of a facility.
27.28."Person"
means an individual, employee, officer, managing body, trust, firm, joint stock
company, consortium, public or private corporation, including a government
corporation, partnership, association or state, a political subdivision of this
state, a commission, the United States government or any federal facility,
interstate body or other entity.
28.29."Point
source" means any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including, but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation or vessel or other floating craft from which pollutants are or may be
discharged to navigable waters.Point source does not include return
flows from irrigated agriculture.
29.30."Pollutant"
means fluids, contaminants, toxic wastes, toxic pollutants, dredged spoil,
solid waste, substances and chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers and
other agricultural chemicals, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage
sludge, munitions, petroleum products, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt and mining, industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes or any other
liquid, solid, gaseous or hazardous substances.
30.31."Postclosure
monitoring and maintenance" means those activities that are conducted
after closure notification and that are necessary to:
(a)Keep the facility in compliance with either the
aquifer water quality standards at the applicable point of compliance or, for
any aquifer water quality standard that is exceeded at the time the aquifer
protection permit is issued, the requirement to prevent the facility from
further degrading the aquifer at the applicable point of compliance as provided
under section 49-243, subsection B, paragraph3.
(b)Verify that the actions or controls specified as
closure requirements in an approved closure plan or strategy are routinely
inspected and maintained.
(c)Perform any remedial, mitigative or corrective
actions or controls as specified in the aquifer protection permit or perform
corrective action as necessary to comply with this paragraph and article 3 of
this chapter.
(d)Meet property use restrictions.
31.32."Practicably"
means able to be reasonably done from the standpoint of technical
practicability and, except for pollutants addressed in section 49243,
subsection I, economically achievable on an industrywide basis.
32.33."Reclaimed
water" means water that has been treated or processed by a wastewater
treatment plant or an onsite wastewater treatment facility.
33.34."Regulated
agricultural activity" means the application of nitrogen fertilizer or a
concentrated animal feeding operation.
34.35."Safe
drinking water act" means the federal safe drinking water act of 1974, as amended (P.L. 93523;
88 Stat. 1660 1661; 95190; 91 Stat.
1393).
35.36."Standards"
means water quality standards, pretreatment standards and toxicity standards
established pursuant to this chapter.
36.37."Standards
of performance" means performance standards, design standards, best
management practices, technologically based standards and other standards,
limitations or restrictions established by the director by rule or by permit
condition.
37.38."Tank"
means a stationary device, including a sump, that is constructed of concrete,
steel, plastic, fiberglass, or other nonearthen material that provides
substantial structural support, and that is designed to contain an accumulation
of solid, liquid or gaseous materials.
38.39."Toxic
pollutant" means a substance that will cause significant adverse reactions
if ingested in drinking water. Significant adverse reactions are reactions
that may indicate a tendency of a substance or mixture to cause long lasting or
irreversible damage to human health.
39.40."Trade
secret" means information to which all of the following apply:
(a)A person has taken reasonable measures to protect
from disclosure and the person intends to continue to take such measures.
(b)The information is not, and has not been,
reasonably obtainable without the person's consent by other persons, other than
governmental bodies, by use of legitimate means, other than discovery based on
a showing of special need in a judicial or quasijudicial proceeding.
(c)No statute specifically requires disclosure of
the information to the public.
(d)The person has satisfactorily shown that
disclosure of the information is likely to cause substantial harm to the
business's competitive position.
40.41."Vadose
zone" means the zone between the ground surface and any aquifer.
41.42."Waters of
the state" means all waters within the jurisdiction of this state
including all perennial or intermittent streams, lakes, ponds, impounding
reservoirs, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, aquifers, springs,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and other bodies or accumulations of
surface, underground, natural, artificial, public or private water situated
wholly or partly in or bordering on the state.
42.43."Well"
means a bored, drilled or driven shaft, pit or hole whose depth is greater than
its largest surface dimension. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 49, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 49-211, to read:
START_STATUTE49-211.Hydraulic fracturing prohibited
A person may not engage
in hydraulic fracturing in this state and may not collect, store or treat water
in this state if that water is used in, generated by or resulting from the
process of hydraulic fracturing.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
49-701, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-701.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the
context otherwise requires:
1."Administratively complete plan" means
an application for a solid waste facility plan approval that the department has
determined contains each of the components required by statute or rule but that
has not undergone technical review or public notice by the department.
2."Administrator" means the administrator
of the United States environmental protection agency.
3."Closed solid waste facility" means any
of the following:
(a)A solid waste facility that ceases storing,
treating, processing or receiving for disposal solid waste before the effective
date of design and operation rules for that type of facility adopted pursuant
to section 49761.
(b)A public solid waste landfill that meets any of
the following criteria:
(i)Ceased receiving solid waste prior to July 1,
1983.
(ii)Ceased receiving solid waste and received at
least two feet of cover material prior to January 1, 1986.
(iii)Received approval for closure from the
department.
(c)A public composting plant or a public
incinerating facility that closed in accordance with an approved plan.
4."Conditionally exempt small quantity
generator waste" means hazardous waste in quantities as defined by rules
adopted pursuant to section 49922.
5."Construction debris" means solid waste
derived from the construction, repair or remodeling of buildings or other
structures.
6."County"
means:
(a)The board of
supervisors in the context of the exercise of powers or duties.
(b)The unincorporated areas in the context of area
of jurisdiction.
7."Demolition debris" means solid waste
derived from the demolition of buildings or other structures.
8."Discharge" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 49201.
9."Existing solid waste facility" means a
solid waste facility that begins construction or is in operation on the
effective date of the design and operation rules adopted by the director
pursuant to section 49761 for that type of solid waste facility.
10."Facility plan" means any design or
operating plan for a solid waste facility or group of solid waste facilities.
11."40 C.F.R. part 257" means 40 Code of
Federal Regulations part 257 in effect on May 1, 2004.
12."40 C.F.R. part 258" means 40 Code of
Federal Regulations part 258 in effect on May 1, 2004.
13."Household hazardous waste" means
solid waste as described in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 261.4(b)(1)
as incorporated by reference in the rules adopted pursuant to chapter 5 of this
title.
14."Household waste" means any solid
waste including garbage, rubbish and sanitary waste from septic tanks that is
generated from households including single and multiple family residences,
hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds,
picnic grounds and day use recreation areas, not including construction debris,
landscaping rubble or demolition debris.
15."Inert material":
(a)Means material that satisfies all of the
following conditions:
(i)Is not flammable.
(ii)Will not decompose.
(iii)Will not leach substances in concentrations
that exceed applicable aquifer water quality standards prescribed by section 49201,paragraph 20 for inert material when
subjected to a water leach test that is designed to approximate natural
infiltrating waters.
(b)Includes concrete, asphaltic pavement, brick,
rock, gravel, sand, soil and metal, if used as reinforcement in concrete, but does
not include special waste, hazardous waste, glass or other metal.
16."Land disposal" means placement of
solid waste in or on land.
17."Landscaping rubble" means material
that is derived from landscaping or reclamation activities and that may contain
inert material and no more than ten per
cent percent by
volume of vegetative waste.
18."Management agency" means any person
responsible for the daytoday operation, maintenance and
management of a particular public facility or group of public facilities.
19."Medical waste" means any solid waste which that is generated in the diagnosis, treatment
or immunization of a human being or animal or in any research relating to that
diagnosis, treatment or immunization, or in the production or testing of biologicals,
and includes discarded drugs but does not include hazardous waste as defined in
section 49921 other than conditionally exempt small quantity generator
waste.
20."Municipal solid waste landfill" means
any solid waste landfill that accepts household waste, household hazardous
waste or conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste.
21."New solid waste facility" means a
solid waste facility that begins construction or operation after the effective
date of design and operating rules that are adopted pursuant to section 49761
for that type of solid waste facility.
22."On site" means the same or
geographically contiguous property that may be divided by public or private
rightofway if the entrance and exit between the properties are at
a crossroads intersection and access is by crossing the rightofway
and not by traveling along the rightofway. Noncontiguous
properties that are owned by the same person and connected by a rightofway
that is controlled by that person and to which the public does not have access
are deemed on site property.Noncontiguous properties that are owned
or operated by the same person regardless of rightofway control
are also deemed on site property.
23."Person" means any public or private
corporation, company, partnership, firm, association or society of persons, the
federal government and any of its departments or agencies, this state or any of
its agencies, departments, political subdivisions, counties, towns or municipal
corporations, as well as a natural person.
24."Process" or "processing"
means the reduction, separation, recovery, conversion or recycling of solid
waste.
25."Public solid waste facility" means a
transfer facility and any site owned, operated or utilized by any person for
the storage, processing, treatment or disposal of solid waste that is not
generated on site.
26."Recycling facility" means a solid
waste facility that is owned, operated or used for the storage, treatment or
processing of recyclable solid waste and that handles wastes that have a
significant adverse effect on the environment.
27."Salvaging" means the removal of solid
waste from a solid waste facility with the permission and in accordance with
rules or ordinances of the management agency for purposes of productive reuse.
28."Scavenging" means the unauthorized
removal of solid waste from a solid waste facility.
29."Solid waste facility" means a
transfer facility and any site owned, operated or utilized by any person for
the storage, processing, treatment or disposal of solid waste, conditionally
exempt small quantity generator waste or household hazardous waste but does not
include the following:
(a)A site at which less than one ton of solid waste
that is not household waste, household hazardous waste, conditionally exempt
small quantity generator waste, medical waste or special waste and that was
generated on site is stored, processed, treated or disposed in compliance with
section 49762.07, subsection F.
(b)A site at which solid waste that was generated
on site is stored for ninety days or less.
(c)A site at which nonputrescible solid waste that
was generated on site in amounts of less than one thousand kilograms per month
per type of nonputrescible solid waste is stored and contained for one hundred
eighty days or less.
(d)A site that stores, treats or processes paper,
glass, wood, cardboard, household textiles, scrap metal, plastic, vegetative
waste, aluminum, steel or other recyclable material and that is not a waste
tire facility, a transfer facility or a recycling facility.
(e)A site where sludge from a wastewater treatment
facility is applied to the land as a fertilizer or beneficial soil amendment in
accordance with sludge application requirements.
(f)A closed solid waste facility.
(g)A solid waste landfill that is performing or has
completed postclosure care before July 1, 1996 in accordance with an approved
postclosure plan.
(h)A closed solid waste landfill performing a
onetime removal of solid waste from the closed solid waste landfill, if the operator
provides a written notice that describes the removal project to the department
within thirty days after completion of the removal project.
(i)A site where solid waste generated in street
sweeping activities is stored, processed or treated prior to disposal at a
solid waste facility authorized under this chapter.
(j)A site where solid waste generated at either a
drinking water treatment facility or a wastewater treatment facility is stored,
processed, or treated on site prior to disposal at a solid waste facility
authorized under this chapter, and any discharge is regulated pursuant to
chapter 2, article 3 of this title.
(k)A closed solid waste landfill where development
activities occur on the property or where excavation or removal of solid waste
is performed for maintenance and repair provided the following conditions are
met:
(i)When the project is completed there will not be
an increase in leachate that would result in a discharge.
(ii)When the project is completed the concentration
of methane gas will not exceed twentyfive per cent percent of the lower explosive limit in onsite
structures, or the concentration of methane gas will not exceed the lower
explosive limit at the property line.
(iii)Protection has been provided to prevent remaining
waste from causing any vector, odor, litter or other environmental nuisance.
(iv)The operator provides a notice to the
department containing the information required by section 49762.07,
subsection A, paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 and a brief description of the project.
(l)Agricultural onsite disposal as provided
in section 49766.
(m)The use, storage, treatment or disposal of byproducts
of regulated agricultural activities as defined in section 49201 and
that are subject to best management practices pursuant to section 49247
or byproducts of livestock, range livestock and poultry as defined in
section 31201, pesticide containers that are regulated pursuant to title
3, chapter 2, article 6 or other agricultural crop residues.
(n)Household hazardous waste collection events held
at a temporary site for not more than six days in any calendar quarter.
(o)Wastewater treatment facilities as defined in
section 491201.
(p)An onsite single family household waste
composting facility.
(q)A site at which five hundred or fewer waste
tires are stored.
(r)A site at which mining industry offroad
waste tires are stored or are disposed of as prescribed by rules in effect on
February 1, 1996, until the director by rule determines that on-site recycling methods
exist that are technically feasible and economically practical.
(s)A site at which underground piping, conduit,
pipe covering or similar structures are abandoned in place in accordance with
applicable state and federal laws.
30."Solid waste landfill" means a
facility, area of land or excavation in which solid wastes are placed for
permanent disposal.Solid waste landfill does not include a land
application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, compost pile or waste
pile or an area containing ash from the onsite combustion of coal that
does not contain household waste, household hazardous waste or conditionally
exempt small quantity generator waste.
31."Solid waste management" means the
systematic administration of activities which
that provide for the
collection, source separation, storage, transportation, transfer, processing,
treatment or disposal of solid waste in a manner that protects public health
and safety and the environment and prevents and abates environmental nuisances.
32."Solid waste management plan" means
the plan which that is adopted pursuant to
section 49721 and which
that provides guidelines
for the collection, source separation, storage, transportation, processing,
treatment, reclamation and disposal of solid waste in a manner that protects
public health and safety and the environment and prevents and abates
environmental nuisances.
33."Storage" means the holding of solid
waste.
34."Transfer facility" means a site that
is owned, operated or used by any person for the rehandling or storage for
ninety days or less of solid waste that was generated off site for the primary
purpose of transporting that solid waste.Transfer facility includes
those facilities that include significant solid waste transfer activities that
warrant the facility's regulation as a transfer facility.
35."Treatment" means any method,
technique or process used to change the physical, chemical or biological
character of solid waste so as to render that waste safer for transport,
amenable for processing, amenable for storage or reduced in volume.
36."Vegetative waste" means waste derived
from plants, including tree limbs and branches, stumps, grass clippings and
other waste plant material. Vegetative waste does not include processed lumber,
paper, cardboard and other manufactured products that are derived from plant
material.
37."Waste pile" means any
noncontainerized accumulation of solid, nonflowing waste that is used for
treatment or storage.
38."Waste tire" does not include tires
used for agricultural purposes as bumpers on agricultural equipment or as
ballast to maintain covers at an agricultural site, or any tire disposed of
using any of the methods in section 441304, subsection D, paragraphs 1,
2, 3, 5 through 8 and 11 and means any of the following:
(a)A tire that is no longer suitable for its
original intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
(b)A tire that is removed from a motor vehicle and
is retained for further use.
(c)A tire that has been chopped or shredded.
39."Waste tire facility" means a solid
waste facility at which five thousand or more waste tires are stored outdoors
on any day. END_STATUTE

