







REFERENCE TITLE: child protection registry; prohibited
  communications







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2458









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee, Cardenas, Carter, Senator Driggs: Representatives Cobb, Olson,
  Senator Barto





AN ACT

amending title
44, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 36; relating to child
protection.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 44, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 36, to read:
CHAPTER 36
CHILD PROTECTION REGISTRY
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE44-7851.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Contact
point" means an electronic identification to which a communication may be
sent, including an e-mail address or, subject to section 44-7852, any of the
following:
(a)An instant message identity.
(b)A mobile or other telephone number.
(c)a fax number.
(d)An electronic address that is defined as a contact point by
secretary of state rule.
2."Registry"
means the child protection registry established in section 44-7852. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7852.Child protection registry; secretary of state
A.The
secretary of state shall:
1.Establish
and maintain a child protection registry to compile and secure a list of
Contact points that the secretary of state receives pursuant to this section.
The secretary of state may contract with a third party to establish the
registry.
2.Implement
the registry with respect to Instant message identities and Mobile or other telephone
numbers.
3.Promote
the registry on the secretary of state's public website.
4.Adopt
rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6 to implement and administer this chapter.
B.A person
may register a contact point with the secretary of state if any of the
following applies:
1.The
contact point belongs to a minor.
2.A minor
has access to the contact point.
3.The
contact point is used in a household in which a minor is present.
C.A school
or other institution that primarily serves minors may register its domain name
with the secretary of state.
D.A person
who desires to send a communication described in section 44-7853, subsection D
to a contact point or domain name shall:
1.Use a
mechanism established by the secretary of state.
2.Pay a fee
in an amount to be determined by the secretary of state.
E.The
secretary of state may implement a program to offer discounted compliance fees
to senders who meet enhanced security conditions that are established and
verified by the secretary of state, the third party registry provider or a
designee.
F.The
contents of the registry and any complaint filed about a sender who violates
this chapter are not subject to public disclosure. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7853.Prohibited communications; exception
A.A person
may not send, cause to be sent or conspire with a third party to send a
communication to a contact point or domain name that has been registered for
more than thirty calendar days with the secretary of state under section
44-7852 if the communication either:
1.Has the
primary purpose of advertising or promoting a product or service that a minor
is prohibited by law from purchasing.
2.Contains
or has the primary purpose of advertising or promoting material that is harmful
to minors as defined in section 13-3501.
B.The
consent of a minor is not a defense to a violation of this section.
C.An
internet service provider does not violate this section for solely transmitting
a message across the network of the internet service provider.
D.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a person may send a communication to a contact
point or domain name if, before sending the communication, the person sending
the communication receives consent from an adult who controls the contact point
or domain name. A person who proposes to send a communication under this
subsection shall:
1.Verify
the age of the adult who controls the contact point or domain name by inspecting
the adult's government-issued identification card in a face-to-face
transaction.
2.Obtain a
written record that indicates the adult's consent and that is signed by the
adult.
3.Include
in each communication both of the following:
(a)A notice that the adult may rescind the consent.
(b)Information that allows the adult to opt out of receiving
future communications.
4.Notify
the secretary of state that the person intends to send communications under
this subsection. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7854.Violation; classification
A.A violation of Section 44-7853 is:
1.A
class 2 misdemeanor for a first violation with respect to a contact point
registered with the secretary of state under section 44-7852, subsection B.
2.A
class 1 misdemeanor:
(a)For a second or
subsequent violation with respect to a contact point registered with the
secretary of state under section 44-7852, subsection B.
(b)For each violation
with respect to a domain name registered with the secretary of state under
section 44-7852, Subsection C.
3.A class 2 felony if the person either:
(a)Uses
information obtained from the secretary of state under this chapter to violate
Section 44-7853.
(b)Improperly:
(i)Obtains contact points from the registry.
(ii)Attempts to obtain contact points from the registry.
(iii)Uses or transfers to a third party to use information from
the registry to send a solicitation.
B.A
criminal conviction under this section does not relieve a person from civil
liability in an action under section 44-7855.
C.Each
communication sent in violation of section 44-7853 is a separate offense under
this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7855.Civil actions
A.For a
violation of section 44-7853, an action may be brought by either:
1.A user of
a contact point or domain name that is registered with the secretary of state
under section 44-7852.
2.A legal
guardian of a user described in paragraph 1 of this subsection.
B.In each
action under subsection A of this section:
1.A person
may recover the greater of actual damages or one thousand dollars for each
communication sent in violation of section 44-7853.
2.The
prevailing party shall be awarded costs and reasonable attorney fees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7856.Defenses
It is a defense to an
action brought under this chapter that a person reasonably relied on the
mechanism established by the secretary of state under section 44-7852 and took
reasonable measures to comply with this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Child Protection Registry
Act".

