







REFERENCE TITLE: preadoption certification investigation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2418









Introduced by
Representative
  Allen J





AN ACT

amending section
8105, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to adoption.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-105.Preadoption certification; investigation; central adoption
registry
A.Before any prospective adoptive parent may
petition to adopt a child the person shall be certified by the court as
acceptable to adopt children. A certificate shall be issued only after an
investigation conducted by an officer of the court, by an agency, or
by the division department or by a child welfare agency
licensed by the department and contracted by the department to do an
investigation and home study for foster home licensing and preadoption
certification.A written application for certification
shall be made directly to the court, to an agency, or
to the division department or to a child welfare agency
contracted by the department, in the form and content required by
the court, agency, or division department or child welfare agency.
B.The division
department is not
required to accept every application for certification. In determining which
applications to accept the division
department may give priority
to applications filed by adult residents of this state who wish to adopt a
child who has any special needs as defined in section 8141.
C.After receiving and accepting the written and
completed application of the prospective adoptive parent or parents, which
shall include a financial statement and a physician's or a registered nurse
practitioner's statement of each applicant's physical health, the division department, the agency, or
an officer of the court or the child
welfare agency contracted by the department shall conduct or
cause to be conducted an investigation of the prospective adoptive parent or
parents to determine if they are fit and proper persons to adopt children.
D.The division
department shall not
present for certification a prospective adoptive parent unless that person and
each other adult member of the household have a valid fingerprint clearance
card issued pursuant to section 41-1758.07. The prospective adoptive parent
and each other adult member of the household must certify on forms that are
provided by the division department and that are
notarized whether that person is awaiting trial on or has ever been convicted
of any of the criminal offenses listed in section 411758.07, subsections
B and C in this state or similar offenses in another state or jurisdiction.
E.An officer of the court may obtain a state and
federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law
92544. The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint
data with the federal bureau of investigation.
F.This investigation and report to the court shall
consider all relevant and material facts dealing with the prospective adoptive
parents' fitness to adopt children and shall include:
1.A complete social history.
2.The financial condition of the applicant.
3.The moral fitness of the applicant.
4.The religious background of the applicant.
5.The physical and mental health condition of the
applicants.
6.Any court action for or adjudication of child
abuse, abandonment of children, dependency or termination of parentchild
relationship in which the applicant had control, care or custody of the child
who was the subject of the action.
7.Whether the person or persons wish to be placed
on the central registry established in subsection M of this section.
8.All other facts bearing on the issue of the
fitness of the prospective adoptive parents that the court, agency or division
may deem relevant.
G.The investigator shall not reveal to the
prospective adoptive parents the identity of a child or the child's parent or
parents and shall not reveal to the child or the child's parent or parents the
identity of the prospective adoptive parents if these facts are not already
known.
H.Within ninety days after the original application
prescribed by subsection A of this section has been accepted, the division or department, the agency or the child welfare agency contracted by the department
or a person or agency designated by the court to conduct an investigation shall
present to the juvenile court the written report required by subsection F of
this section, which shall include a definite recommendation for certifying the
applicant as being acceptable or nonacceptable to adopt children and the
reasons for the recommendation.
I.Within sixty days after receiving the
investigation report required by subsections F and H of this section, the court
shall certify the applicant as being acceptable or nonacceptable to adopt
children based on the investigation report and recommendations of the report.
A certification remains in effect for eighteen months from the date of its
issuance and may be extended for additional one year periods if after review
the court finds that there have been no material changes in circumstances that
would adversely affect the acceptability of the applicant to adopt.
J.The court may require additional investigation if
it finds that additional information is necessary on which to make an
appropriate decision regarding certification.
K.Any applicant who has been certified as
nonacceptable may petition the court to review such that
certification.Notice shall be given to all interested
parties and the matter shall be heard by the court, which may affirm or reverse
the certification.
L.If the applicant is certified as nonacceptable,
the applicant may not reapply for certification to the court, to any agency, or to the division department
or to a child welfare agency contracted by the department for one
year.
M.The division
department shall maintain
a central adoption registry that includes the names of all prospective adoptive
parents currently certified by the court as acceptable to adopt children,
except those who request that their names not be included, the names of all
children who are under the jurisdiction of the division and who are currently
available for adoption, the names of any other children who are currently
available for adoption and whose names are voluntarily entered in the registry
by any agency, parent or other person that has the right to give consent to the
child's adoption, and other information as the division may elect to include in
aid of adoptive placements. Access to information in the registry shall be
made available on request to any agency under assurances as the division may
require that the information sought is in furtherance of adoptive placements
and that confidentiality of the information is preserved.
N.This section does not apply if:
1.The prospective adoptive parent is the spouse of
the birth or legal parent of the child to be adopted or is an uncle, aunt,
adult sibling, grandparent or greatgrandparent of the child of the
whole or halfblood or by marriage or adoption.
2.The birth or legal parent is deceased but at the
time of death the parent had legal and physical custody of the child to be
adopted and the child had resided primarily with the spouse of the birth or
legal parent during the twentyfour months before the death of the
parent.
3.The grandparent, greatgrandparent, aunt,
adult sibling or uncle is deceased but at the time of death that person had
legal and physical custody of the child to be adopted and the child had resided
primarily with the spouse of the grandparent, greatgrandparent, aunt,
adult sibling or uncle during the twentyfour months before the death of
the grandparent, greatgrandparent, aunt, adult sibling or uncle.
O.If the applicant has adopted a child within three
years preceding the current application and is applying to adopt another child
or is a foster parent who is licensed by this state, the division, or agency or child welfare agency contracted by the department or a
person designated by the court to conduct an investigation shall only provide
an update report on any changes in circumstances that have occurred since the
previous certification or licensing report. If the applicant has adopted a
child more than three years before the current application and is applying to
adopt another child, the division,
or agency or child welfare agency contracted by the department
or a person designated by the court to conduct an investigation may provide an
updated report on any changes in circumstances that have occurred since the
previous certification or licensing report. The court shall certify the
applicant as acceptable to adopt unless there are changes in circumstances that
adversely affect the applicant's parenting ability. In making this
determination, the court shall consider information from the prior
certification or licensing report. END_STATUTE

