







REFERENCE TITLE: budget stabilization fund; deposits







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2578









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mesnard, Leach, Weninger: Olson





AN ACT

amending section
35-144, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to state fiscal procedures.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 35-144, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-144.Budget stabilization fund; definitions
A.The budget stabilization fund is established
consisting of monies transferred from the state general fund pursuant to
subsection B of this section.The state treasurer shall administer
the fund and invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by sections 35313
and 35314.02, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the
fund. Except as provided by this section:
1.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to the reversion of monies to the state
general fund.
2.The monies in the fund are separate monies to be
used only for the purposes of the fund.
B.In a calendar year in which the annual growth
rate exceeds the trend growth rate, the excess growth when multiplied by total
general fund revenue of the fiscal year ending in the calendar year determines
the amount to be appropriated by the legislature to the budget stabilization
fund in the fiscal year in which the calendar year ends.
C.In a calendar year in which the annual growth
rate is both less than two per cent
percent and less than the
trend growth rate, the difference between the annual growth rate and the trend
growth rate when multiplied by the total general fund revenue of the fiscal
year ending in the calendar year determines the amount to be transferred by the
legislature from the budget stabilization fund to the state general fund at the
end of the fiscal year in which the calendar year ends.The transfer
calculated pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed the available balance
in the fund, nor shall the legislature transfer an amount which exceeds the
amount sufficient to balance the general fund budget.
D.The legislature shall pass a bill which contains
the emergency clause if the legislature either:
1.Reduces the amount for appropriation to the
budget stabilization fund under subsection B of this section.
2.Increases the amount for transfer to the state
general fund under subsection C of this section.
E.The annual budget recommendations of the governor
and the joint legislative budget committee shall include estimates of
appropriations or transfers required under subsection B or C of this section.
F.A final determination of the amount to be
appropriated to or transferred from the budget stabilization fund shall be made
using personal income and price deflator estimates as reported in the second
calendar quarter for the preceding calendar year. The economic estimates commission
shall determine the annual growth rate, the trend growth rate and the required
appropriation to or transfer from the budget stabilization fund at its first
meeting following the second calendar quarter report of the United States
department of commerce, but not later than June 1.The commission
shall certify and report its findings to the governor, the state treasurer, the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the
joint legislative budget committee.
G.The appropriation calculated pursuant to
subsection B of this section may be included in the general appropriation bill
for that fiscal year.Any additional appropriation calculated
pursuant to subsection F of this section shall be made by separate act.
H.At the end of a fiscal year, the budget
stabilization fund balance shall not exceed 5.634 per cent for fiscal year 19971998, 6.333 per
cent for fiscal year 19981999 and seven per cent for fiscal year 19992000
and each subsequent fiscal year ten percent
of general fund revenue for each
the fiscal
year.Any surplus monies above the allowable percentages ten percent
shall be transferred by the state treasurer to the state general fund.
I.The state treasurer may temporarily divest monies
in the budget stabilization fund to avoid a negative cash balance in operating
monies.The amount divested shall not exceed the amount required to
meet immediate cash needs.The state treasurer may divest monies in
the budget stabilization fund only when the general fund has a negative cash
balance.
J.In
For the purposes of this
section:
1."Adjusted personal income" means
personal income minus transfer payments, as reported by the United States
department of commerce, bureau of economic analysis, or its successor agency.
2."Annual growth rate" means the
percentage change in real adjusted personal income in the calendar year ending
during a fiscal year as compared to real adjusted personal income for the
preceding calendar year.The annual growth rate shall be rounded to
the nearest onehundredth of one per
cent percent.
3."GDP price deflator" means the gross
domestic product price deflator reported by the United States department of
commerce, bureau of economic analysis, or its successor agency.
4."Personal income" means the total
personal income of all persons in this state reported by the United States
department of commerce, bureau of economic analysis, or its successor agency.
5."Real adjusted personal income" means
an amount which is determined by dividing adjusted personal income by the GDP
price deflator and multiplying the result by one hundred.
6."Transfer payments" means that portion
of personal income which represents a government expenditure for which no
service is rendered or product is delivered, as determined by the United States
department of commerce, bureau of economic analysis, or its successor agency.
7."Trend growth rate" means the average
annual growth rate for the most recent seven calendar years, rounded to the
nearest onehundredth of one per cent
percent. END_STATUTE

