







REFERENCE TITLE: transportation board;
  tribal infrastructure; recommendations







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2589









Introduced by
Representatives
  Hale, Benally, Mach, Rios, Saldate: Alston, Espinoza, Wheeler





AN ACT

amending section
28-304, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 28, chapter 2, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 28-308; relating to the department
of transportation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-304, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-304.Powers and duties of the board; transportation facilities
A.The board shall:
1.Develop and adopt a statewide transportation
policy statement. The policy statement shall be adopted as described in
section 28306.
2.Adopt a longrange statewide transportation
plan. The plan shall be adopted as described in section 28307.
3.Adopt uniform transportation planning practices
and performance based planning processes for use by the department. The
practices and processes shall be developed as described in sections 28502
and 28503.
4.Adopt transportation system performance measures
and factors and data collection standards to be used by the department. The
performance measures, factors and standards shall be developed as described in
sections 28504 and 28505.
B.With respect to highways, the board shall:
1.Establish a complete system of state highway
routes.
2.Determine which state highway routes or portions
of the routes are accepted into the state highway system and which state
highway routes to improve.
3.Establish, open, relocate or alter a portion of a
state route or state highway.
4.Vacate or abandon a portion of a state route or
state highway as prescribed in section 287209.
5.Sell board funding obligations to the state
treasurer as provided in section 287678.
C.The board shall:
1.Establish policies to guide the development or
modification of the five year transportation facilities construction program
that are consistent with the principles of performance based planning developed
pursuant to article 7 of this chapter. The percentage of department
discretionary monies allocated to the region in the regional transportation
plan approved pursuant to chapter 17, article 1 of this title shall not
increase or decrease unless the board, in cooperation with the regional planning
agency, agrees to change the percentage of the discretionary monies.
2.Award all construction contracts for
transportation facilities.
3.Monitor the status of these construction
projects.
D.Consistent with the board's responsibilities, the
board shall:
1.Consider the citizens transportation oversight
committee's recommendations on the five year construction program for the
regional transportation plan pursuant to chapter 17 of this title.
2.Respond to any complaint and approve, disapprove
or modify recommendations regarding a complaint forwarded to it by the citizens
transportation oversight committee within ninety days after the citizens
transportation oversight committee forwards a complaint to the board.
3.Consider
the tribal infrastructure board's recommendations regarding funding priority
projects on tribal lands.
E.The board shall determine priority program
planning with respect to transportation facilities using the performance based
methods developed pursuant to article 7 of this chapter.
F.With respect to transportation facilities other
than highways, the board shall establish, open, relocate, alter, vacate or
abandon all or portions of the facilities.
G.With respect to aeronautics, the board shall
perform the functions prescribed in chapter 25 of this title.
H.The board shall not spend any monies, adopt any
rules or implement any policies or programs to convert signs to the metric
system or to require the use of the metric system with respect to designing or
preparing plans, specifications, estimates or other documents for any highway
project before the conversion or use is required by federal law, except that
the board may:
1.Spend monies and require the use of the metric
system with respect to designing or preparing plans, specifications, estimates
or other documents for a highway project that is awarded before October 1, 1997
and that is exclusively metric from its inception.
2.Prepare for conversion to and use of the metric
system not more than six months before the conversion or use is required by
federal law. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 28, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 28-308, to read:
START_STATUTE28-308.Tribal infrastructure board; membership; duties; report;
board termination
A.The
tribal infrastructure board is established in the department and consists of
the following members:
1.One
representative from the arizona commission of Indian affairs.
2.One
representative from the Navajo nation.
3.Four
representatives from the intertribal council of arizona.
B.The
tribal infrastructure board shall study the infrastructure needs of the tribes
in this state and shall make recommendations to the state transportation board
as to which projects on tribal lands should receive priority funding.
C.The
governor shall appoint members of the board for terms of six years to expire on
January 31 of the appropriate year.
D.board members
are eligible to receive compensation pursuant to section 38-611.
E.The
tribal infrastructure board shall annually submit a report of its findings and
recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of
the house of representatives, the chairperson of the senate transportation
committee, or its successor committee, and the chairperson of the House of
Representatives transportation and infrastructure committee, or its successor
committee, and provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
f.the
tribal infrastructure board established by this section ends on july 1, 2024
pursuant to section 413103. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Initial terms of members of tribal infrastructure board
A.Notwithstanding section 28-308, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, the initial terms of members of the tribal
infrastructure board are:
1.Two terms ending January 31, 2020.
2.Two terms ending January 31, 2021.
3.Two terms ending January 31, 2022.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.

