







REFERENCE TITLE: judgment liens; recorded information
  statement







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2555









Introduced by
Representative
  Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
33-961 and 33-967, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to judgment liens on real
property.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-961, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-961.Filing judgments for payment of money; certified copy of
judgment; recording copy to perfect lien against real property; information
statement
A.A certified copy of the judgment of any court in
this state may be filed and recorded in the office of the county recorder in
each county where the judgment creditor desires the judgment to become a lien
on the real property of the judgment debtor.On recording in compliance with both the requirements of
this section and the requirements of section 33-967 regarding an information
statement, the judgment becomes a lien on the real property of
the judgment debtor, including any part of the real property of the judgment
debtor as otherwise provided by law. For
any failure to comply with this section and section 33-967, the judgment does
not become a lien.The certified copy of the judgment
shall set forth the:
1.Title of the court and the action and number of
the action.
2.Date of entry of the judgment and the docket
record for the judgment.
3.Names of the judgment debtor and judgment
creditor.
4.Amount of the judgment.
5.Attorney of record for the judgment creditor.
B.The clerk shall furnish a certified copy of any
judgment of that court on request and payment of the fee prescribed by law.
C.A judgment or decree or any renewal that requires
payment of money shall also be accompanied by an information statement as
prescribed by section 33967. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-967, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-967.Money judgment; information statement; amendment to
recorded judgment
A.In addition to the requirements prescribed by
section 33961, any judgment or decree or any renewal that requires the
payment of money andthat is recorded on or after January 1, 1997, shall be attached to not become a lien on real property until a
separate information statement of the
judgment creditor that contains is attached to the JUDGMENT being recorded.The
separate information statement shall contain at a minimum all of
the following information:
1.The correct name and last known address of each
judgment debtor and the address at which each judgment debtor received the
summons by personal service or by mail.
2.The name and address of the judgment creditor.
3.The amount of the judgment or decree as entered
or as most recently renewed.
4.If the judgment debtor is a natural person, the
judgment debtor's social
security number, date of birth and driver license number.
5.Whether a stay of enforcement has been ordered by
the court and the date the stay expires.
B.Except as provided in this subsection, the
separate statement shall contain the information prescribed by subsection A of
this section if the information is known to the judgment creditor or available
to the judgment creditor from its records, its attorney's records or the court
records inthe action in which the judgment was entered.If any
of the required information is not known, the judgment creditor shall so
state.The judgment debtor's social security number shall be
included in the separate statement only if it has been provided voluntarily to
the judgment creditor by the judgment debtor.
C.A judgment or decree or any renewal that requires
the payment of money, that is recorded on or after January 1, 1997 and that is
not accompanied by the separate statement as prescribed by subsection A of this
section may be amended by recording
does not become a lien on real property
until the judgment creditor records a document entitled
"amendment to recorded judgment" that contains a separate statement that is in
compliance with subsection A of this section.The amendment to
recorded judgment shall state the date of recording and the indexing or
document number of the official records of the county recorder for the original
recorded judgment or decree and any renewals.
D.A judgment
or decree or any renewal that requires the payment of money recorded on or
after January 1, 1997, has as its priority the date of compliance with
subsection A of this section.
E.D.Recording an
amendment to recorded judgment does not affect the computation of time
prescribed by section 33964. END_STATUTE

