







REFERENCE TITLE: unlawful practices; auto glass repair







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2500









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston, Coleman, Leach, Lovas, Senators Meza, Miranda: Representatives
  Allen J, Borrelli, Boyer, Campbell, Fann, Fernandez, Finchem, Larkin, McCune
  Davis, Mesnard, Mitchell, Norgaard, Otondo, Petersen, Thorpe, Weninger,
  Senator Contreras





AN ACT

Amending section
20463.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to auto glass repair
Unlawful practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-463.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-463.01.Unlawful practices; auto glass repair; policyholders;
insurers
A.It is an unlawful practice for a person who sells
or repairs auto glass, an auto glass
repair or replacement facility or any agent, contractor, vendor, representative
or anyone acting on behalf of the person or facility to
knowingly:
1.Submit a false claim to an insurer for auto glass
repair or replacement or for related services:
(a)If the services were not provided.
(b)Showing work performed in a geographical area
that in fact was not the location where the services were provided and that
results in a higher payment than would otherwise be paid to the person by the
policyholder's insurer.
(c)Not authorized in writing by the owner or lessee
of the vehicle.
(d)Showing work performed on a date other than the
date the work was actually performed and resulting in a change of insurance
coverage status.
2.Advise a policyholder to falsify the date of
damage to the auto glass that results in a change of insurance coverage for
repair or replacement of the auto glass.
3.Falsely sign on behalf of a policyholder or
another person a work order, insurance assignment form or other related form in
order to submit a claim to an insurer for auto glass repair or replacement or
for related services.
4.Misrepresent to a policyholder or other person:
(a)The price of the proposed repairs or replacement
being billed to the policyholder's insurer.
(b)That the insurer has approved the repairs or
replacement unless the auto glass repair or and replacement facility has
verified coverage or obtained authorization directly from the insurance company
or any other third party administrator contracted with the insurance company
and the evidence has been confirmed by fax, email or other written and
recorded communication.
5.Represent to a policyholder or other person what auto glass coverage is available under
the insurance policy or that the repair or replacement will be
paid for entirely by the policyholder's insurer and at no cost to the
policyholder unless the insurance coverage has been verified by a person who is
employed by or is a producer contracted with the policyholder's insurer or is a
third party administrator contracted with the insurer.
6.Add to the damage of auto glass before repair in
order to increase the scope of repair or replacement or encourage a
policyholder or other person to add to the damage of auto glass before repair.
7.Perform work clearly and substantially beyond the
level of work necessary to repair or replace the auto glass to put the vehicle
back into a safe predamaged condition in accordance with accepted or
approved reasonable and customary glass repair or replacement techniques.
8.Threaten,
coerce or intimidate an insured for the purpose of inducing the insured to file
a claim for auto glass repair or replacement.
9.Induce an
insured to file an auto glass repair or replacement claim if the damage to the
auto glass is insufficient to warrant auto glass repair or replacement.
10.Waive or
offer to waive the insured's deductible or offer a rebate, gift, gift card,
cash or coupon or anything of value to any person in exchange for either a
referral of an insured to the auto glass repair facility in connection with an
auto glass repair or replacement claim under an insurance policy or to induce
the insured to file an auto glass repair or replacement claim under an
insurance policy.
11.Represent
verbally, electronically or in any other way, including an advertisement or
website or any marketing materials, that a claim for a windshield repair or
replacement under an insurance policy is free.
12.Perform
auto glass repair or replacement services in this state without obtaining a
transaction privilege tax license number issued by the department of revenue
pursuant to section 42-5005.
13.If the
person repairing or replacing the auto glass does not accept the insurer's
rate, perform work without providing a written estimate to the insured before
the work begins that includes all of the following:
(a)A statement whether the person
repairing or replacing the auto glass agrees to accept the insurer's rate for
parts, kits and labor.
(b)The actual rate that will be
charged for that work and the DIFFERENCE BETWEEN that rate and the insurer's
rate.
(c)A statement that the insured may
be financially responsible to pay the difference between the actual rate that
will be charged for that work and the insurer's rate.
(d)The signature of the insured.
(e)The business's transaction
privilege tax license number issued by the department of revenue pursuant to
section 42-5005.
14.Perform
auto glass repair or replacement services under an insurance policy without
first obtaining the insured's and insurer's approval for the specific work to
be performed.
15.Transpose
or duplicate, either electronically or in any other form, an insured's
signature onto a document that is required to authorize the repair or
replacement of auto glass. For the purposes of this paragraph, duplicate does
not include making copies of a document for record retention purposes.
16.Bill the
insurer for more than the repair or replacement cost agreed on with the
insured, a thirdparty administrator of the insurer or an agent
representing the insurer for the written estimate.
B.If the
person repairing or replacing the auto glass fails to provide the statement
required in subsection A, paragraph 13, subdivision (c) of this section in writing to the insured,
neither the insured or the insurer is responsible for the payment of any
amounts in excess of the repair or replacement estimate not expressly
authorized by the insured or insurer.
B.C.It is unlawful
for a person who sells or repairs auto glass to intentionally misrepresent the
relationship of the glass repair facility to the policyholder's
insurer.For the purposes of determining whether a person intended
the misrepresentation, it may be presumed that the person intended the
misrepresentation if the person was engaged in a regular and consistent pattern
of misrepresentation.
D.It is
unlawful for a person who sells or repairs and replaces auto glass to fail to
make the vehicle available for inspection at the request of the insurer before
performing auto glass repair and replacement services on an insured vehicle.
C.E.A
violation of this section is subject to enforcement under this article.
D.F.For
the purposes of determining whether a defendant knew of any particular element
of the prohibited activity, it may be presumed that the person had knowledge if
the person was engaged in a regular and consistent pattern of the prohibited
activity. END_STATUTE

