







REFERENCE TITLE: indoor tanning; minors; restricted use







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2516









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cobb, Carter, Meyer: Friese





AN ACT

amending title
36, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 15; relating to
indoor tanning.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, chapter 6, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 15, to read:
ARTICLE 15.INDOOR TANNING
START_STATUTE36799.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Tanning
device":
(a)Means any equipment that emits
radiation used for tanning of the skin, including a sunlamp, tanning booth or
tanning bed that emits ultraviolet radiation, and any accompanying equipment,
including protective eyewear, timers and handrails.
(b)Does not include a phototherapy
device used in the treatment of disease or injury under the direct or indirect
supervision of a physician who is licensed in this state.
2."Tanning
facility" means any place where a tanning device is used.
3."Ultraviolet
radiation" means electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between two
hundred and four hundred nanometers. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36799.01.Use of tanning facilities; restricted
use for minors; signage; use of device in private residence
A.A person
who uses the services of a tanning facility shall present photo identification
issued by the United States government or a state or tribal government to prove
that the person is at least eighteen years of age.
B.An
operator or employee of a tanning facility may not allow a person who is under
eighteen years of age to use a tanning device.
C.A tanning
facility shall post in a conspicuous place a sign stating that it is unlawful
for a tanning facility operator or employee to allow a person who is under
eighteen years of age to use any tanning device.
D.This
article does not prevent or restrict an individual from using a tanning device
for personal use in the individual's private residence. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36799.02.Recordkeeping
A tanning facility
shall maintain a record of each customer who uses a tanning device for at least
two years after the date of the customer's last use of the tanning device. The
record shall include:
1.The name
and age of the customer.
2.The date
and time of the customer's use of the tanning device.
3.The
length of time the customer used the tanning device.
4.If known,
any injury or illness that results from the customer's use of the tanning
device. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36799.03.Advertising and promotional materials
A tanning facility may
not advertise or distribute promotional materials that claim that using a
tanning device is safe or free from risk or that the use of a tanning device
will result in a medical or health benefit.
Sec.2.Short title
This act shall be known as the "Skin Cancer Preventive Act
of 2016".

