







REFERENCE TITLE: gold bonds; study committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2541









Introduced by
Representative
  Finchem





AN ACT

establishing a
joint study committee on gold bonds.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Joint study committee on gold bonds; membership; duties;
report; delayed repeal
A.The joint study committee on gold bonds is established
consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who represent different political parties. The
president of the senate shall designate one of these members to serve as
cochairperson of the committee.
2.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who represent
different political parties. The speaker of the house of representatives shall
designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
3.Two members of the public who are appointed by
the governor.
4.One member who represents credit unions and who
is appointed by the president of the senate.
5.One member who represents banks and who is
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
6.Two members who each represent a different native
American tribe in this state, one of whom is appointed by the president of the
senate and one of whom is appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives.
7.The state treasurer or the state treasurer's
designee.
B.The committee shall study the use of gold bonds
as hard assetbacked instruments to finance projects in this state,
including public works, infrastructure and other public, private and joint
public and private projects.
C.The committee shall submit a report regarding the
committee's findings and recommendations on or before December 31, 2016 to the
governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives and provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
D.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2017.

