







REFERENCE TITLE: public assistance; limitations; benefit
  card 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2596









Introduced by
Representative
  Olson





AN ACT

Amending title
46, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding sections 46219
and 46220; Amending section 46297, Arizona Revised Statutes;
Amending title 46, chapter 2, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
sections 46-297.01 and 46297.02; amending section 46-300, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to public benefits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
46, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
sections 46219 and 46220, to read:
START_STATUTE46-219.Supplemental nutrition assistance program; limitations
The department may not apply for, accept or renew any waiver of the
requirements established pursuant to 7 united states code section 2015(o). The department shall administer
the supplemental nutrition assistance program within the following limitations:
1.Categorical eligibility pursuant to 7 United States
Code section 2014(a)
and any regulations adopted under that section may not be granted for any
noncash, inkind or other benefit unless expressly required by federal
law.
2.The gross income standards of the supplemental
nutrition assistance program may not exceed the standards specified in 7 United
States Code section 2014(c)
unless expressly required by federal law.
3.The financial resource limit standards of the
supplemental nutrition assistance program may not exceed the standards
specified in 7 United States Code section 2014(g)(1) unless expressly required by federal law.
4.Categorical eligibility exempting households from the
gross income standards requirements or the resource limits specified in this
section may not be granted for any noncash, inkind or other benefit
unless expressly required by federal law. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-220.Supplemental nutrition assistance program;
disqualification period
The department shall set disqualification periods for all
instances of noncompliance with any supplemental nutrition assistance program
requirement, unless expressly prohibited by federal law, including:
1.A threemonth, fullhousehold
disqualification period for the first instance of noncompliance, unless
expressly prohibited by federal law.
2.A sixmonth, fullhousehold
disqualification period for the second instance of noncompliance, unless
expressly prohibited by federal law.
3.A permanent disqualification period for the
third instance of noncompliance, unless expressly prohibited by federal law.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 46-297, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-297.Electronic benefit transfers; prohibitions; penalties;
definitions
A.A head of household who receives cash assistance
pursuant to this section article, or on behalf of
another person, and any person authorized by the head of household shall not
conduct an electronic benefit transfer card
transaction at any of the following:
1.A liquor store as defined in this section.
2.A commercial horse racing or dog racing facility
as defined in section 5101.
3.A casino, gambling casino or gaming establishment
or a gaming facility located on Indian lands pursuant to section 5601.02.
4.An adult oriented entertainment establishment.
5.A jewelry
store.
6.A tattoo
parlor.
7.A massage
parlor.
8.A body
piercing parlor.
9.A spa and
nail salon.
10.A
lingerie shop.
11.A
tobacco paraphernalia or vapor cigarette store.
12.A
psychic and fortune telling business.
13.A bail
bond office.
14.A movie
theater.
15.A public
swimming pool.
16.A cruise
ship.
17.A theme
park.
B.In addition to the restrictions prescribed
in subsection A of this section, a head of household who receives cash
assistance pursuant to this article, or on behalf of another person, and any
person authorized by the head of household shall not use an electronic benefit
transfer card for any of the following:
1.the
purchase of cigarettes or any other tobacco products.
2.Bail.
3.Travel
services provided by a travel agent.
4.Tattoos.
5.The
purchase of lottery tickets.
6.The
purchase of sexuallyoriented adult materials.
7.The purchase
of tickets for a concert, sporting event or other entertainment event.
B.C.It is
unlawful for an adult oriented entertainment establishment to operate on the
licensed or permitted premises an automatic teller machine or a pointofsale
terminal that accepts electronic benefit transfer cards issued under this title
or that processes electronic benefit transfer
card transactions.A violation of this subsection is a permit or
license violation.A municipality that licenses or regulates adult
oriented entertainment establishments shall do all of the following:
1.Ensure that on or before February 1, 2014 all
adult oriented entertainment establishments in the municipality's jurisdiction
disable the ability of automatic teller machines and pointofsale
terminals operated on the business's premises to accept the electronic benefit
transfer card or process an electronic benefit transfer card transaction.
2.Enforce the continued prohibition on the use of
the electronic benefit transfer card.
3.Enact ordinances necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
C.D.The
department shall notify electronic benefit transfer card recipients of the
restrictions prescribed in subsection subsections A and B of this section. A recipient is subject to the following for Any violation
of subsection A or B of this section:
1.For an initial violation, a written warning.
2.For a second violation, A threemonth,
fullhousehold disqualification period, unless expressly prohibited by
federal law.
3.for a
third violation, a permanent disqualification period, unless expressly
prohibited by federal law.
D.E.An adult oriented
entertainment establishment that violates this section is may
be subject to licensing or permit action.
E.F.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Adult oriented entertainment
establishment" means an entertainment business at which performers disrobe
or perform in an unclothed state.
2.Casino, gambling casino and gaming establishment
do not include either of the following:
(a)A grocery store that sells groceries, including
staple foods, and that is located in the same building or complex as a casino,
gambling casino or gaming establishment.
(b)Any other business that offers gambling or
gaming activities incidental to the principal purpose of the business.
3."Electronic benefit transfer card
transaction" means the use of a credit or debit card service, automated
teller machine or pointofsale terminal or access to an online
system for the withdrawal of cash assistance provided pursuant to this article
or for the processing of a payment for merchandise or a service from cash
assistance provided pursuant to this article.
4."Liquor" means the following substances
as defined in section 4101:
(a)Beer.
(b)Wine.
(c)Distilled spirits.
(d)Spirituous liquor.
5."Liquor store" means:
(a)A retail establishment that exclusively or
primarily sells liquor, but does not include a grocery store that sells both
liquor and groceries, including staple foods.
(b)An on-sale retailer as defined in section 4101
if the on-sale retailer sells liquor in the original container for consumption
off premises.
6."Staple food" means food in any of the
following categories except accessory food items such as coffee, tea, cocoa,
carbonated and uncarbonated drinks, candy, condiments and spices:
(a)Meat, poultry or fish.
(b)Bread or cereals.
(c)Vegetables or
fruits.
(d)Dairy products. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 46,
chapter 2, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections
46-297.01 and 46297.02, to read:
START_STATUTE46-297.01.Electronic benefit transfer card; photograph; loss; number
of users
A.Each electronic benefit transfer card that is issued
by the department shall have a color photograph of the recipient and the
recipient's name on the card, unless the recipient declines to have the
photograph included. If a recipient is a minor or otherwise incapacitated
person, the recipient's parent or legal guardian may have that person's
photograph placed on the card. The department may enter into a memorandum of
understanding with otherstate agencies, including the motor vehicle
division, to share photographs when available.
B.The department
shall send each recipient who requests three replacement cards within a twelvemonth
period a letter informing the recipient that another request will require
participation in a face-to-face interview with a fraud investigator and
eligibility expert. If
a thirdparty vendor is administering replacement cards directly to
recipients, the vendor shall notify the department after a recipient requests a
third replacement card in a twelvemonth period and makes any subsequent
request thereafter.
C.After a recipient's request for a fourth replacement
card within any twelvemonth period, and any subsequent request
thereafter, the department shall schedule an interview with a fraud
investigator and eligibility expert before issuing another new card. If a
recipient fails to appear at the scheduled interview, the department shall
terminate the recipient's benefits within ten days after the scheduled
interview, unless expressly prohibited by federal law.
D.The department shall limit the number of authorized
representatives on any electronic benefit transfer card to not more than four
individuals at any given time. The department shall compile the list of
authorized users at the time of application and update the list during every
recertification. Recipients may add or change authorized representatives by
filing a written request.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-297.02.Electronic benefit transfer card; spending report
A.The department
shall post on the department's website and make available on an annual basis to
the joint legislative budget committee, the speaker of the house of
representatives, the minority leader in the house of representatives, the
president of the senate and the minority leader in the senate a spending report
of the supplemental nutrition assistance program and temporary assistance to
needy families benefit. The spending report shall include all of the
following:
1.The
dollar amount and number of transactions of supplemental nutrition assistance
program benefits that are accessed or spent outside this state, disaggregated
by state.
2.The
dollar amount and number of transactions of temporary assistance to needy
families benefits that are accessed or spent outside this state, disaggregated
by state.
3.The
dollar amount, number of transactions and times of transactions of supplemental
nutrition assistance program benefits that are accessed or spent in this state,
disaggregated by retailer, institution or location.
4.The
dollar amount, number of transactions and times of transactions of temporary
assistance to needy families benefits that are accessed or spent in this state,
disaggregated by retailer, institution or location.
B.The
spending report shall be deidentified to prevent identification of
individual recipients.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 46-300, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-300.Sanctions
A.The department shall impose a series of graduated
sanctions as described in subsection C of this section for any noncompliance
with:
1.The child
support enforcement efforts required by section 46292, subsection D
unless good cause is established as provided in section 46292,
subsections F and G.
2.1.The
work activities requirements described in section 46299, unless good
cause is established as provided in section 46299, subsection H and department rules.A recipient who does
not comply with the work activities requirements shall demonstrate compliance
with the work activities requirements in order to continue benefit eligibility
and to avoid sanctions.
3.2.The
school enrollment and attendance requirements of section 46292,
subsection S.
4.3.The
immunization requirements of section 46292, subsection T.
B.Noncompliance with one or more of the
requirements listed in subsection A of this section during any calendar month
is deemed to be a month of noncompliance and shall result in the sanctions
prescribed in subsection C of this section.The department shall
impose these graduated sanctions even if the instances of noncompliance do not
occur in consecutive months.
C.The department shall impose the following sanctions:
1.For the first instance of noncompliance, the
department shall reduce the household's cash assistance grant by twentyfive
per cent percent for one month.
2.For a second instance of noncompliance that
occurs in a month other than the month in which the first noncompliance
occurred, the department shall reduce the household's cash assistance grant by
fifty per cent percent for one month.
3.For a third instance of noncompliance that occurs
in a month other than the month in which the second noncompliance occurred and
any instance of noncompliance thereafter, the department shall terminate the
household's cash assistance grant for at least one month or until the household
complies.
D.The
department shall terminate benefits for any recipient who fails to comply with The child support enforcement efforts
prescribed by section 46292, subsection D unless good cause is
established pursuant to section 46292, subsections F and G or who is delinquent on any court
ordered child support payments, including arrears, unless expressly prohibited
by federal law. The period of disqualification for a recipient who is
terminated under this subsection ends once the department determines that the
person is cooperating with child support services and is no longer delinquent
on any court ordered child support payments, including arrears.END_STATUTE

