







REFERENCE TITLE: postsecondary campuses; public forums;
  activities







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2548









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer





AN ACT

repealing section
151864, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15, chapter 14, article
6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section 151864; relating to
universities and community colleges.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 15-1864, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 14, article 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 15-1864, to read:
START_STATUTE15-1864.Traditional public forums; use; restrictions; cause of
action
A.The
outdoor areas of campuses of universities and community colleges are
traditional public forums. Universities and community colleges may maintain
and enforce reasonable time, place and manner restrictions to further a
significant institutional interest only if those restrictions employ clear,
published, content and viewpoint-neutral criteria and provide for alternative
means of expression. Any such restrictions shall allow for members of the
campus community to spontaneously and contemporaneously assemble.
B.Any
person who wishes to engage in noncommercial expressive activity on campus
shall be allowed to do so freely if the person's conduct is not unlawful and
does not materially and substantially disrupt the functioning of the university
or community college subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
C.Expressive
activities that are protected under this section include all forms of peaceable
assembly, protests, speeches, distribution of literature, carrying signs and
circulating petitions.
D.This
section does not limit the right of student expression elsewhere on the campus
of a university or community college.
E.The following
persons may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any
violation of this section or to recover compensatory damages, reasonable court
costs and attorney fees:
1.The
attorney general.
2.A Person
whose expressive rights were violated by a violation of this section.
F.In an
action brought under subsection E of this section, if the court finds that a
violation of this section occurred, the court shall award the aggrieved person
at least five hundred dollars for the initial violation, plus fifty dollars for
each day the violation remains ongoing.
G.A person
shall bring an action for a violation of this section within one year after the
date the cause of action accrues. For the purpose of calculating the one-year
limitation period, each day that the violation persists or each day that a
policy in violation of this section remains in effect constitutes a new
violation of this section and shall be considered a day that the cause of
action has accrued.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Short title
This act may be
cited as the "Campus Free Expression Act".

