







REFERENCE TITLE: DCS; intake hotline; reports







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2522









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee, Carter: Allen J, Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
8201, 8455, 8456, 8471 and 8807.01, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to the department of child safety.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-201.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Abandoned" means the failure of the
parent to provide reasonable support and to maintain regular contact with the
child, including providing normal supervision. Abandoned includes a judicial
finding that a parent has made only minimal efforts to support and communicate
with the child.Failure to maintain a normal parental relationship
with the child without just cause for a period of six months constitutes prima
facie evidence of abandonment.
2."Abuse" means the infliction or
allowing of physical injury, impairment of bodily function or disfigurement or
the infliction of or allowing another person to cause serious emotional damage
as evidenced by severe anxiety, depression, withdrawal or untoward aggressive
behavior and which emotional damage is diagnosed by a medical doctor or
psychologist and is caused by the acts or omissions of an individual who has
the care, custody and control of a child.Abuse includes:
(a)Inflicting or allowing sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child
pursuant to section 131410, commercial sexual exploitation of a minor
pursuant to section 133552, sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to
section 133553, incest pursuant to section 133608 or child
prostitution pursuant to section 133212.
(b)Physical injury that results from permitting a
child to enter or remain in any structure or vehicle in which volatile, toxic
or flammable chemicals are found or equipment is possessed by any person for
the purpose of manufacturing a dangerous drug as defined in section 133401.
(c)Unreasonable confinement of a child.
3."Adult" means a person who is eighteen
years of age or older.
4."Adult court" means the appropriate
justice court, municipal court or criminal division of the superior court that
has jurisdiction to hear proceedings concerning offenses committed by juveniles
as provided in sections 8327 and 13501.
5."Award"
or "commit" means to assign legal custody.
6."Child", "youth" or
"juvenile" means an individual who is under the age of eighteen
years.
7."Complaint" means a written statement
of the essential facts constituting a public offense that is any of the
following:
(a)Made on an oath before a judge or commissioner
of the superior court or an authorized juvenile hearing officer.
(b)Made pursuant to section 133903.
(c)Accompanied by an affidavit of a law enforcement
officer or employee that swears on information and belief to the accuracy of
the complaint pursuant to section 134261.
8."Criminal conduct allegation" means an
allegation of conduct by a parent, guardian or custodian of a child or an adult
member of the victim's household that, if true, would constitute any of the
following:
(a)A violation of section 133623 involving
child abuse.
(b)A felony offense that constitutes domestic
violence as defined in section 133601.
(c)A violation of section 131404 or 131406
involving a minor.
(d)A violation of section 131405, 131410
or 131417.
(e)Any other act of abuse that is classified as a
felony.
(f)An offense that constitutes domestic violence as
defined in section 133601 and that involves a minor who is a victim of
or was in imminent danger during the domestic violence.
9."Custodian" means a person, other than
a parent or legal guardian, who stands in loco parentis to the child or a
person to whom legal custody of the child has been given by order of the
juvenile court.
10."DCS
report" means a communication received by the centralized intake hotline
that alleges child abuse or neglect and that meets the criteria for a report as
prescribed in section 8455.
10.11."Delinquency
hearing" means a proceeding in the juvenile court to determine whether a
juvenile has committed a specific delinquent act as set forth in a petition.
11.12."Delinquent
act" means an act by a juvenile that if committed by an adult would be a
criminal offense or a petty offense, a violation of any law of this state, or
of another state if the act occurred in that state, or a law of the United
States, or a violation of any law that can only be violated by a minor and that
has been designated as a delinquent offense, or any ordinance of a city, county
or political subdivision of this state defining crime.Delinquent
act does not include an offense under section 13501, subsection A or B
if the offense is filed in adult court.Any juvenile who is
prosecuted as an adult or who is remanded for prosecution as an adult shall not
be adjudicated as a delinquent juvenile for the same offense.
12.13."Delinquent
juvenile" means a child who is adjudicated to have committed a delinquent
act.
13.14."Department"
means the department of child safety.
14.15."Dependent
child":
(a)Means a child who is adjudicated to be:
(i)In need of proper and effective parental care
and control and who has no parent or guardian, or one who has no parent or
guardian willing to exercise or capable of exercising such care and control.
(ii)Destitute or who is not provided with the
necessities of life, including adequate food, clothing, shelter or medical
care.
(iii)A child whose home is unfit by reason of
abuse, neglect, cruelty or depravity by a parent, a guardian or any other
person having custody or care of the child.
(iv)Under eight years of age and who is found to
have committed an act that would result in adjudication as a delinquent
juvenile or incorrigible child if committed by an older juvenile or child.
(v)Incompetent or not restorable to competency and
who is alleged to have committed a serious offense as defined in section 13706.
(b)Does not include a child who in good faith is
being furnished Christian Science treatment by a duly accredited practitioner
if none of the circumstances described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph
exists.
15.16."Detention"
means the temporary confinement of a juvenile who requires secure care in a
physically restricting facility that is completely surrounded by a locked and
physically secure barrier with restricted ingress and egress for the protection
of the juvenile or the community pending court disposition or as a condition of
probation.
16.17."Director"
means the director of the department.
17.18."Health
professional" has the same meaning prescribed in section 323201.
18.19."Incorrigible
child" means a child who:
(a)Is adjudicated as a child who refuses to obey
the reasonable and proper orders or directions of a parent, guardian or
custodian and who is beyond the control of that person.
(b)Is habitually truant from school as defined in
section 15803, subsection C.
(c)Is a runaway from the child's home or parent,
guardian or custodian.
(d)Habitually behaves in such a manner as to injure
or endanger the morals or health of self or others.
(e)Commits any act constituting an offense that can
only be committed by a minor and that is not designated as a delinquent act.
(f)Fails to obey any lawful order of a court of
competent jurisdiction given in a noncriminal action.
19.20."Independent
living program" includes a residential program with supervision of less
than twentyfour hours a day.
20.21."Juvenile
court" means the juvenile division of the superior court when exercising
its jurisdiction over children in any proceeding relating to delinquency,
dependency or incorrigibility.
21.22."Law
enforcement officer" means a peace officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff,
municipal police officer or constable.
22.23."Medical
director of a mental health agency" means a psychiatrist, or licensed
physician experienced in psychiatric matters, who is designated in writing by
the governing body of the agency as the person in charge of the medical
services of the agency, or a psychiatrist designated by the governing body to
act for the director.The term includes the superintendent of the
state hospital.
23.24."Mental
health agency" means any private or public facility that is licensed by
this state as a mental health treatment agency, a psychiatric hospital, a
psychiatric unit of a general hospital or a residential treatment center for
emotionally disturbed children and that uses secure settings or mechanical
restraints.
24.25."Neglect"
or "neglected" means:
(a)The inability or unwillingness of a parent,
guardian or custodian of a child to provide that child with supervision, food,
clothing, shelter or medical care if that inability or unwillingness causes
unreasonable risk of harm to the child's health or welfare, except if the
inability of a parent, guardian or custodian to provide services to meet the
needs of a child with a disability or chronic illness is solely the result of
the unavailability of reasonable services.
(b)Permitting a child to enter or remain in any
structure or vehicle in which volatile, toxic or flammable chemicals are found
or equipment is possessed by any person for the purposes of manufacturing a
dangerous drug as defined in section 13-3401.
(c)A determination by a health professional that a
newborn infant was exposed prenatally to a drug or substance listed in section
13-3401 and that this exposure was not the result of a medical treatment administered
to the mother or the newborn infant by a health professional. This subdivision
does not expand a health professional's duty to report neglect based on
prenatal exposure to a drug or substance listed in section 133401 beyond
the requirements prescribed pursuant to section 133620, subsection E.
The determination by the health professional shall be based on one or more of
the following:
(i)Clinical indicators in the prenatal period
including maternal and newborn presentation.
(ii)History of substance use or abuse.
(iii)Medical history.
(iv)Results of a toxicology or other laboratory
test on the mother or the newborn infant.
(d)Diagnosis by a health professional of an infant
under one year of age with clinical findings consistent with fetal alcohol
syndrome or fetal alcohol effects.
(e)Deliberate exposure of a child by a parent,
guardian or custodian to sexual conduct as defined in section 133551 or
to sexual contact, oral sexual contact or sexual intercourse as defined in
section 13-1401, bestiality as prescribed in section 131411 or explicit
sexual materials as defined in section 13-3507.
(f)Any of the following acts committed by the
child's parent, guardian or custodian with reckless disregard as to whether the
child is physically present:
(i)Sexual contact as defined in section 131401.
(ii)Oral sexual contact as defined in section 131401.
(iii)Sexual intercourse as defined in section 131401.
(iv)Bestiality as prescribed in section 131411.
25.26."Newborn
infant" means a child who is under thirty days of age.
26.27."Petition"
means a written statement of the essential facts that allege delinquency,
incorrigibility or dependency.
27.28."Prevention"
means the creation of conditions, opportunities and experiences that encourage
and develop healthy, selfsufficient children and that occur before the
onset of problems. 
28.29."Protective
supervision" means supervision that is ordered by the juvenile court of
children who are found to be dependent or incorrigible.
29.30."Referral"
means a report that is submitted to the juvenile court and that alleges that a
child is dependent or incorrigible or that a juvenile has committed a
delinquent or criminal act.
30."Report
for investigation" means a report prepared pursuant to section 8455,
subsection D.
31."Secure care" means confinement in a
facility that is completely surrounded by a locked and physically secure
barrier with restricted ingress and egress.
32."Serious emotional injury" means an
injury that is diagnosed by a medical doctor or a psychologist and that does
any one or a combination of the following:
(a)Seriously impairs mental faculties.
(b)Causes serious anxiety, depression, withdrawal
or social dysfunction behavior to the extent that the child suffers dysfunction
that requires treatment.
(c)Is the result of sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child
pursuant to section 131410, child prostitution pursuant to section 133212,
commercial sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133552,
sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133553 or incest
pursuant to section 133608.
33."Serious physical injury" means an
injury that is diagnosed by a medical doctor and that does any one or a
combination of the following:
(a)Creates a reasonable risk of death.
(b)Causes serious or permanent disfigurement.
(c)Causes significant physical pain.
(d)Causes serious impairment of health.
(e)Causes the loss or protracted impairment of an
organ or limb.
(f)Is the result of sexual abuse pursuant to
section 131404, sexual conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405,
sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, molestation of a child
pursuant to section 131410, child prostitution pursuant to section 133212,
commercial sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133552,
sexual exploitation of a minor pursuant to section 133553 or incest
pursuant to section 133608.
34."Shelter care" means the temporary
care of a child in any public or private facility or home that is licensed by
this state and that offers a physically nonsecure environment that is
characterized by the absence of physically restricting construction or hardware
and that provides the child access to the surrounding community. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-455, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-455.Centralized intake hotline; purposes; report of possible
crime; DCS report; risk assessment tools; access to information; public
awareness; definition
A.The department shall operate and maintain a
centralized intake hotline to protect children by receiving at all times
communications concerning suspected abuse or neglect. If a person communicates
suspected abuse or neglect to a department employee other than through the
hotline, the employee shall refer the person or communication to the hotline.
B.The hotline is the first step in the safety
assessment and investigation process and must be operated to:
1.Record communications made concerning suspected
abuse or neglect.
2.Immediately take steps necessary to identify and
locate prior communications and dcs reports
for investigation related
to the current communication using the department's data system and the central
registry system of this state.
3.Quickly and efficiently provide information to a
law enforcement agency or prepare a DCS
report for investigation
as required by this section.
4.Determine the proper initial priority level of
investigation based on the risk assessment and direct the DCS report for investigation to the appropriate part of
the department based on this determination.
C.If a communication provides a reason to believe
that a criminal offense has been committed and the communication does not meet the criteria for a DCS
report, the hotline worker shall immediately provide the
information to both of the following:
1.The
appropriate law enforcement agency pursuant to the protocols developed pursuant
to section 8817.
2.If a report
for investigation is prepared as required in subsection D of this section and
the suspected criminal offense is a criminal conduct allegation, the office of
child welfare investigations the appropriate law enforcement agency.
D.A hotline worker shall prepare a DCS report for investigation if the identity or current location of the child victim, the
child's family or the person suspected of abuse or neglect is known and all
of the following are alleged:
1.The suspected conduct would constitute abuse or
neglect.
2.The suspected victim of the conduct is under
eighteen years of age.
3.The suspected victim of the conduct is a resident
of or present in this state or
and any act involved in
the suspected abuse or neglect occurred in this state.
4.The person suspected of committing the abuse or
neglect is the parent, guardian or custodian of the victim or an adult member of
the victim's household.
E.Except
for criminal conduct allegations, the department does not have to prepare a DCS
report if all of the following apply:
1.The
suspected conduct occurred MORe ThAN one year before the communication to the
hotline.
2.The
suspected child victim was at least twelve years of age when the alleged abuse
occurred.
3.There is
no information or indication that the child victim is currently being abused or
neglected.
E.F.All reports for investigation must be investigated
Investigations of DCS reports shall be
conducted as provided in section 8456 except for investigations containing allegations of criminal
conduct, which shall be conducted as provided in section 8471.
F.If
otherwise required by:
1.Subsection
C of this section, information must be provided to the appropriate law
enforcement agency even if the identity or location of the person suspected of
abuse or neglect or the victim of the abuse or neglect is not known.
2.Subsection
D of this section, a report for investigation must be prepared even if the
identity or location of the person suspected of abuse or neglect or the victim
of the abuse or neglect is not known.
G.The department shall develop and train hotline
workers to use uniform risk assessment tools to determine:
1.Whether the suspected conduct constitutes abuse
or neglect and the severity of the suspected abuse or neglect.
2.Whether the suspected abuse or neglect involves
criminal conduct, even if the communication does not result in the preparation
of a DCS report for investigation.
3.The appropriate investigative track for referral
based on the risk to the child's safety.
H.A DCS report
for investigation must
include, if available, all of the following:
1.The name, address or contact information for the
person making the communication.
2.The name, address and other location or contact
information for the parent, guardian or custodian of the child or other adult
member of the child's household who is suspected of committing the abuse or neglect.
3.The name, address and other location or contact
information for the child.
4.The nature and extent of the indications of the
child's abuse or neglect, including any indication of physical injury.
5.Any information regarding possible prior abuse or
neglect, including reference to any communication or dcs report for investigation involving the child, the
child's siblings or the person suspected of committing the abuse or neglect.
I.Information gathered through the hotline must be
made available to an employee of the department in order to perform the
employee's duties. The office of child welfare investigations and the
inspections bureau must have immediate access to all records of the hotline.
J.A representative of the:
1.Office of child welfare investigations must be
embedded in the hotline to carry out the purposes of section 8471.
2.Inspections bureau must be embedded in the
hotline to carry out the purposes of section 8458.
K.The department shall publicize the availability
and the purposes of the centralized intake hotline.
L.For the purposes of this section, :
1."Centralized
intake hotline" means the system developed pursuant to this section
regardless of the communication methods or technologies used to implement the
system.
2."Criminal
offense" means an ALLEGATION of conduct against a child by a person other
than a parent, guardian or custodian of the child victim or another adult
member of the child's household that, if true, would constitute a FELONY
offense. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 8-456, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-456.Investigative function; training; criminal offenses;
definition
A.The department shall train all investigators in
forensic interviewing and processes and the protocols established pursuant to
section 8817. The training must include:
1.Uniform safety and risk assessment tools to
determine whether the conduct constitutes abuse or neglect and the severity of
the abuse or neglect.
2.The duty to protect the legal and due process
rights of children and families from the time of the initial contact through
case closure.
3.Instruction on a child's rights as a crime victim
and instruction on the legal rights of parents.
4.A checklist or other mechanism to assist the
investigator in giving consideration to the relevant factors in each
investigation.
B.The office of child welfare investigations shall
investigate DCS reports for investigation that contain a
criminal conduct allegation as provided in sections 8471 and 8817.
C.After receiving a DCS report for investigation from the centralized intake
hotline pursuant to section 8455, an investigator shall do all of the following:
1.Make a prompt and thorough investigation. An
investigation must evaluate and determine the nature, extent and cause of any
condition created by the parents, guardian or custodian or an adult member of
the victim's household that would tend to support or refute the allegation that
the child is a victim of abuse or neglect and determine the name, age and
condition of other children in the home.If an investigator has
sufficient information to determine that the child is not a victim of abuse or
neglect, the investigator may close the investigation.
2.If required by section 8821 and subject to
section 8471, take a child into temporary custody. Law enforcement
officers shall cooperate with the department to remove a child from the custody
of the child's parents, guardian or custodian when necessary.
D.After an investigation, an investigator shall:
1.Determine whether any child is in need of child
safety services consistent with the evaluation and determination made pursuant
to subsection C of this section.
2.If appropriate pursuant to section 8846,
offer to the family of any child who is found to be a child in need of child
safety services those services that are designed to correct unresolved problems
that would indicate a reason to adjudicate the child dependent.
3.Submit a written report of the investigator's
investigation to:
(a)The department's case management information
system within a reasonable amount of time that does not exceed forty-five days
after receipt of the DCS report
for investigation except as
provided in section 8811. If the investigation involves allegations
regarding a child who at the time of the alleged incident was in the custody of
a child welfare agency licensed by the department under this title, a copy of
the report and any additional investigative or other related reports must be
provided to the board of directors of the agency or to the administrative head
of the agency unless the incident is alleged to have been committed by the
person. The department shall excise all information with regard to the
identity of the source of the reports.
(b)The appropriate court fortyeight hours
before a dependency hearing pursuant to a petition of dependency or within
twentyone days after a petition of dependency is filed, whichever is
earlier. On receipt of the report the court shall make the report available to
all parties and counsel.
4.Accept a child into voluntary placement pursuant
to section 8806.
5.Identify, promptly obtain and abide by court
orders that restrict or deny custody, visitation or contact by a parent or
other person in the home with the child and notify appropriate personnel in the
department to preclude violations of a court order in the provision of any
services.
E.In conducting an investigation pursuant to this
section, if the investigator is made aware that an allegation of abuse or
neglect may also have been made in another state, the investigator shall
contact the appropriate agency in that state to attempt to determine the outcome
of any investigation of that allegation.
F.If an investigation indicates a reason to believe
that a criminal offense has been committed, the investigator shall immediately
provide the information to the appropriate law enforcement agency and the
office of child welfare investigations, unless the information was previously
provided pursuant to section 8455.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"investigator" means an employee of the department who investigates
allegations of abuse or neglect pursuant to a DCS report for investigation. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 8-471, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-471.Office of child welfare investigations; training;
responsibilities; annual report
A.The director shall establish the office of child
welfare investigations within the department.The director is
responsible for the direction, operation and control of the office.
B.The duties of the office include investigating
criminal conduct allegations, coordinating with other parts of the department
and law enforcement, establishing task forces for the investigation of criminal
conduct and other duties as may be assigned by the director.
C.The office shall employ child welfare
investigators who have received training to understand law enforcement's role
in cases of criminal child abuse or neglect and in social services offered by
the department. The office may employ research analysts and peace officers for
the purpose of obtaining an originating agency identification number to have
direct access to criminal history report information. Each person hired by the
office is an employee of the department, is subject to title 41, chapter 4, article
4 and shall comply with the fingerprint requirements of section 8802.
D.The department, in coordination with the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board, shall provide child welfare
investigators with training. The training shall be, at a minimum, in the
following areas:
1.First responder training on responding to reports
of child abuse.
2.Forensic interviewing and processes.
3.Child physical and sexual abuse investigation.
4.The protocols established pursuant to section 8817.
5.Relevant law enforcement procedures, including
the collection and preservation of evidence.
6.A child's constitutional rights as a victim of a
crime pursuant to article II, section 2.1, Constitution of Arizona.
7.Impact and intervention practices related to
adverse childhood experiences, culturally and linguistically appropriate
service delivery, domestic violence, family engagement, communication with
special populations and trauma informed responses.
8.Any other training as directed by the director.
E.A child welfare investigator shall:
1.Protect children.
2.Assess, respond to or investigate all criminal
conduct allegations, which shall be a priority, but not otherwise exercise the
authority of a peace officer.
3.Not interview a child without the prior written
consent of the parent, guardian or custodian of the child unless either:
(a)The child initiates contact with the
investigator.
(b)The child who is interviewed is the subject of,
is the sibling of or is living with the child who is the subject of an abuse or
abandonment investigation pursuant to paragraph 4, subdivision (b) of this
subsection.
(c)The interview is conducted pursuant to the terms
of the protocols established pursuant to section 8817.
4.After the receipt of any report or information
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection, immediately do both of the
following:
(a)Notify the appropriate municipal or county law
enforcement agency if they have not already been notified.
(b)Make a prompt and thorough investigation of the
nature, extent and cause of any condition that would tend to support or refute
the report of child abuse or neglect when investigating allegations pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this subsection. A criminal conduct allegation shall be
investigated with the appropriate municipal or county law enforcement agency
according to the protocols established pursuant to section 8817.
5.Take a child into temporary custody as provided
in section 8821. Law enforcement officers shall cooperate with the department
to remove a child from the custody of the child's parents, guardian or
custodian pursuant to section 8821.A child welfare
investigator who is responding to or investigating a report containing a
criminal conduct allegation shall have the primary responsibility for making
the decision whether to take a child into temporary custody.
6.Evaluate conditions created by the parents,
guardian or custodian that would support or refute the allegation that the
child should be adjudicated dependent.The investigator shall then
determine whether any child is in need of child safety services.
7.Identify, promptly obtain and abide by court
orders that restrict or deny custody, visitation or contact by a parent or
other person in the home with the child and notify appropriate personnel within
the department to preclude violations of a court order in the provision of any
services.
8.On initial contact with the parent, guardian or
custodian of a child who is the subject of an investigation pursuant to this section,
provide the parent, guardian or custodian with the allegation received by the
department.This paragraph does not require the department to
disclose details or information that would compromise an ongoing criminal
investigation.
9.Have access to all records and information of the
department necessary to carry out this section.
F.Unless a dependency petition is filed, a child
shall not remain in temporary custody for a period exceeding seventy-two hours,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. If a petition is not filed, the
child shall be released to the child's parent, guardian or custodian.
G.In conducting an investigation pursuant to this
section, if the investigator is made aware that an allegation of abuse or
neglect may also have been made in another state, the investigator shall
contact the appropriate agency in that state to attempt to determine the
outcome of any investigation of that allegation.
H.The office of child welfare investigations shall
submit a report by August 15 each year to the governor, the speaker of the
house of representatives, the president of the senate and the secretary of
state that includes the following information for the most recently completed
fiscal year:
1.The number of DCS reports for investigation that involve criminal conduct
allegations. 
2.The number of joint investigations conducted
pursuant to section 8817.
3.For each case in which a joint investigation did
not occur pursuant to section 8817, the reasons why the joint
investigation did not occur.
I.All records gathered or created by the department
during an investigation conducted under this section are confidential and shall
be protected and released as prescribed in sections 8807 and 8807.01,
except the department shall not release records if the department determines
that the release of these records may compromise an ongoing investigation.
J.Notwithstanding any other law, the office of
child welfare investigations is not responsible for conducting the criminal
investigation of a criminal conduct allegation. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 8-807.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-807.01.Incidents involving fatality or near fatality; definition
A.The department shall promptly provide DCS
information to the public regarding a case of child abuse, abandonment or
neglect that has resulted in a fatality or near fatality as follows:
1.The department shall provide preliminary
information including at a minimum:
(a)In the case of a fatality, the name of the child
who has died.
(b)The age, gender, county and general location of
the residence of the child who has suffered a fatality or a near fatality.
(c)The fact that a child suffered a fatality or
near fatality as the result of abuse, abandonment or neglect.
(d)The name, age and city, town or general location
of the residence of the alleged perpetrator, if available, unless the
disclosure would violate the privacy of victims of crime pursuant to article
II, section 2.1, Constitution of Arizona.
(e)Whether there have been reports, or any current
or past cases, of abuse, abandonment or neglect involving the child or the
alleged perpetrator.
(f)Actions taken by the department in response to
the fatality or near fatality of the child.
(g)A detailed synopsis of prior reports or cases of
abuse, abandonment or neglect involving the child or the alleged perpetrator
and of the actions taken or determinations made by the department in response
to these reports or cases.
2.On request by any person, the department shall
promptly provide additional DCS information to the requestor in a case of child
abuse, abandonment or neglect that has resulted in a fatality or a near fatality.
Before releasing additional DCS information, the department shall promptly
notify the county attorney of any decision to release that information, and the
county attorney shall promptly inform the department if it believes the release
would cause a specific, material harm to a criminal investigation or
prosecution.After consulting with the county attorney, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of this subsection, the department shall produce to the requestor
as much additional DCS information as promptly as possible about a case of
child abuse, abandonment or neglect that resulted in a fatality or near
fatality.
3.On request, the department shall continue to
provide DCS information promptly to the public about a fatality or near
fatality unless:
(a)After consultation with the county attorney, the
county attorney demonstrates that release of particular DCS information would
cause a specific, material harm to a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(b)The release would violate section 8807,
subsection A or L or the privacy of victims of crime pursuant to article II,
section 2.1, Constitution of Arizona.
4.If any person believes that the county attorney
has failed to demonstrate that release would cause a specific, material harm to
a criminal investigation or prosecution, that person may file an action in
superior court pursuant to title 39, chapter 1, article 2 and section 8807,
subsection J and request the court to review the DCS information in camera to
determine if disclosure should be ordered.
5.Within ninety days after the date of the DCS report for investigation for a case involving a
fatality or a near fatality, the department shall provide to the public a
summary report that: 
(a)May include any actions taken by the department
in response to the case, any changes in policies or practices that have been
made to address any issues raised in the review of the case and any
recommendations for further changes in policies, practices, rules or statutes
to address those issues.
(b)Shall include the information prescribed in
subsection B of this section if the child was residing in the child's home and
in subsection C of this section if the child was placed in an outofhome
placement.
B.If the summary report prescribed in subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section involves a child who was residing in the child's
home, the summary report shall contain a summary of all of the following:
1.Whether services pursuant to this chapter were
being provided to the child, a member of the child's family or the person
suspected of the abuse or neglect at the time of the incident and the date of
the last contact before the incident between the entity providing the services
and the person receiving the services.
2.Whether the child, a member of the child's family
or the person suspected of the abuse or neglect was the subject of a DCS report for investigation at the time of the incident.
3.All involvement of the child's parents and of the
person suspected of the abuse or neglect in a situation for which a DCS report for investigation was made or in services
provided pursuant to this chapter in the five years preceding the incident
involving a fatality or a near fatality.
4.Any investigation pursuant to a DCS report for investigation concerning the child, a member
of the child's family or the person suspected of the abuse or neglect or
services provided to the child or the child's family since the date of the
incident involving a fatality or a near fatality.
C.If the summary report prescribed in subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section involves a child who was in outofhome
placement, the summary report shall include the name of any agency the licensee
was licensed by, the licensing history of the outofhome
placement, including the type of license held by the operator of the placement,
the period for which the placement has been licensed and a summary of all
violations by the licensee and any other actions by the licensee or an employee
of the licensee that constitute a substantial failure to protect and promote
the health, safety and welfare of a child.
D.For the purposes of this section, "near
fatality" means an act that, as certified by a physician, including the
child's treating physician, places a child in serious or critical condition. END_STATUTE

