







REFERENCE TITLE: community facilities districts;
  formation; governance 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2568









Introduced by
Representative
  Gowan





AN ACT

AMENDING SECTIONS
48-701, 48-702, 48-711 and 48-723, Arizona Revised Statutes; RELATING TO
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICTS.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-701, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-701.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Clerk" includes any person or official
who performs the duties of clerk of the municipality or county or any person
appointed by the district board to be the district clerk pursuant to section 48711, subsection D.
2."County" means a county that forms a
community facilities district pursuant to this article in an unincorporated
area or in an incorporated area with the municipality's consent.
3."Debt service" means the principal of,
interest on and premium, if any, on the bonds, when due, whether at maturity or
prior redemption and fees and costs of registrars, trustees, paying agents or
other agents necessary to handle the bonds and the costs of credit enhancement
or liquidity support.
4."District" means a tax levying
community facilities district formed pursuant to this article by a municipality
or formed pursuant to this article by a county in an unincorporated area or in
an incorporated area with the municipality's consent.
5."District board" means the board of
directors of the district, which shall be
comprised consist of
the members of the governing body of the municipality or county, ex officio, or, at the option of the governing body,
five directors appointed by the governing body under this article pursuant to section 48-711.
6."Enhanced municipal services" means
public service provided by a county or municipality within the district at a
higher level or to a greater degree than provided in the remainder of the
county or municipality, including such services as public safety, fire
protection, street or sidewalk cleaning or landscape maintenance in public
areas.
7."General obligation bond" means a bond
that is issued pursuant to section 48719 and that is secured by a pledge
of ad valorem taxes levied by the district.
8."General plan" means the general plan
described in section 48702, subsection B, as the plan may be amended.
9."Governing body" means the body or
board which that by law is constituted as the legislative
department of the municipality or county.
10."Municipality" means an incorporated
city or town.
11."Owner" means the person who, on the
day the action, election or proceeding is begun or held, appears to be the
owner of real property as shown on the property tax assessment roll.
12."Public infrastructure" means all
improvements listed in this paragraph that will result in a beneficial use
principally to land within the geographical limits of the district and may
include a district's share of any improvements listed in this paragraph if the
district board determines such share is proportionate to the beneficial use of
such improvements to land within the geographical limits of the district,
improvements within or outside the geographical limits of the district,
necessary or incidental work, whether newly constructed, renovated or existing,
and all necessary or desirable appurtenances. For the purposes of this paragraph,
adoption by the district board of a resolution of intent pursuant to section 48715
shall conclusively establish that the improvements or, if applicable, share of
the improvements that are the subject of the resolution will result in a
beneficial use principally to land within the geographical limits of the
district. Public infrastructure improvements are:
(a)Sanitary sewage systems, including collection,
transport, storage, treatment, dispersal, effluent use and discharge.
(b)Drainage and flood control systems, including
collection, transport, diversion, storage, detention, retention, dispersal, use
and discharge.
(c)Water systems for domestic, industrial,
irrigation, municipal or fire protection purposes, including production,
collection, storage, treatment, transport, delivery, connection and dispersal,
but not including facilities for agricultural irrigation purposes unless for
the repair or replacement of existing facilities when required by other
improvements permitted by this article.
(d)Highways, streets, roadways and parking
facilities, including all areas for vehicular use for travel, ingress, egress
and parking.
(e)Areas for pedestrian, equestrian, bicycle or
other nonmotor vehicle use for travel, ingress, egress and parking.
(f)Pedestrian malls, parks, recreational facilities
other than stadiums, and open space areas for the use of members of the public
for entertainment, assembly and recreation.
(g)Landscaping, including earthworks, structures,
lakes and other water features, plants, trees and related water delivery
systems.
(h)Public buildings, public safety facilities and
fire protection facilities.
(i)Lighting systems.
(j)Traffic control systems and devices, including
signals, controls, markings and signage.
(k)Equipment, vehicles, furnishings and other
personalty related to the items listed in this paragraph.
13."Public infrastructure purpose" means:
(a)Planning, design, engineering, construction,
acquisition or installation of public infrastructure.
(b)Acquiring, converting, renovating or improving
existing facilities for public infrastructure.
(c)Acquiring interests in real property for public
infrastructure.
(d)Establishing, maintaining and replenishing
reserves from any source described in section 48717 or from any other
source in order to secure payment of debt service on bonds.
(e)Notwithstanding section 48589, funding
and paying from bond proceeds interest accruing on bonds for a period of not to
exceed three years from their date of issuance.
(f)Providing for the timely payment of debt service
on bonds or other indebtedness of the district.
(g)Refinancing any matured or unmatured bonds with
new bonds.
(h)Incurring expenses of the district incident to
and reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes specified in this paragraph.
14."Revenue bonds" means those bonds that
are issued pursuant to section 48720 and that are secured by a pledge of
revenues of the district or revenues collected by the county or municipality
and returned to the district.
15."Treasurer" includes any person or
official who performs the duties of treasurer of the municipality or county or
any person appointed by the district board as the district treasurer pursuant
to section 48711,subsection
D. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 48-702, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-702.Resolution declaring intention to form district
A.If the public convenience and necessity require,
and on presentation of a petition signed by the owners of at least twentyfive
per cent percent of the land area proposed to be
included in the district, the governing body may adopt a resolution declaring
its intention to form a community facilities district to that
shall include contiguous or noncontiguous property which shall be that is wholly within the corporate boundaries
of the municipality or county.
Beginning with districts formed after the effective date of this amendment to
this section, if the land proposed to be included in the district is more than
six hundred acres, on presentation of a petition signed by the owners of all of
the land area proposed to be included in the district, the governing body shall
adopt a resolution declaring its intention to form a community facilities
district to include contiguous or noncontiguous property that is wholly within
the corporate boundaries of the municipality or county. The
resolution shall state the following:
1.The area or areas to be included in the district.
2.The purposes for which the district is to be
formed.
3.That a general plan for the district is on file
with the clerk.
4.The date, time and place of the hearing to be
held on the formation of the district.
5.The place where written objections to the
formation of the district may be filed.
6.That formation of the district may result in the
levy of taxes to pay the costs of improvements constructed by the district and
for their operation and maintenance.
7.A reference to this article.
8.Whether the district will be governed by a
district board comprised that consists of the members of
the governing body, ex officio, or, at the option of the governing body or, for districts formed after the effective
date of this amendment to this section, at the option of the landowners and
if the total area to be included in the district is larger than six hundred
acres, five directors appointed by the
governing body pursuant
to section 48711, subsection C.
B.Before adopting a resolution under this section,
a general plan for the district shall be filed with the clerk setting out a
general description of the public infrastructure improvements for which the
district is proposed to be formed and the general areas to be improved. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 48-711, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-711.Records; board of directors; open meetings
A.The district shall keep the following records which that shall be open to public inspection:
1.Minutes of all meetings of the district board.
2.All resolutions.
3.Accounts showing all monies received and
disbursed.
4.The annual budget.
5.All other records required to be maintained by
law.
B.If the resolution ordering formation of the
district provides that the district will be governed by a district board
appointed by the governing body, each appointed director shall serve for a term
of six years, except that two directors initially appointed by the governing
body in the resolution shall serve for a term of four years. The resolution
shall state which directors shall serve four year terms and which shall serve
six year terms.On the expiration of the term of an appointed
director, the governing body shall appoint a person to fill the position and, for districts formed on or after the
effective date of this amendment to this section, shall do so in a manner that
complies with this section and that maintains the composition of the board as
prescribed by subsection C of this section. If a vacancy occurs
on the district board because of death, resignation or inability of the
director to discharge the duties of director, the vacancy shall be filled by
appointment made by the governing body and,
for districts formed on or after the effective date of this amendment to this
section, in a manner that complies with this section and that maintains the
composition of the board as prescribed by subsection C of this section.A
director appointed by the governing body after a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the
unexpired term until his that director's successor is
appointed.An appointed
A director appointed pursuant to this subsection in a
district formed before the effective date of this amendment to this section shall
not be a landowner owning more than forty acres in the district, an elected
official of the municipality or county or an employee or agent of the landowner
or municipality or county but may be a director of more than one district.
C.Beginning
with districts formed on or after the effective date of this amendment to this
section, The appointed district board shall consist of two members who are
selected by the governing body, two members who are selected by designation of
the persons who each own more than twenty-five acres in the district and one
member who is selected by the governing body from a list of at least four
persons who are submitted by designation of the persons who each own more than
twenty-five acres in the district. A director appointed pursuant to this
subsection may be a director of more than one district.
D.The
members of the governing body of the municipality
or county district are
not eligible to receive compensation for their services as members of the
district board.
C.E.The board of
directors shall comply with title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1 as a separate
political subdivision.
D.F.The district manager, clerk and district treasurer shall be the manager, clerk of the municipality or county and the treasurer of the municipality
or county, respectively, unless the district board appoints a district manager, clerk and district treasurer.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 48-723, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-723.District taxes; annual financial estimate and budget
A.Except as provided in subsection D of this
section and at any time after the hearing on formation of the district, the
district board, or, if before formation, the governing body, may call an
election to submit to the qualified electors of the district or to the persons
qualified to vote pursuant to section 48707, subsection G the question
of authorizing the district board to levy an ad valorem tax on the assessed
value of all the real and personal property in the district at a rate or rates which that do not exceed the maximum rate or rates
specified in the ballot.All taxes attributable to the operation and
maintenance expenses of the district, excluding expenses for an area described
in section 48709, subsection G, shall not exceed, for districts formed before the effective date of this
amendment to this section, an amount equal to thirty cents per
one hundred dollars of assessed valuation for all real and personal property in
the district or for districts formed on
or after the effective date of this amendment to this section, fifty cents per
one hundred dollars of assessed valuation for all real and personal property in
the district, unless, for
any district, a higher rate is approved by a vote of the electors
of the district, or by the persons who are qualified to vote as provided in
section 48707, subsection G, voting at an election not less than three
years after the date of the formation of the district.The election
may be held in conjunction with the formation election.Once
approved at an election, the maximum rate remains in effect until increased or
decreased at a subsequent election.If a maximum rate is in effect,
the district board, on petition of twenty-five per cent percent of the qualified electors of the district, or by
those persons owning twenty-five per cent
percent of the land area
who are qualified to vote pursuant to section 48707, subsection G, shall
call an election to reduce the maximum tax rate but not below the lesser of
that rate determined by the district board to be necessary to maintain the
district's facilities and improvements or the actual rate then in
effect.On the presentation to the district board of a petition
signed by the owners of a majority of the property in the district, the
district board shall adopt a resolution to reduce or eliminate the portion of
the tax, beginning the next fiscal year, required for one or more enhanced
municipal services specified in the petition.Signatures on a
petition to reduce or eliminate a tax are valid for a period of sixty days.
B.The district may not levy, other than for the
payment of debt service on general obligation bonds, at a rate or rates in
excess of the maximum rate then in effect.
C.When levying an ad valorem tax, the district
board shall make annual statements and estimates of the operation and
maintenance expenses of the district, the costs of capital improvements to be
financed by the tax levy or levies and the amount of all other expenditures for
public infrastructure and enhanced municipal services proposed to be paid from
the tax levy or levies and of the amount to be raised to pay general obligation
bonds of the district, all of which shall be provided for by the levy and
collection of ad valorem taxes on the assessed value of all the real and
personal property in the district.The district board shall file the
annual statements and estimates with the clerk.The district board
shall publish a notice of the filing of the estimate, shall hold hearings on
the portions of the estimate not relating to debt service on general obligation
bonds and shall adopt a budget.The board, on or before the date set
by law for certifying the annual budget of the county or municipality, shall
fix, levy and assess the amounts to be raised by ad valorem taxes of the
district and shall cause certified copies of the order to be delivered to the
board of supervisors and to the department of revenue.All statutes
relating to the levy and collection of general county taxes, including the
collection of delinquent taxes and sale of property for nonpayment of taxes,
apply to the district taxes provided for by this section.END_STATUTE

