







REFERENCE TITLE: foster parents; training







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2581









Introduced by
Representatives
  Gabaldn, Andrade, Benally, Espinoza, Fernandez, Gonzales, Saldate,
  Velasquez: Alston, Friese, Kopec, Rios





AN ACT

amending sections
8503 and 8509, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to foster
parents.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-503.Powers and duties
A.The division shall:
1.Exercise supervision over all child welfare
agencies.
2.Advise and cooperate with the governing boards of
all child welfare agencies.
3.Assist the staffs of all child welfare agencies
by giving advice on progressive methods and procedures of child care and
improvement of services.
4.Establish rules, regulations, and standards for:
(a)Licensing of child welfare agencies.
(b)Licensing of foster homes.
(c)Classifications of foster homes as:
(i)Receiving foster homes.
(ii)Regular foster homes.
(iii)Special classes of foster homes as are needed
according to the types of problems involved.
(iv)Group foster homes.
(d)Certifying each foster home according to one or
more of the categories prescribed in subdivision (c) of this paragraph.
(e)Initial and ongoing foster parent training
programs.
(f)The method of approving foster parent training
programs.
(g)Uniform amounts of payment for all foster homes
according to certification. However, variations in uniform amounts of payments
may be allowed for foster homes based on consideration of geographical location
or age or mental or physical condition of a foster child.
(h)Renewal of licenses of child welfare agencies
and foster homes.
(i)Form and content of investigations, reports and
studies concerning disposition of children and foster home placement.
5.Establish a program of counseling and
rehabilitation of parents whose children have been placed in foster homes.
6.Establish foster parent training programs or
contract with other agencies, institutions or groups for the provision of such training programs to foster parents. This training shall include a mandatory
workshop on cultural hygiene.Foster parent training
programs shall be established in at least the following areas:
(a)Initial and ongoing training as a foster parent
for a regular or group foster home.
(b)Initial and ongoing training as a foster parent
for a special foster home.
7.Regulate the importation and exportation of
children.
8.In conjunction with the department of education
and the department of juvenile corrections, develop and implement a uniform
budget format to be submitted by licensed child welfare
agencies.The budget format shall be developed in such a manner
that, at a minimum, residential and educational instructional costs are
separate and distinct budgetary items.
9.Beginning
October 1, 1983, Establish
as a goal that, at any given time, not more than fifty per cent
percent of the total number of children whose maintenance is
subsidized by title IV, part E of the social security act, as amended, shall be
in foster care in excess of twentyfour consecutive months. The division
shall establish through regulations appropriate procedures to achieve the goal.
B.Except as provided in section 8514.01,
large group settings for children, group homes for children and child
developmental foster homes which that have one or more
residents who are clients of the department with developmental disabilities
shall be licensed pursuant to title 36, chapter 5.1, article 3. Rules,
regulations and standards adopted pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 4 of this
section shall not apply to group homes for children or child developmental
foster homes licensed pursuant to title 36, chapter 5.1, article 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-509, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-509.Licensing of foster homes; renewal of license; provisional
license; exemption from licensure; immunization requirements
A.The division shall license and certify foster
homes. Licenses are valid for a period of two years.
B.The division shall not issue a license without
satisfactory proof that the foster parent or parents have completed six eight actual hours of approved initial foster
parent training as set forth in section 8503 and that each foster parent
and each other adult member of the household has a valid fingerprint clearance
card issued pursuant to section 411758.07. The foster parent and each
other adult member of the household must certify on forms that are provided by
the division and that are notarized whether the foster parent or other adult
member of the household is awaiting trial on or has ever been convicted of any
of the criminal offenses listed in section 411758.07, subsections B and
C in this state or similar offenses in another state or jurisdiction.
C.The division shall not renew a license without
satisfactory proof that the foster parent or parents have completed six eight actual hours of approved ongoing foster
parent training per year as set forth in section 8503.
D.Notwithstanding the requirements of subsections B
and C of this section, if the division determines a condition of hardship to
the foster parent or parents, the division may issue a provisional license for
a period not to exceed six months.A provisional license may not be
renewed.
E.Child welfare agencies that submit foster homes
for licensing shall conduct an investigation of the foster home pursuant to
licensing rules of the division. The division shall conduct investigations of
all other foster homes. If the foster home meets all requirements set by the
division, the agency shall submit an application stating the foster home's
qualifications to the division.The agency may also recommend the
types of licensing and certification to be granted to the foster home.
F.The division shall accept an adoptive home
certification study as a licensing home study if the study has been updated
within the past three months to include the information necessary to determine
whether the home meets foster care licensing standards.
G.This section does not apply if the child is
placed in a home by a means other than by court order and if the home does not
receive compensation from this state or any political subdivision of this state.
H.The division does may
not prohibit a person operating a licensed foster home from
applying for or receiving compensation as a foster home parent due to
employment with this state.
I.The division shall not require a foster parent to
immunize the foster parent's natural or adoptive children as a condition of
foster home licensure.
J.A licensee may modify the renewal date of a
license issued pursuant to this section by submitting an application for
modification of renewal date with the division on a form prescribed by the
division. The licensee must specify the new month of renewal on the
application.The modified renewal date must be prior to before, but not more than six months earlier than, the
existing renewal date. END_STATUTE

