







REFERENCE TITLE: intersection; definition







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2593









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley: Campbell, Gray





AN ACT

amending section
28601, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to traffic regulation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Commercial motor vehicle" means a
motor vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed, used or maintained
to transport passengers or property in the furtherance of a commercial
enterprise, that is a commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201
and that is not exempt from gross weight fees as prescribed in section 285432,
subsection B.
2."Controlled access highway" means a
highway, street or roadway to or from which owners or occupants of abutting
lands and other persons have no legal right of access except at such points
only and in the manner determined by the public authority that has jurisdiction
over the highway, street or roadway.
3."Crosswalk" means:
(a)That part of a roadway at an intersection
included within the prolongations or connections of the lateral lines of the
sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured from the curbs or, in
absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway.
(b)Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere that is distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or
other markings on the surface.
4."Escort vehicle" means a vehicle that
is required pursuant to rules adopted by the department to escort motor
vehicles or combinations of vehicles that require issuance of a permit pursuant
to article 18 or 19 of this chapter for operation on the highways of this
state.
5."Explosives" means any chemical
compound, mixture or device that is commonly used or intended for the purpose
of producing an explosion and that is defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations
part 173.
6."Flammable liquid" means any liquid
that has a flash point of less than one hundred degrees Fahrenheit and that is
defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations section 173.120.
7."Gross weight" means the weight of a
vehicle without a load plus the weight of any load on the vehicle.
8."Intersection":
(a)Means the area embraced within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if none, the lateral boundary lines
of the roadways of two highways that join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling on different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.If a highway
includes two roadways thirty or more feet apart, each crossing of each roadway
of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is a separate
intersection.at a location
controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of the distance between the
separate intersections as described in this subdivision:
(i)if a stop line, yield line or crosswalk is
not designated on the roadway between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway between them are one intersection.
(ii)if a stop line, yield line or
crosswalk is designated on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area
within the crosswalk or beyond the designated stop line or yield line, or both,
is part of the intersection.
(iii)if a crosswalk is designated on
a roadway on the departure from the intersection, the intersection includes the
area extending to the far side of the crosswalk.
(b)does not
include the junction of an alley or driveway with a roadway or highway unless
the roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control
device.
9."License" means any license, temporary
instruction permit or temporary license issued under the laws of this state or
any other state that pertain to the licensing of persons to operate motor
vehicles.
10."Low emission and energy efficient
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been certified by the United States
environmental protection agency administrator in accordance with 23 United
States Code section 166 or that is part of a federally approved pilot program.
11."Motorized wheelchair" means any selfpropelled
wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
12."Official traffic control device"
means any sign, signal, marking or device that is not inconsistent with this
chapter and that is placed or erected by authority of a public body or official
having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
13."Park", if prohibited, means the
standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
14."Photo enforcement system" means a
device substantially consisting of a radar unit or sensor linked to a camera or
other recording device that produces one or more photographs, microphotographs,
videotapes or digital or other recorded images of a vehicle's license plate for
the purpose of identifying violators of articles 3 and 6 of this chapter.
15."Pneumatic tire" means a tire in which
compressed air is designed to support the load.
16."Pole trailer" means a vehicle that is
all of the following:
(a)Without motive power.
(b)Designed to be drawn by another vehicle and
attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole or by being boomed
or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle.
(c)Used ordinarily for transporting long or
irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or structural members capable
generally of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
17."Police officer" means an officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make arrests for violations of
traffic rules or other offenses.
18."Private road or driveway" means a way
or place that is in private ownership and that is used for vehicular travel by
the owner and those persons who have express or implied permission from the
owner but not by other persons.
19."Railroad" means a carrier of persons
or property on cars operated on stationary rails.
20."Railroad sign or signal" means a
sign, signal or device erected by authority of a public body or official or by
a railroad and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or
the approach of a railroad train.
21."Railroad train" means a steam engine
or any electric or other motor that is with or without cars coupled to the
steam engine or electric or other motor and that is operated on rails.
22."Roadway" means that portion of a
highway that is improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel,
exclusive of the berm or shoulder.If a highway includes two or more
separate roadways, roadway refers to any such roadway separately but not to all
such roadways collectively.
23."Safety
zone" means the area or space that is both:
(a)Officially set
apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
(b)Protected or
either marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all
times while set apart as a safety zone.
24."Sidewalk" means that portion of a
street that is between the curb lines or the lateral lines of a roadway and the
adjacent property lines and that is intended for the use of pedestrians.
25."Stop", if required, means complete
cessation from movement.
26."Stop, stopping or standing", if
prohibited, means any stopping or standing of an occupied or unoccupied
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
27."Through highway" means a highway or
portion of a highway at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from
intersecting highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing
and when stop signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
28."Traffic" means pedestrians, ridden or
herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances either singly or together while
using a highway for purposes of travel.
29."Traffic control signal" means a
device, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by which
traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
30."Truck" means a motor vehicle that is
designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of property. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
Section 28601, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, is effective from and after December 31, 2017.

