







REFERENCE TITLE: civil traffic violations; alternative
  service







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2591









Introduced by
Representative
  Ugenti-Rita





AN ACT

amending section
28-1602, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to civil traffic violations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-1602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1602.Photo enforcement violation; service of process; no duty
to identify photo or respond; definitions
A.Notwithstanding any other law, if a person
receives a notice of violation in the mail for a violation of chapter 3,
article 3 or 6 of this title or of a city or town ordinance for excessive speed
or failure to obey a traffic control device that is obtained using a photo
enforcement system, the person does not have to do either of the following:
1.Identify who is in the photo.
2.Respond to the notice of violation.
B.The notice of violation that is described in
subsection A of this section must state the following:
1.The notice is not a court issued document and the
recipient is under no obligation to identify the person or respond to the
notice.
2.Failure to respond to the notice may result in
official service that may result in an additional fee being levied.
C.In addition to any other means authorized by the
Arizona rules of civil procedure, alternative or substitute service of process must be sent
by certified mail with an additional copy by regular mail and a notice must be
posted on the front door of the business or residence and, if present and
accessible, a residence's garage door. Service of the complaint is complete on
filing the mailing receipt and proof of posting in the court having
jurisdiction of the violation.
Notwithstanding any other law, a person's driving privileges may not be
suspended or revoked as a result of a citation that is issued following the
completion of alternative service of process under this subsection.
D.If a law enforcement agency issues a citation as
a result of a photo enforcement system and serves the citation in a manner
other than what is prescribed by section 281593, subsection A, the
agency shall inform the person that there is no obligation to identify the
driver or respond to the citation. Failure to respond to the citation will
result in the probability that the person will be formally served pursuant to
state law and the Arizona rules of civil procedure which will likely result in
the person being required to pay the cost of the service.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Notice of violation" means a notice
issued by a photo enforcement company or municipality that is not a uniform
traffic ticket or complaint.
2."Photo enforcement system" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 28601. END_STATUTE

