







REFERENCE TITLE: presidential preference election;
  appropriation; repeal.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2567









Introduced by
Representative
  Gowan





AN ACT

amending sections
16-168 and 16-193, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 16-241 and
16-242, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 16243, Arizona
Revised Statutes; repealing sections 16-244, 16-245, 16-246, 16-247, 16-248,
16-249 and 16-250, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 16-602, Arizona
revised statutes; appropriating monies; relating to the presidential preference
election.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-168, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-168.Precinct registers; date of preparation; contents; copies;
reports; statewide database; violation; classification
A.By the tenth day preceding the primary and
general elections the county recorder shall prepare from the original
registration forms or from electronic media at least four lists that are
printed or typed on paper, or at least two electronic media poll lists, or any
combination of both, of all qualified electors in each precinct in the county,
and the lists shall be the official precinct registers.
B.The official precinct registers for use at the
polling place shall contain at least the names in full, party preference, date
of registration and residence address of each qualified elector in the
respective precincts. The names shall be in alphabetical order and, in a column
to the left of the names, shall be numbered consecutively beginning with number
1 in each precinct register.
C.For the purposes of transmitting voter
registration information as prescribed by this subsection, electronic media
shall be the principal media. A county or state chairman who is eligible to
receive copies of precinct lists as prescribed by this subsection may request
that the recorder provide a paper copy of the precinct lists. In addition to
preparing the official precinct lists, the county recorder shall provide a
means for electronically reproducing the precinct lists. Unless otherwise
agreed, the county recorder shall deliver one electronic media copy of each
precinct list in the county without charge and on the same day within eight
days after the close of registration for the primary and general elections to
the county chairman and one electronic media copy to the state chairman of each
party that has at least four candidates other than presidential electors
appearing on the ballot in that county at the current election. The secretary
of state shall establish a single format that prescribes the manner and
template in which all county recorders provide this data to the secretary of
state to ensure that the submissions are uniform from all counties in this
state, that all submissions are identical in format, including the level of
detail for voting history, and that information may readily be combined from
two or more counties.The electronic media copies of the precinct
lists that are delivered to the party chairmen shall include for each elector
the following information:
1.Name in full and appropriate title.
2.Party preference.
3.Date of registration.
4.Residence address.
5.Mailing address, if different from residence
address.
6.Zip code.
7.Telephone number if given.
8.Birth year.
9.Occupation if given.
10.Voting history for all elections in the prior
four years and any other information regarding registered voters that the
county recorder or city or town clerk maintains electronically and that is
public information.
11.All data relating to permanent early voters and
nonpermanent early voters, including ballot requests and ballot returns.
D.The names on the precinct lists shall be in
alphabetical order and the precinct lists in their entirety, unless otherwise
agreed, shall be delivered to each county chairman and each state chairman
within ten business days of the close of each date for counting registered
voters prescribed by subsection G of this section other than the primary and
general election registered voter counts in the same format and media as
prescribed by subsection C of this section. During the thirty-three days
immediately preceding an election and on request from a county or state
chairman, the county recorder shall provide at no cost a daily list of persons
who have requested an early ballot and shall provide at no cost a weekly
listing of persons who have returned their early ballots. The recorder shall
provide the daily and weekly information through the Friday preceding the
election. On request from a county chairman or state chairman, the county recorder
of a county with a population of more than eight hundred thousand persons shall
provide at no cost a daily listing of persons who have returned their early
ballots.The daily listing shall be provided Mondays through
Fridays, beginning with the first Monday following the start of early voting
and ending on the Monday before the election.
E.Precinct registers and other lists and
information derived from registration forms may be used only for purposes
relating to a political or political party activity, a political campaign or an
election, for revising election district boundaries or for any other purpose
specifically authorized by law and may not be used for a commercial purpose as
defined in section 39121.03.The sale of registers, lists and
information derived from registration forms to a candidate or a registered
political committee for a use specifically authorized by this subsection does
not constitute use for a commercial purpose. The county recorder, on a request
for an authorized use and within thirty days from receipt of the request, shall
prepare additional copies of an official precinct list and furnish them to any
person requesting them on payment of a fee equal to five cents for each name
appearing on the register for a printed list and one cent for each name for an
electronic data medium, plus the cost of the blank computer disk or computer
software if furnished by the recorder, for each copy so furnished.
F.Any person in possession of a precinct register
or list, in whole or part, or any reproduction of a precinct register or list,
shall not permit the register or list to be used, bought, sold or otherwise
transferred for any purpose except for uses otherwise authorized by this
section. A person in possession of information derived from voter registration
forms or precinct registers shall not distribute, post or otherwise provide
access to any portion of that information through the internet except as
authorized by subsection I of this section. Nothing in this section shall
preclude public inspection of voter registration records at the office of the
county recorder for the purposes prescribed by this section, except that the
month and day of birth date, the social security number or any portion thereof,
the driver license number or nonoperating identification license number, the
Indian census number, the father's name or mother's maiden name, the state or
country of birth and the records containing a voter's signature shall not be
accessible or reproduced by any person other than the voter, by an authorized
government official in the scope of the official's duties, for any purpose by
an entity designated by the secretary of state as a voter registration agency
pursuant to the national voter registration act of 1993 (P.L. 10331; 107
Stat. 77), for signature verification on petitions and candidate filings, for
election purposes and for news gathering purposes by a person engaged in
newspaper, radio, television or reportorial work, or connected with or employed
by a newspaper, radio or television station or pursuant to a court order. A
person who violates this subsection or subsection E of this section is guilty
of a class 6 felony.
G.The county recorder shall count the registered
voters by political party by precinct, legislative district and congressional
district as follows:
1.In even numbered years, the county recorder shall
count all persons who are registered to vote as of:
(a)January 1.
(b)March 1.
(c)The last day on which a person may register to
be eligible to vote in the next primary election.
(d)The last day on which a person may register to
be eligible to vote in the next general election.
(e)The last
day on which a person may register to be eligible to vote in the next
presidential preference election.
2.In odd numbered years, the county recorder shall
count all persons who are registered to vote as of:
(a)January 1.
(b)April 1.
(c)July 1.
(d)October 1.
H.The county recorder shall report the totals to
the secretary of state as soon as is practicable following each of the dates
prescribed in subsection G of this section.The report shall include
completed registration forms returned in accordance with section 16134,
subsection B. The county recorder shall also provide the report in a uniform
electronic computer media format that shall be agreed on between the secretary
of state and all county recorders.The secretary of state shall then
prepare a summary report for the state and shall maintain that report as a
permanent record.
I.The county recorder and the secretary of state
shall protect access to voter registration information in an auditable format
and method specified in the secretary of state's electronic voting system
instructions and procedures manual that is adopted pursuant to section 16452.
J.The secretary of state shall develop and
administer a statewide database of voter registration information that contains
the name and registration information of every registered voter in this
state.The statewide database is a matter of statewide concern and
is not subject to modification or further regulation by a political
subdivision. The database shall include an identifier that is unique for each
individual voter. The database shall provide for access by voter registration
officials and shall allow expedited entry of voter registration information
after it is received by county recorders. As a part of the statewide voter
registration database, county recorders shall provide for the electronic
transmittal of that information to the secretary of state on a real time
basis.The secretary of state shall provide for maintenance of the
database, including provisions regarding removal of ineligible voters that are
consistent with the national voter registration act of 1993 (P.L. 10331;
107 Stat. 77; 42 52 United States Code section 394 20501) and the help America vote act of 2002
(P.L.107252; 116 Stat. 1666; 42 52 United
States Code sections 15301 20901 through 15545
21145), provisions regarding removal of duplicate registrations
and provisions to ensure that eligible voters are not removed in
error.For the purpose of maintaining compliance with the help
America vote act of 2002, each county voter registration system is subject to
approval by the secretary of state for compatibility with the statewide voter
registration database system.
K.Except as provided in subsection L of this
section, for requests for the use of registration forms and access to
information as provided in subsections E and F of this section, the county
recorder shall receive and respond to requests regarding federal, state and
county elections.
L.Beginning January 1, 2008, recognized political
parties shall request precinct lists and access to information as provided in
subsections E and F of this section during the time periods prescribed in
subsection C or D of this section and the county recorder shall receive and
respond to those requests. If the county recorder does not provide the
requested materials within the applicable time prescribed for the county
recorder pursuant to subsection C or D of this section, a recognized political
party may request that the secretary of state provide precinct lists and access
to information as provided in subsections E and F of this section for federal,
state and county elections.The secretary of state shall not provide
access to precinct lists and information for recognized political parties
unless the county recorder has failed or refused to provide the lists and
materials as prescribed by this section. The secretary of state may charge the
county recorder a fee determined by rule for each name or record produced.
M.For municipal registration information in those
municipalities in which the county administers the municipal elections, county
and state party chairmen shall request and obtain voter registration
information and precinct lists from the city or town clerk during the time
periods prescribed in subsection C or D of this section. If the city or town
clerk does not provide that information within the same time prescribed for county
recorders pursuant to subsection C or D of this section, the county or state
party chairman may request and obtain the information from the county
recorder. The county recorder shall provide the municipal voter registration
and precinct lists within the time prescribed in subsection C or D of this
section.
N.The county recorders and the secretary of state
shall not prohibit any person or entity prescribed in subsection C of this
section from distributing a precinct list to any person or entity that is
deemed to be using the precinct list in a lawful manner as prescribed in
subsections E and F of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-193, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-193.Active registered voters; applicability
The terms "registered voters", "persons who are
registered to vote", "registered electors" and "voters
registered" as used in the following sections include only active
registered voters for purposes of the following:
1.Calculating petition signature requirements
pursuant to sections 11133, 16322, 16341, 45415, 45433,
484433 and 484832.
2.Mailing and distributing election-related
notices, pamphlets or ballots pursuant to sections 11137, 15905.01,
16245, 16412,
16461, 16510, 19123, 19-141, 35454, 41563.02,
426109.01, 4217057, 4217107, 48620, 484021,
484236, 485314, 486432 and 486433.
3.Providing voting machines pursuant to section
16-430.
4.Furnishing ballots pursuant to sections 16508
and 48685.
5.Determining qualification for political parties'
continued representation on the ballot pursuant to sections 16244 and section 16804.
6.Choosing political party officers pursuant to
sections 16821 and 16823. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Heading change
The article heading of title 16, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is changed from "PRESIDENTIAL PREFERENCE ELECTION"
to "NATIONAL POLITICAL PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES".
Sec.4.Repeal
Sections 16-241 and 16-242, Arizona Revised
Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.5.Section
16-243, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-243.National convention delegates; political party
presidential nominees; exemption
A.The selection of
delegates to the political party national conventions shall be as provided in
the bylaws of each state party.
B.At the
political party national convention, each delegate to the national convention
shall vote for the party's presidential nominee candidate who received the
greatest number of votes in the presidential preference election until the
candidate is nominated for the office of President of the United States by the
convention, until the candidate releases the delegate from the delegate's
obligation, until a candidate withdraws from the race or until one convention
nominating ballot has been taken. After a candidate is nominated, withdraws
from the race, delegates are released or one ballot is taken, each delegate is
free to vote as the delegate chooses, and no rule may be adopted by a
delegation requiring the delegation to vote as a body or causing the vote of
any delegate to go uncounted or unreported. 
B.On
completion of a political party national convention and the nomination of its
candidates for president and vice-president, the chairman of the national
political party shall provide to the secretary of state not later than
September 1 in the presidential election year the following:
1.Each
nominee's name, residence address and mailing address.
2.The name
of the political party that nominated the nominees.
3.The exact
manner for printing the nominees' names on the ballot pursuant to section
16-311.
C.Section
16-501 does not apply to political party nominees for president and
vice-president. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Sections 16-244,
16-245, 16-246, 16-247, 16-248, 16-249 and 16-250, Arizona Revised Statutes, are
repealed.
Sec.7.Section 16-602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-602.Removal of ballots from ballot boxes; disposition of
ballots folded together or excessive ballots; designated margin; hand counts;
vote count verification committee
A.For any primary, special or general election in
which the votes are cast on an electronic voting machine or tabulator, the
election judge shall compare the number of votes cast as indicated on the
machine or tabulator with the number of votes cast as indicated on the poll
list and the number of provisional ballots cast and that information shall be
noted in a written report prepared and submitted to the officer in charge of
elections along with other tally reports.
B.For each countywide primary, special, and general and presidential preference election, the
county officer in charge of the election shall conduct a hand count at one or more
secure facilities. The hand count shall be conducted as prescribed by this
section and in accordance with hand count procedures established by the
secretary of state in the official instructions and procedures manual adopted
pursuant to section 16452. The hand count is not subject to the live
video requirements of section 16621, subsection C, but the party
representatives who are observing the hand count may bring their own video
cameras in order to record the hand count. The recording shall not interfere
with the conduct of the hand count and the officer in charge of the election
may prohibit from recording or remove from the facility persons who are taking
actions to disrupt the count. The sole act of recording the hand count does
not constitute sufficient grounds for the officer in charge of the election to
prohibit observers from recording or to remove them from the facility. The
hand count shall be conducted in the following order:
1.At least two per cent percent of the precincts in that county, or two precincts,
whichever is greater, shall be selected at random from a pool consisting of
every precinct in that county. The county political party chairman for each
political party that is entitled to continued representation on the state ballot
or the chairman's designee shall conduct the selection of the precincts to be
hand counted. The precincts shall be selected by lot without the use of a
computer, and the order of selection by the county political party chairmen
shall also be by lot.The selection of the precincts shall not begin
until all ballots voted in the precinct polling places have been delivered to
the central counting center.The unofficial vote totals from all
precincts shall be made public before selecting the precincts to be hand
counted. Only the ballots cast in the polling places and ballots from direct
recording electronic machines shall be included in the hand counts conducted
pursuant to this section.Provisional ballots, conditional
provisional ballots and write-in votes shall not be included in the hand counts
and the early ballots shall be grouped separately by the officer in charge of
elections for purposes of a separate manual audit pursuant to subsection F of
this section.
2.The races to be counted on the ballots from the
precincts that were selected pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection for
each primary, special and general election shall include up to five contested
races. After the county recorder or other officer in charge of elections
separates the primary ballots by political party, the races to be counted shall
be determined by selecting by lot without the use of a computer from those
ballots as follows:
(a)For a general election, one statewide ballot
measure, unless there are no measures on the ballot.
(b)One contested statewide race for statewide
office.
(c)One contested race for federal office, either
United States senate or United States house of representatives. If the United
States house of representatives race is selected, the names of the candidates
may vary among the sampled precincts.
(d)One contested race for state legislative office,
either state house of representatives or state senate. In either case, the
names of the candidates may vary among the sampled precincts.
(e)If there are fewer than four contested races
resulting from the selections made pursuant to subdivisions (a) through (d) of this paragraph and if there
are additional contested federal, statewide or legislative races or ballot
measures, additional contested races shall be selected by lot not using a
computer until four races have been selected or until no additional contested
federal, statewide or legislative races or ballot measures are available for
selection.
(f)If there are no contested races as prescribed by
this paragraph, a hand count shall not be conducted for that precinct for that
election.
3.For the
presidential preference election, select by lot two per cent of the polling
places designated and used pursuant to section 16248 and perform the
hand count of those ballots.
4.3.For
the purposes of this section, a write-in candidacy in a race does not
constitute a contested race.
5.4.In
elections in which there are candidates for president, the presidential race
shall be added to the four categories of hand counted races.
6.5.Each
county chairman of a political party that is entitled to continued
representation on the state ballot or the chairman's designee shall select by
lot the individual races to be hand counted pursuant to this section.
7.6.The
county chairman of each political party shall designate and provide the number
of election board members as designated by the county officer in charge of
elections who shall perform the hand count under the supervision of the county
officer in charge of elections. For each precinct that is to be audited, the
county chairmen shall designate at least two board workers who are registered
members of any or no political party to assist with the audit. Any qualified
elector from this state may be a board worker without regard to party
designation.The county election officer shall provide for
compensation for those board workers, not to include travel, meal or lodging
expenses. If there are less than two persons for each audited precinct available
to participate on behalf of each recognized political party, the recorder or
officer in charge of elections, with the approval of at least two county party
chairpersons in the county in which the shortfall occurs, shall substitute
additional individual electors who are provided by any political party from
anywhere in the state without regard to party designation to conduct the hand
count. A county party chairman shall approve only those substitute electors
who are provided by the county chairman's political party. The political
parties shall provide to the recorder or officer in charge of elections in
writing the names of those persons intending to participate in the hand count
at the audited precincts not later than 5:00 p.m. on the Tuesday preceding the
election. If the total number of board workers provided by all parties is less
than four times the number of precincts to be audited, the recorder or officer
in charge of elections shall notify the parties of the shortage by 9:00 a.m. on
the Wednesday preceding the election. The hand count shall not proceed unless
the political parties provide the recorder or officer in charge of elections,
in writing, a sufficient number of persons by 5:00 p.m. on the Thursday
preceding the election and a sufficient number of persons, pursuant to this
paragraph, arrive to perform the hand count.The recorder or officer
in charge of elections may prohibit persons from participating in the hand
count if they are taking actions to disrupt the count or are unable to perform
the duties as assigned. For the hand count to proceed, no more than
seventy-five per cent percent of the persons
performing the hand count shall be from the same political party.
8.7.If a
political party is not represented by a designated chairperson within a county,
the state chairperson for that political party, or a person designated by the
state chairperson, may perform the actions required by the county chairperson
as specified in this section.
C.If the randomly selected races result in a
difference in any race that is less than the designated margin when compared to
the electronic tabulation of those same ballots, the results of the electronic
tabulation constitute the official count for that race. If the randomly
selected races result in a difference in any race that is equal to or greater
than the designated margin when compared to the electronic tabulation of those
same ballots, a second hand count of those same ballots and races shall be
performed. If the second hand count results in a difference in any race that
is less than the designated margin when compared to the electronic tabulation
for those same ballots, the electronic tabulation constitutes the official
count for that race. If the second hand count results in a difference in any
race that is equal to or greater than the designated margin when compared to
the electronic tabulation for those same ballots, the hand count shall be
expanded to include a total of twice the original number of randomly selected
precincts. Those additional precincts shall be selected by lot without the use
of a computer.
D.In any expanded count of randomly selected
precincts, if the randomly selected precinct hand counts result in a difference
in any race that is equal to or greater than the designated margin when
compared to the electronic tabulation of those same ballots, the final hand
count shall be extended to include the entire jurisdiction for that
race.If the jurisdictional boundary for that race would include any
portion of more than one county, the final hand count shall not be extended
into the precincts of that race that are outside of the county that is
conducting the expanded hand count. If the expanded hand count results in a
difference in that race that is less than the designated margin when compared
to the electronic tabulation of those same ballots, the electronic tabulation
constitutes the official count for that race.
E.If a final hand count is performed for an entire
jurisdiction for a race, the final hand count shall be repeated for that race
until a hand count for that race for the entire jurisdiction results in a count
that is identical to one other hand count for that race for the entire
jurisdiction and that hand count constitutes the official count for that race.
F.After the electronic tabulation of early ballots
and at one or more times selected by the chairman of the political parties
entitled to continued representation on the ballot or the chairman's designee,
the chairmen or the chairmen's designees shall randomly select one or more
batches of early ballots that have been tabulated to include at least one batch
from each machine used for tabulating early ballots and those ballots shall be
securely sequestered by the county recorder or officer in charge of elections
along with their unofficial tally reports for a postelection manual audit. The
chairmen or the chairmen's designees shall randomly select from those
sequestered early ballots a number equal to one per cent of the total number of
early ballots cast or five thousand early ballots, whichever is less. From
those randomly selected early ballots, the county officer in charge of
elections shall conduct a manual audit of the same races that are being hand
counted pursuant to subsection B of this section.If the manual audit
of the early ballots results in a difference in any race that is equal to or
greater than the designated margin when compared to the electronically
tabulated results for those same early ballots, the manual audit shall be
repeated for those same early ballots. If the second manual audit results in a
difference in that race that is equal to or greater than the designated margin
when compared to the electronically tabulated results for those same early
ballots, the manual audit shall be expanded only for that race to a number of
additional early ballots equal to one per
cent percent
of the total early ballots cast or an additional five thousand ballots,
whichever is less, to be randomly selected from the batch or batches of
sequestered early ballots.If the expanded early ballot manual audit
results in a difference for that race that is equal to or greater than the
designated margin when compared to any of the earlier manual counts for that
race, the manual counts shall be repeated for that race until a manual count
results in a difference in that race that is less than the designated margin.
If at any point in the manual audit of early ballots the difference between any
manual count of early ballots is less than the designated margin when compared
to the electronic tabulation of those ballots, the electronic tabulation shall
be included in the canvass and no further manual audit of the early ballots
shall be conducted.
G.During any hand count of early ballots, the
county officer in charge of elections and election board workers shall attempt
to determine the intent of the voter in casting the ballot.
H.Notwithstanding any other law, the county officer
in charge of elections shall retain custody of the ballots for purposes of
performing any required hand counts and the officer shall provide for security
for those ballots.
I.The hand counts prescribed by this section shall
begin within twentyfour hours after the closing of the polls and shall
be completed before the canvassing of the election for that county. The
results of those hand counts shall be provided to the secretary of state, who
shall make those results publicly available on the secretary of state's
website.
J.For any county in which a hand count has been
expanded to all precincts in the jurisdiction, the secretary of state shall
make available the escrowed source code for that county to the superior court.
The superior court shall appoint a special master to review the computer
software. The special master shall have expertise in software engineering,
shall not be affiliated with an election software vendor nor with a candidate,
shall sign and be bound by a nondisclosure agreement regarding the source code
itself and shall issue a public report to the court and to the secretary of
state regarding the special master's findings on the reasons for the
discrepancies. The secretary of state shall consider the reports for purposes
of reviewing the certification of that equipment and software for use in this
state.
K.The vote count verification committee is
established in the office of the secretary of state and all of the following
apply:
1.At least thirty days before the 2006 primary
election, the secretary of state shall appoint seven persons to the committee,
no more than three of whom are members of the same political party.
2.Members of the committee shall have expertise in
any two or more of the areas of advanced mathematics, statistics, random
selection methods, systems operations or voting systems.
3.A person is not eligible to be a committee member
if that person has been affiliated with or received any income in the preceding
five years from any person or entity that provides election equipment or
services in this state.
4.The vote count verification committee shall meet
and establish one or more designated margins to be used in reviewing the hand
counting of votes as required pursuant to this section.The
committee shall review and consider revising the designated margins every two
years for use in the applicable elections. The committee shall provide the
designated margins to the secretary of state at least ten days before the
primary election and at least ten days before the general election, and the
secretary of state shall make that information publicly available on the secretary
of state's website.
5.Members of the vote count verification committee
are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of
expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2. The committee is a public
body and its meetings are subject to title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1 and its
reports and records are subject to title 39, chapter 1. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Supplemental appropriation; secretary
of state; presidential preference election; report
A.In addition to
monies appropriated pursuant to Laws 2015, chapter 8, section 95, the sum of
$6,096,767 is appropriated from the state general fund in fiscal year 2015-2016
to the secretary of state for the purpose of reimbursing expenses incurred by
counties for administration of the 2016 presidential preference election.
B.The secretary of state shall reimburse counties
based on the number of active registered voters in that county on January 1,
2016 as follows:
1.For counties with an official active voter
registration total of four hundred fifty thousand persons or more, in the
amount of the actual expenses incurred up to the amount of the estimated cost
that was provided by the county to the secretary of state on or before October
30, 2015 or two dollars fifty cents for each active registered voter in the
county, whichever is less.
2.For counties with an official active voter
registration total of thirty-five thousand persons or more and less than four
hundred fifty thousand persons, in the amount of the actual expenses incurred
up to the amount of the estimated cost that was provided by the county to the
secretary of state on or before October 30, 2015 or three dollars for each
active registered voter, whichever is less.
3.For counties with an official active voter
registration total of less than thirty-five thousand persons, in the amount of
the actual expenses incurred up to the amount of the estimated cost that was
provided by the county to the secretary of state on or before October 30, 2015
or three dollars fifty cents for each active registered voter, whichever is
less.
C.A county shall submit its certified claims to the
secretary of state not later than June 1, 2016.
D.If reimbursing for actual expenses incurred as
prescribed in subsection B of this section, the secretary of state shall not
reimburse counties for the following:
1.Regular pay and associated employer related
expenses for permanent county employees.
2.Maintenance of infrastructure, machinery and equipment.
3.Any expenditure that is not reimbursable as
prescribed by the state of Arizona accounting manual issued by the department
of administration general accounting office and in effect on January 1, 2016.
E.The secretary of state shall submit a report by
October 1, 2016 to the joint legislative budget committee and the office of
strategic planning and budgeting regarding reimbursements made pursuant to this
section.

