







REFERENCE TITLE: sanitary district refunding bonds







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2561









Introduced by
Representative
  Campbell





AN ACT

Amending title
48, chapter 14, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 3; relating to
sanitary district financing.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 48, chapter 14, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 3, to read:
ARTICLE 3.REFUNDING BONDS
START_STATUTE48-2091.Refunding bonds
A.The board
of directors of a sanitary district may issue bonds for the purpose of
refunding any bonds issued pursuant to article 2 of this
chapter.Refunding bonds may be issued only if the total amount of
principal of and interest on the refunding bonds does not exceed the total
amount of remaining principal of and interest on the bonds to be refunded.
b.REfunding
bonds shall be issued and sold and contain such details as the board of
directors prescribes.
c.Interest
on refunding bonds is payable on January 1 and July 1 each year.
D.The due
dates of refunding bonds are January 1 and July 1 in the years they are due. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-2091.01.Use of net proceeds of refunding bonds; authorized
investments
A.Refunding
bonds issued under this article may be:
1.Exchanged
for bonds of at least the same principal amount of the bonds to be refunded.
2.Sold at,
above or below par at a negotiated or public sale.
3.Exchanged
in part and sold in part.
B.If the
refunding bonds are sold, the net proceeds of the refunding bonds with all or
part of the amounts held in the debt service fund for payment of principal of
and interest on the bonds being refunded, amounts in any reserve fund for the
bonds being refunded and other amounts lawfully available may be invested if
the investments and any reinvestment will mature with interest so as to provide
monies to pay the bonds to be refunded when due, or when called for redemption,
plus interest and redemption premiums, if any, at maturity or on an available
redemption date or on an earlier voluntary surrender with the consent of the
board of directors. On receipt, these amounts and investments shall be
deposited in trust with a national banking corporation, or an association
authorized to do trust business in this state, that is a member of the federal
deposit insurance corporation, or any successor.After the deposit,
the bonds being refunded are considered to have been paid and have no further
interest in the assessments for the bonds being refunded.For the
purposes of this subsection, "net proceeds" means the gross proceeds
of the refunding bonds, after the deduction of:
1.All
accrued interest.
2.Costs and
expenses incurred:
(a)In
connection with the authorization and issuance of the refunding bonds.
(b)In
connection with the refunding of the bonds being refunded.
(c)Resulting
from price variation to par.
(d)In the
purchase of obligations for the trust.
(e)In the
distribution of the refunding bonds.
C.The
treasurer of the sanitary district may enter into trust agreements with banking
corporations or associations for the handling, safekeeping and administration
of the amounts and investments that are derived from, or contributed to, the
refunding.
D.Monies
that are invested pursuant to subsection B of this section may be invested and
reinvested at the board's discretion in:
1.Obligations
issued by the United States government or one of its agencies.
2.Obligations
fully guaranteed by the United States government as to principal and interest. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-2091.02.Modified assessment; notice and hearing
A.If
refunding bonds are issued, the board of directors shall file a modified
assessment reflecting the reduction in the assessment.
B.If the
modified assessment does not increase the assessment on any parcel or lot in
the sanitary district, the board may approve the modified assessment without
notice or hearing.If the modification results in an increase in the
assessment to any parcel or lot in the district, notice and, if required, a
hearing must be provided in the manner prescribed by section 48-2062. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-2091.03.Security for and payment of bonds; special fund
A.Refunding
bonds shall be secured by and are payable from the special assessments levied
to pay the bonds being refunded. On the issuance of refunding bonds, the board
of directors shall cause the remaining unpaid installments of the special
assessments to be recalculated and modified so that the amounts to be collected
equal the amounts necessary to repay the refunding bonds.
B.Section
48-2062 does not apply to the recalculation and modification of the assessments
authorized by this subsection. All other provisions of article 2 of this
chapter regarding the collection, payment and enforcement of the assessments of
the bonds being refunded and the validity and priority of the lien of the assessments
for the bonds being refunded continue in force and effect.Except as
provided by this section, the assessments survive the payment or defeasance of
the bonds being refunded and remain in force and effect, securing the refunding
bonds until they are paid in full.The lien of the special
assessments retains the same priority with respect to the refunding bonds as
with the bonds being refunded. The full faith and diligence of the district
are irrevocably pledged for the assessment or reassessment, collection and
payment of the special assessments.
C.Refunding
bonds are payable only from a special fund to be established and collected from
the special assessments. The fund is set apart solely to pay the principal of
and interest on refunding bonds and for no other purpose.All monies
collected from the special assessment shall be deposited in the special fund. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-2091.04.Collection of assessments
The treasurer of the
sanitary district and the county treasurer may provide by agreement for:
1.The
county treasurer to collect the special assessments under this article at the
same time and in the same manner as provided by law for the collection and
enforcement of general ad valorem property taxes.
2.the
payment of the county treasurer's collection expenses directly related to the
special assessment and, if so provided, the levy of the special assessment may
include an amount for compensation of the county treasurer directly related to
the collection of the special assessment.The compensation received
by the county treasurer pursuant to the agreement is governed by section
11-496. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-2091.05.Determination of board of directors
The determination by
the board of directors that the limitations and conditions prescribed by this
article relating to issuing refunding bonds have been met is conclusive in the
absence of fraud or arbitrary and gross abuse of discretion. END_STATUTE

