







REFERENCE TITLE: open meetings; audiovisual recordings







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2583









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
38431.01 and 38431.07, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
public meetings.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-431.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-431.01.Meetings shall be open to the public
A.All meetings of any public body shall be public
meetings and all persons so desiring shall be permitted to attend and listen to
the deliberations and proceedings. All legal action of public bodies shall
occur during a public meeting.
B.All public bodies shall provide for the taking of
written minutes or a and a complete audiovisual recording
of all their meetings, including executive sessions.For meetings
other than executive sessions, such
the minutes or recording shall include, but not be limited to:
1.The date, time and place of the meeting.
2.The members of the public body recorded as either
present or absent.
3.A general description of the matters considered.
4.An accurate description of all legal actions
proposed, discussed or taken,
and the names of members who propose each motion.The minutes shall
also include the names of the persons, as given, making statements or
presenting material to the public body and a reference to the legal action
about which they made statements or presented material.
C.Minutes of executive sessions shall include items
set forth in subsection B, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this section, an accurate
description of all instructions given pursuant to section 38431.03,
subsection A, paragraphs 4, 5 and 7 and such other matters as may be deemed
appropriate by the public body.
D.The minutes or a recording of a meeting shall be available for public
inspection three working days after the meeting except as otherwise
specifically provided by this article. A
public body shall post the audiovisual recording of a meeting on its website
within twentyfour hours after the meeting.
E.A public body of a city or town with a population
of more than two thousand five hundred persons shall:
1.Within three working days after a meeting, except
for subcommittees and advisory committees, post on its website, if applicable, either:
(a)a
statement describing the legal actions taken by the public body of the city or
town during the meeting.
(b)Any
recording of the meeting.
2.Within two working days following approval of the
minutes, post approved minutes of city or town council meetings on its website,
if applicable, except as otherwise specifically provided by this article.
3.Within ten working days after a subcommittee
or advisory committee meeting, post on its website, if
applicable, either:
(a)a
statement describing legal action, if any.
(b)A
recording of the meeting.
F.All or any part of a public meeting of a public
body may be recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder or
camera or any other means of sonic reproduction, provided that there is no
active interference with the conduct of the meeting.
G.The secretary of state for state public bodies,
the city or town clerk for municipal public bodies and the county clerk for all
other local public bodies shall conspicuously post open meeting law materials
prepared and approved by the attorney general on their website. A person
elected or appointed to a public body shall review the open meeting law
materials at least one day before the day that person takes office.
H.A public body may make an open call to the public
during a public meeting, subject to reasonable time, place and manner
restrictions, to allow individuals to address the public body on any issue
within the jurisdiction of the public body.At the conclusion of an
open call to the public, individual members of the public body may respond to
criticism made by those who have addressed the public body, may ask staff to
review a matter or may ask that a matter be put on a future agenda. However,
members of the public body shall not discuss or take legal action on matters
raised during an open call to the public unless the matters are properly
noticed for discussion and legal action.
I.A member of a public body shall not knowingly
direct any staff member to communicate in violation of this article.
J.Any posting required by subsection E of this
section must remain on the applicable website for at least one year after the
date of the posting. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 38-431.07, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-431.07.Violations; enforcement; removal from office; in camera
review
A.Any person affected by an alleged violation of
this article, the attorney general or the county attorney for the county in
which an alleged violation of this article occurred may commence a suit in the
superior court in the county in which the public body ordinarily meets, for the
purpose of requiring compliance with, or the prevention of violations of, this
article, by members of the public body, or to determine the applicability of
this article to matters or legal actions of the public body. For each
violation the court may impose a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred
dollars against a person who violates this article or who knowingly aids,
agrees to aid or attempts to aid another person in violating this article and
order such equitable relief as it deems appropriate in the
circumstances.The civil penalties awarded pursuant to this section
shall be deposited into the general fund of the public body
concerned.The court may also order payment to a successful
plaintiff in a suit brought under this section of the plaintiff's reasonable
attorney fees, by the defendant state, the political subdivision of the state
or the incorporated city or town of which the public body is a part or to which
it reports.If the court determines that a public officer with
intent to deprive the public of information violated any provision of this
article the court may remove the public officer from office and shall assess
the public officer or a person who knowingly aided, agreed to aid or attempted
to aid the public officer in violating this article, or both, with all of the
costs and attorney fees awarded to the plaintiff pursuant to this section.
B.A public body shall not expend public monies to
employ or retain legal counsel to provide legal services or representation to
the public body or any of its officers in any legal action commenced pursuant
to any provisions of this article, unless the public body has authority to make
such expenditure pursuant to other provisions of law and takes a legal action
at a properly noticed open meeting approving such expenditure prior to
incurring any such obligation or indebtedness.
C.In any action brought pursuant to this section
challenging the validity of an executive session, the court may review in
camera the minutes and audiovisual
recording of the executive session, and if the court in its
discretion determines that the minutes and
audiovisual recording are relevant and that justice so demands,
the court may disclose to the parties or admit in evidence part or all of the
minutes and audiovisual recording.END_STATUTE

