







REFERENCE TITLE: veterans court; establishment; mandatory
  referrals







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2554









Introduced by
Representative
  Lawrence





AN ACT

amending title
12, chapter 1, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 12137;
amending sections 22601 and 281383, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to veterans court.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 12, chapter 1, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 12-137, to read:
START_STATUTE12-137.Veterans court; establishment; eligibility for referral;
mandatory referral
A.The
presiding judge of the superior court in each county shall establish a veterans
court to adjudicate cases filed in the superior court, and, if a veterans court
is not established pursuant to section 22601, to adjudicate cases filed
in a justice court or a municipal court in the county.
B.the
presiding judge of the superior court shall establish the eligibility criteria
for REFERRAL to the veterans court. The criteria must include a mandatory
REFERRAL requirement for any case that is filed against a veteran and that
alleges only a violation of section 281383, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2
or 4.
C.A judge who has jurisdiction over a case that
meets the eligibility criteria may refer the case to the veterans court and
shall refer a case that qualifies for mandatory referral pursuant to subsection
B of this section to the veterans court.
D.The originating court shall notify the
prosecutor of any criminal case referred to the veterans court.
Sec.2.Section 22-601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-601.Homeless, veterans and mental health courts;
establishment; eligibility for referral; mandatory referral
A.The presiding judge of
the superior court in each county may establish a homeless court, veterans
court and mental health court to adjudicate cases filed in a justice court or a
municipal court in the county.
B.The presiding judge of
the superior court shall establish the eligibility criteria for referral to the
homeless court, veterans court or mental health court. The criteria for a veterans court must include a mandatory
referral requirement for any case that is filed against a veteran and that
alleges only a violation of section 281383, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2
or 4.
C.A justice of the peace
or municipal court judge who has jurisdiction over a case that meets the
eligibility criteria may refer the case to the homeless court, veterans court
or mental health court and shall refer
a case that qualifies for mandatory referral pursuant to subsection B of this
section to the veterans court.
D.The originating court
shall notify the prosecutor of any criminal case referred to the homeless
court, veterans court or mental health court.
Sec.3.Section
28-1383, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1383.Aggravated driving or actual physical control while under
the influence; violation; classification; definition
A.A person is guilty
of aggravated driving or actual physical control while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs if the person does any of the following:
1.Commits a violation of section 281381,
section 281382 or this section while the person's driver license or
privilege to drive is suspended, canceled, revoked or refused or while a
restriction is placed on the person's driver license or privilege to drive as a
result of violating section 281381 or 281382 or under section 281385.
2.Within a period of eighty-four months commits a
third or subsequent violation of section 281381, section 281382
or this section or is convicted of a violation of section 281381,
section 281382 or this section and has previously been convicted of any
combination of convictions of section 281381, section 281382 or
this section or acts in another jurisdiction that if committed in this state
would be a violation of section 281381, section 281382 or this
section.
3.While a person under fifteen years of age is in
the vehicle, commits a violation of either:
(a)Section 281381.
(b)Section 281382.
4.While the person is ordered by the court or
required pursuant to section 283319 by the department to equip any motor
vehicle the person operates with a certified ignition interlock device, commits
a violation of section 281381, section 281382 or this section.
B.The dates of the commission of the offenses are
the determining factor in applying the eighty-four month provision provided in
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section regardless of the sequence in which
the offenses were committed.For the purposes of this section, a
third or subsequent violation for which a conviction occurs does not include a
conviction for an offense arising out of the same series of acts. The time
that a probationer is found to be on absconder status or the time that a person
is incarcerated in any state, federal, county or city jail or correctional
facility is excluded when determining the eighty-four month period provided in subsection
A, paragraph 2 and subsection E of this section.
C.The notice to a person of the suspension,
cancellation, revocation or refusal of a driver license or privilege to drive
is effective as provided in section 283318 or pursuant to the laws of the
state issuing the license.
D.A person is not eligible for probation, pardon,
commutation or suspension of sentence or release on any other basis until the
person has served not less than four months in prison if the person is
convicted under either of the following:
1.Subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section.
2.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section and
within an eighty-four month period has been convicted of two prior violations
of section 281381, section 281382 or this section, or any combination
of those sections, or acts in another jurisdiction that if committed in this
state would be a violation of section 281381, section 281382 or
this section.
E.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section and who within an eighty-four month period has been
convicted of three or more prior violations of section 281381, section
281382 or this section, or any combination of those sections, or acts in
another jurisdiction that if committed in this state would be a violation of
section 281381, section 281382 or this section is not eligible
for probation, pardon, commutation or suspension of sentence or release on any
other basis until the person has served not less than eight months in prison.
F.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 3, subdivision (a) of this section shall serve at least the minimum
term of incarceration required pursuant to section 281381.
G.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 3, subdivision (b) of this section shall serve at least the minimum
term of incarceration required pursuant to section 281382.
H.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section shall attend and complete alcohol or other drug screening, education or
treatment from an approved facility.If the person fails to comply
with this subsection and is placed on probation, in addition to the provisions
of section 13901 the court may order that the person be incarcerated as
a term of probation as follows:
1.For a person sentenced pursuant to subsection D
of this section, for an individual period of not more than four months and a
total period of not more than one year.
2.For a person sentenced pursuant to subsection E
of this section, for an individual period of not more than eight months and a
total period of not more than two years.
I.The time that a person spends in custody pursuant
to subsection H of this section shall not be counted towards the sentence
imposed if the person's probation is revoked and the person is sentenced to prison
after revocation of probation.
J.On a conviction for a violation of this section,
the court:
1.Shall report the conviction to the
department.On receipt of the report, the department shall revoke
the driving privilege of the person.The department shall not issue
the person a new driver license within one year of the date of the conviction
and shall require the person to equip any motor vehicle the person operates
with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.
In addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the
person operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twentyfour
months beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who
operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this
paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
2.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of two hundred
fifty dollars.If the conviction occurred in the superior court or a
justice court, the court shall transmit the monies received pursuant to this
paragraph to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal
court, the court shall transmit the monies received pursuant to this paragraph
to the city treasurer. The city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies
received to the state treasurer.The state treasurer shall deposit
the monies received in the driving under the influence abatement fund
established by section 281304. Any fine imposed for a violation of this
section and any assessments, restitution and incarceration costs shall be paid
before the assessment prescribed in this paragraph.
3.Shall order the person to pay a fine of not less
than seven hundred fifty dollars.
4.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of one thousand
five hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the prison
construction and operations fund established by section 411651.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer.If the conviction occurred in a municipal
court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The
city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state
treasurer.
5.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of one thousand
five hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the public
safety equipment fund established by section 41-1723.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction
occurred in the superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the
assessed monies to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a
municipal court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city
treasurer.The city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies
received to the state treasurer.
K.After completing the period of suspension required
by section 281385, a person whose driving privilege is revoked for a
violation of subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section may apply to the
department for a special ignition interlock restricted driver license pursuant
to section 281401.
L.Aggravated driving or actual physical control
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs committed under:
1.Subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 4 of this section
is a class 4 felony.
2.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is a
class 6 felony.
M.Notwithstanding
subsections D and E of this section, the court may defer all mandatory
incarceration requirements for a defendant who is under the jurisdiction of a
veterans court and who is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the
defendant's probation or supervision. The deferment is permanent after the
defendant successfully completes all of the defendant's terms and conditions of
probation or supervision.
M.N.For
the purposes of this section, "suspension, cancellation, revocation or refusal"
means any suspension, cancellation, revocation or refusal. END_STATUTE

