







REFERENCE TITLE: minimum wage; adjustment; uniformity







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2545









Introduced by
Representative
  Larkin





AN ACT

repealing section
23362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by laws 1997, chapter 51,
section 1; Amending sections 23363 and 23-364, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to the minimum wage.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Subject to the requirements of article IV, part 1, section 1,
Constitution of Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by
Laws 1997, chapter 51, section 1, is repealed.
Sec.2.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-363, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-363.Minimum wage
A.Employers shall pay employees no less than the
minimum wage, which shall be six dollars and seventy-five cents ($6.75) an hour
beginning on January 1, 2007.
B.The minimum wage shall be increased on January 1,
2008 and on January 1 of successive years by the increase in the cost of
living. The increase in the cost of living shall be measured by the percentage
increase as of August of the immediately preceding year over the level as of
August of the previous year of the consumer price index (all urban consumers, U.S. United States city average for all items) or
its successor index as published by the U.S.
United States department
of labor or its successor agency, with the amount of the minimum wage increase
rounded to the nearest multiple of five cents.
C.From and after December 31, 2016 and each
fourth year thereafter, the minimum wage shall be adjusted to the minimum
hourly rate necessary for a person who works for minimum wage for forty hours
per week, fiftytwo weeks per year to earn an annual income in an amount
that is at least fifteen percent more than the federal poverty guideline for a
family of four with two children who are under eighteen years of age.
D.The minimum wage shall be adjusted every four
years using the formula provided in subsection C of this section and the
federal poverty guidelines established for the year in which the minimum wage
is being adjusted. If the adjustment would result in a lower minimum wage than
the minimum wage in effect at the time of the adjustment, the adjustment does
not go into effect.
C.E.For any employee
who customarily and regularly receives tips or gratuities from patrons or
others, the employer may pay a wage up to $3.00 per hour less than the minimum
wage if the employer can establish by its the employer's records of
charged tips or by the employee's declaration for federal insurance
contributions act (FICA) purposes that for each week, when adding tips received
to wages paid, the employee received not less than the minimum wage for all
hours worked. Compliance with this provision subsection will be determined
by averaging tips received by the employee over the course of the employer's
payroll period or any other period selected by the employer that complies with
regulations adopted by the commission. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-364, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-364.Enforcement; civil penalties
A.The commission is authorized to enforce and
implement this article and may promulgate regulations consistent with this
article to do so.
B.No employer or other person shall discharge or
take any other adverse action against any person in retaliation for asserting
any claim or right under this article, for assisting any other person in doing
so, or for informing any person about their rights. Taking adverse action
against a person within ninety days of after a person's engaging in
the foregoing activities shall raise a presumption that such action was
retaliation, which may be rebutted by clear and convincing evidence that such
action was taken for other permissible reasons.
C.Any person or organization may file an
administrative complaint with the commission charging that an employer has
violated this article as to any employee or other person. When the commission
receives a complaint, the commission may review records regarding all employees
at the employer's worksite in order to protect the identity of any employee
identified in the complaint and to determine whether a pattern of violations
has occurred. The name of any employee identified in a complaint to the
commission shall be kept confidential as long as possible. Where the commission
determines that an employee's name must be disclosed in order to investigate a
complaint further, it may so do only with the employee's consent.
D.Employers shall post notices in the workplace, in
such format specified by the commission, notifying employees of their rights
under this article. Employers shall provide their business name, address, and
telephone number in writing to employees upon hire. Employers shall maintain
payroll records showing the hours worked for each day worked, and the wages
paid to all employees for a period of four years. Failure to do so shall raise
a rebuttable presumption that the employer did not pay the required minimum
wage rate.The commission may by regulation reduce or waive the
recordkeeping and posting requirements herein for any categories of small
employers whom it finds would be unreasonably burdened by such requirements.
Employers shall permit the commission or a law enforcement officer to inspect
and copy payroll or other business records, shall permit them to interview
employees away from the worksite, and shall not hinder any investigation. Such
information provided shall keep confidential except as is required to prosecute
violations of this article. Employers shall permit an employee or his or her
designated representative to inspect and copy payroll records pertaining to
that employee.
E.A civil action to enforce this article may be
maintained in a court of competent jurisdiction by a law enforcement officer or
by any private party injured by a violation of this article.
F.Any employer who violates recordkeeping, posting,
or other requirements that the commission may establish under this article
shall be subject to a civil penalty of at least $250 two
hundred fifty dollars for a first violation, and at least $1000 one thousand dollars for each subsequent or
willful violation and may, if the commission or court determines appropriate,
be subject to special monitoring and inspections.
G.Any employer who fails to pay the wages required
under this article shall be required to pay the employee the balance of the
wages owed, including interest thereon, and an additional amount equal to twice
the underpaid wages. Any employer who retaliates against an employee or other
person in violation of this article shall be required to pay the employee an
amount set by the commission or a court sufficient to compensate the employee
and deter future violations, but not less than one hundred fifty dollars for
each day that the violation continued or until legal judgment is final. The
commission and the courts shall have the authority to order payment of such
unpaid wages, other amounts, and civil penalties and to order any other
appropriate legal or equitable relief for violations of this article. Civil
penalties shall be retained by the agency that recovered them and used to
finance activities to enforce this article. A prevailing plaintiff shall be
entitled to reasonable attorney's attorney fees and costs of
suit.
H.A civil action to enforce this article may be
commenced no later than two years after a violation last occurs, or three years
in the case of a willful violation, and may encompass all violations that
occurred as part of a continuing course of employer conduct regardless of their
date.The statute of limitations shall be tolled during any
investigation of an employer by the commission or other law enforcement
officer, but such investigation shall not bar a person from bringing a civil
action under this article. No verbal or written agreement or employment
contract may waive any rights under this article.
I.The legislature may by statute raise the minimum
wage established under this article, extend coverage, or increase penalties. A county, city,
or town may by ordinance regulate minimum wages and benefits within its
geographic boundaries but may not provide for a minimum wage lower higher
than that prescribed in this article. State agencies, counties,
cities, towns and other political subdivisions of the state may consider
violations of this article in determining whether employers may receive or
renew public contracts, financial assistance or licenses. This article shall be
liberally construed in favor of its purposes and shall not limit the authority
of the legislature or any other body to adopt any law or policy that requires
payment of higher or supplemental wages or benefits, or that extends such
protections to employers or employees not covered by this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Legislative findings
The
legislature finds and declares the following:
1.A
fulltime employee who earns the Arizona minimum wage earns an income
below the federal poverty threshold for a family of four, consisting of two
adults and two children.
2.In Maricopa county
alone, the average fair market rent for a onebedroom apartment is more
than fiftytwo percent of the monthly income of a fulltime
employee earning the current Arizona minimum wage.In comparison,
the generally accepted definition of affordability is for a household to pay
not more than thirty percent of its income on housing.
3.The Arizona minimum
wage should be adjusted at least every four years so that a person working for
minimum wage may earn an annual income that is at least fifteen percent higher
than the federal poverty threshold for a family of four.
4.The Arizona minimum
wage should be set at a level sufficient enough to allow two fulltime
minimum wage employees to earn an income above the Arizona fair market housing
average.
5.Increasing the wages
of employees will benefit the overall economy of this state as working families
will have more discretionary income to spend in the broader Arizona
marketplace, increasing demand for products and services and fomenting overall
economic activity and prosperity throughout the state.
6.A fair day's pay for
a fair day's work is a fundamental element of American values and establishing
a calculation of the Arizona minimum wage based on the federal poverty
threshold for a family of four is consistent with these values.
7.The Congress of the
United States, any Indian tribe or any city, town or county in this state has
the authority to establish a higher minimum wage requirement than that
established in this act.
Sec.5.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Arizona Living Wage Act of
2016".
Sec.6.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws 1997,
chapter 51, section 1 and repealed by this act and sections 23363 and
23-364, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, are effective only on
the affirmative vote of at least threefourths of the members of each
house of the legislature.

