







REFERENCE TITLE: G&F; penalties; law enforcement;
  omnibus







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2575









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cobb, Borrelli





AN ACT

amending sections
5331, 17314, 17315, 17320 and 17340, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona game and fish department.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-331, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-331.Personal flotation devices; exceptions
A.All watercraft, except sailboards, shall carry
United States coast guard approved personal flotation devices of the type and
category prescribed by regulations of the commission.There shall be
one such device in good and serviceable condition for each person on board and
so placed as to be readily accessible for immediate use.
B.Any person who is being towed behind a watercraft shall wear a buoyant belt or wearable personal flotation device while being
towed except for a performer who is engaged
in a professional exhibition.
C.A child who
is twelve years of age or under and who is on board a watercraft shall wear a properly fitting United States
coast guard approved type I, II or III
wearable personal
flotation device whenever the watercraft is underway.
D.The
provisions of Subsection C shall
of this section does not
apply to small passenger vessels that are not for hire on navigable waters,
that maintain a coast guard certificate of inspection and that are being
operated by United States coast guard licensed pilots within a distance of onefourth
mile from the nearest shore as a means of transporting passengers and when the
duration of time the vessel is underway on the water does not exceed ten
minutes. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 17-314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-314.Civil penalty for unlawfully taking, wounding, killing,
possessing or feeding wildlife; recovery of civil penalty
A.The commission or any officer charged with enforcement of the laws relating
to game and fish, if so directed by the commission, may bring a civil action in
the name of the state may
impose a civil penalty against any person unlawfully taking,
wounding or killing, or unlawfully in possession of, any of the following
wildlife, or part thereof, and seek
or any person convicted of unlawfully
feeding wildlife pursuant to section 132927 that results in the lethal
removal of any of the following wildlife as directed by the department to
recover the following minimum sums as
damage:
1.For each turkey or javelina $500.00
2.For each bear, mountain lion, pronghorn (antelope)
or deer, other than
trophy $1,500.00
3.For each elk or eagle, other than trophy or
endangered species $2,500.00
4.For each predatory, fur-bearing or nongame animal $
250.00
5.For each small game or aquatic wildlife animal $
50.00
6.For each trophy or endangered species animal $8,000.00
B.the commission may bring a civil action in
the name of this state to enforce the civil penalty. No The civil penalty, or a verdict or judgment recovered by the state in such action to enforce the civil penalty, shall not be for less than the sum fixed in this section. The
minimum sum that the commission may seek
to recover as damages
from a person pursuant to this section may be doubled for a second violation, verdict or judgment
and tripled for a third violation, verdict
or judgment.The
action for damages to enforce the civil penalty may be joined with an action for
possession, and recovery had for the
possession as well as the damages civil penalty.
C.The pendency or determination of an action for damages to enforce the civil penalty or for payment of the civil penalty or a judgment, or the
pendency or determination of a criminal prosecution for the same taking,
wounding, killing or possession, is not a bar to the other, nor does either
affect the right of seizure under any other provision of the laws relating to
game and fish.
D.All monies recovered pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the wildlife theft prevention fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 17-315, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-315.Wildlife theft prevention fund; authorized expenditures; exemption
A.A
The wildlife theft
prevention fund is established consisting of:
1.Monies received from damage assessments civil penalties pursuant to section 17314.
2.Money received from donations to the fund.
3.Monies appropriated by the legislature for the
purposes provided in this article.
4.Monies received as fines, forfeitures and
penalties collected for violations of this title.
B. Monies in the wildlife theft prevention fund
shall be expended only for the following purposes:
1.The financing of reward payments to persons,
other than peace officers, game and fish department personnel and members of
their immediate families, who are responsible
for information leading to the arrest of any person for unlawfully taking,
wounding or killing, possessing, transporting or selling wildlife and attendant acts of
vandalism.The commission shall establish the schedule of rewards to
be paid for information received,
and payment shall be made from monies available for this purpose.
2.The financing of a statewide telephone reporting
system under the name of "operation game thief", which shall be
established by the director under the guidance of the commission.
3.The promotion of the public recognition and
awareness of the wildlife theft prevention program.
4.Investigations of the unlawful commercial taking, possession or use of wildlife.
5.Investigations
of fraud related to licenses, permits, tags or stamps.
C.The wildlife theft prevention fund shall be
expended in conformity with the laws governing state financial
operations.Balances remaining at the end of the fiscal year are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 17-320, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-320.Jaguar; protection; violation; classification; civil
liability; exception
A.Notwithstanding section 17239 or any other
provision of this title, if the secretary of the interior publishes in the
federal register a determination for the removal of jaguar (felis onca) from
the list as required under section 4(c) of the endangered species act of 1973,
as amended, (P.L. 93205; 87 Stat. 884; 16 United States Code sections
1531 through 1544):
1.It is unlawful for a person to knowingly kill,
wound or possess a jaguar or any part thereof.
2.A person who unlawfully kills, wounds or
possesses a jaguar or any part thereof:
(a)Is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
(b)Is liable for civil damages of not more than
seventytwo thousand five hundred dollars for each violation pursuant to procedures set forth in section 17314.
B.Subsection A of this section does not apply to:
1.A jaguar or parts of a jaguar that were lawfully
possessed under state and federal law before August 21, 1997.
2.Any person who kills or wounds a jaguar, if it
can be shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the person committed an
act based on a good faith belief that the person was acting to protect himself,
a member of the person's family or any other individual from bodily harm from a
jaguar.
C.A person shall notify the department within five
days after killing or wounding a jaguar under subsection B, paragraph 2 of this
section.A jaguar that is killed
or wounded pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section shall not be
retained, sold or removed from the site without authorization from the
department. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 17-340, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-340.Revocation, suspension and denial of
privilege of taking wildlife; notice; violation; classification
A.On conviction or after adjudication as a
delinquent juvenile as defined in section 8201 and in addition to other
penalties prescribed by this title, the commission, after a public hearing, may
revoke or suspend a license issued to any person under this title and deny the
person the right to secure another license to take or possess wildlife for a
period of not to exceed five years for:
1.Unlawful taking, unlawful selling, unlawful
offering for sale, unlawful bartering or unlawful possession of wildlife.
2.Careless use of firearms that has resulted in the
injury or death of any person.
3.Destroying, injuring or molesting livestock, or
damaging or destroying growing crops, personal property, notices or signboards,
or other improvements while hunting, trapping or fishing.
4.Littering public hunting or fishing areas while
taking wildlife.
5.Knowingly allowing another person to use the
person's big game tag, except as provided by section 17332, subsection
D.
6.A violation of section 17303, 17304,
17316 or 17341 or section 17362, subsection A.
7.A violation of section 17-309, subsection A,
paragraph 5 involving a waste of edible portions other than meat damaged due to
the method of taking as follows:
(a)Upland game birds, migratory game birds and wild
turkey: breast.
(b)Deer, elk, pronghorn (antelope), bighorn sheep,
bison (buffalo) and peccary (javelina): hind quarters, front quarters and
loins.
(c)Game fish: fillets of the fish.
8.A violation of section 17-309, subsection A,
paragraph 1 involving any unlawful use of aircraft to take, assist in taking,
harass, chase, drive, locate or assist in locating wildlife.
B.On conviction or after adjudication as a
delinquent juvenile and in addition to any other penalties prescribed by this
title:
1.For a first conviction or a first adjudication as
a delinquent juvenile, for unlawfully taking or wounding wildlife at any time
or place, the commission, after a public hearing, may revoke, suspend or deny a
person's privilege to take wildlife for a period of up to five years.
2.For a second conviction or a second adjudication
as a delinquent juvenile, for unlawfully taking or wounding wildlife at any
time or place, the commission, after a public hearing, may revoke, suspend or
deny a person's privilege to take wildlife for a period of up to ten years.
3.For a third conviction or a third adjudication as
a delinquent juvenile, for unlawfully taking or wounding wildlife at any time
or place, the commission, after a public hearing, may revoke, suspend or deny a
person's privilege to take wildlife permanently.
C.A In accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10
and notwithstanding subsection A of this section, any person who is
assessed civil damages against
whom the
commission imposes a civil penalty under section 17314 shall not apply for or for the unlawful taking or possession of wildlife may
be denied the right to obtain a license during
the pendency of an action for damages, while measures are pursued to collect
damages or prior to take
wildlife until the person has
made full payment of damages the civil penalty.
D.On receiving a report from the licensing
authority of a state that is a party to the wildlife violator compact, adopted
under chapter 5 of this title, that a resident of this state has failed to
comply with the terms of a wildlife citation, the commission, after a public
hearing, may suspend any license issued under this title to take wildlife until
the licensing authority furnishes satisfactory evidence of compliance with the
terms of the wildlife citation.
E.In carrying out this section the director shall
notify the licensee, within one hundred eighty days after conviction, to appear
and show cause why the license should not be revoked, suspended or denied. The
notice may be served personally or by certified mail sent to the address
appearing on the license.
F.The commission shall furnish to license dealers
the names and addresses of persons whose licenses have been revoked or
suspended, and the periods for which they have been denied the right to secure
licenses.
G.The commission may use the services of the office
of administrative hearings to conduct hearings and to make recommendations to
the commission pursuant to this section.
H.Except for a person who takes or possesses wildlife
while under permanent revocation, a person who takes wildlife in this state, or
attempts to obtain a license to take wildlife, at a time when the person's
privilege to do so is suspended, revoked or denied under this section is guilty
of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE

