







REFERENCE TITLE: TPT; municipalities; customer refund
  claims







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2598









Introduced by
Representative
  Olson





AN ACT

Amending Sections
421101.01 and 421118, Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending Title
42, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona revised statutes, by adding section 421118.01;
amending sections 421119, 421123, 421251, 421253,
421254, 422003, 422064 and 425008, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 42, chapter 6, article 1, arizona revised statutes, by
adding section 426009; amending section 441263, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to taxes.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-1101.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1101.01.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Customer"
means a person that purchases goods or services from any vendor.
1.2."Electronic return
preparer" means a person who for compensation prepares an electronic
return, statement or other document or prepares a substantial portion of an
electronic return, statement or other document or transforms a paper version of
a completed return, statement or other document to an electronic version of the
same return, statement or other document for filing with the department.
Electronic return preparer does not include a person who for compensation
provides only computational and informational software used to prepare and file
taxes.
2.3."Electronic return
transmitter" means a person who receives the electronic return, statement
or other document from a taxpayer or electronic return preparer for ultimate
transmittal to the department.
3.4."Return preparer": 
(a)Means any person
that prepares a return, statement or other document or substantial portion of a
return, statement or other document for compensation, regardless of the media
used to prepare the return.
(b)Does not include a person because the person:
(i)Furnishes typing, reproducing or other
mechanical assistance.
(ii)Prepares a return, statement or other document
for an employer and is regularly and continuously employed by the employer.
(iii)Prepares as a fiduciary a return, statement or
other document for any person.
(iv)Prepares a claim for refund or a return,
statement or other document for a taxpayer in response to any notice of
deficiency issued to the taxpayer or in response to any waiver of restriction
after the commencement of an audit of the taxpayer.
(v)Furnishes computational and informational
software used by the taxpayer to prepare the taxpayer's return, statement or
other document.
(vi)Only prepares payment documents for payment
made to the department pursuant to section 421129.
4.5."Return,
statement or other document" means any return, claim for refund, statement
or other document that is required or authorized to be filed with the
department pursuant to this title or title 43, including returns for any
political subdivision of this state for which the department collects taxes.
6."Vendor"
means any taxpayer that either is liable for filing and remitting transaction
privilege tax to the department under any tax classification pursuant to
chapter 5, article 2 of this title or is registered with the department to
remit use tax to the department on behalf of its purchasers. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-1118, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1118.Refunds, credits, offsets and abatements
A.If the department determines that any amount of
tax, penalty or interest has been paid in excess of the amount actually due,
the department shall credit the excess amount against any tax administered
pursuant to this article, including any penalty, interest or other amounts owed
by the taxpayer to the department.If it is determined that the
amount cannot be credited against a tax or installment of taxes due from the
taxpayer, the department may:
1.Refund the entire amount of tax, interest and
penalty, in a lump sum or in not more than five annual installments, to the
taxpayer from whom it was collected.
2.Issue to the taxpayer a credit voucher for the
entire amount of tax, interest and penalty collected, to be carried forward and
applied against future tax liabilities until exhausted.
3.Refund part, and issue a credit voucher for the
balance, of the tax, interest and penalties as provided in paragraphs 1 and 2
of this subsection.
B.In the
case of a transaction privilege tax, a vendor may claim a refund under this
chapter except as provided in section 42-1118.01 or subsection K of this
section.
B.C.If
the total amount withheld from income under section 43401 exceeds the
amount of the tax on the employee's entire taxable income as computed under
title 43, the department shall refund the amount of the excess deducted without
requiring a filing of a refund claim as provided in this section. The failure
of the department to make the refund does not limit the right of the taxpayer
to file a claim for a refund pursuant to this section if the claim is not
barred under section 421106.The department shall not refund
amounts less than one dollar unless specifically requested by the taxpayer at
the time the return or claim for refund is filed.
C.D.Any
overpayment that may result from withholdings or estimates pursuant to section
43401, 43581 or 43582 shall not be credited or refunded
unless an Arizona income tax return has been filed for the tax year for which
the withholdings or estimates were made.
D.E.The
department shall give a vendor who has a duty to collect use tax pursuant to
chapter 5, article 4 of this title and who has not collected that tax full
credit or offset for any use tax, interest and penalty paid to the department
by the purchaser when issuing a determination of a deficiency pursuant to
section 421108.This credit or offset shall be computed from
the date of the use tax payment by the purchaser.If the purchaser
has been audited by the department for use tax for the period of the purchase,
the purchaser is considered to have paid the use tax to the
department.For other purchases, the vendor may submit an
affirmation by a purchaser on a form prescribed by the department that use tax
was paid on the purchase.A fully completed certificate, taken in
good faith by the vendor, constitutes proof that the vendor is entitled to this
credit or offset.The department may require a purchaser who has
submitted the certificate to establish the accuracy and completeness of the
information contained in the certificate. If the purchaser cannot establish
the accuracy and completeness of the information, the purchaser is liable for a
penalty equal to the amount of tax and interest that would have been paid by
the seller and for the additional penalties pursuant to section 421125.Payment
of the penalty relieves the purchaser of any responsibility for paying the use
tax.The department may require this proof and may assess the
purchaser within the later of the period of limitations set forth in section 421104
or one year from the date the notice of proposed deficiency is issued to the
vendor if the purchaser does not establish the accuracy of the information
contained in the certificate.
E.F.Each
claim for refund shall be filed with the department in writing and shall
identify the claimant by name, address and tax identification
number.Each claim shall provide the amount of refund requested, the
specific tax period involved and the specific grounds on which the claim is
founded.Refunds are subject to setoff for debts pursuant to section
421122.
F.G.A
motor vehicle manufacturer that repurchases a vehicle pursuant to section 441263
or for reasons of consumer satisfaction may apply for a refund of the taxes
paid under chapter 5 of this title if that manufacturer has refunded the amount
of tax to the consumer. A refund is allowed under this subsection only if the
manufacturer provides satisfactory proof to the department that tax amounts
attributed to the sale of the vehicle were collected from the consumer and that
the manufacturer refunded an amount of tax to the consumer. Any refund
provided under this subsection is in lieu of any refund on the vehicle that the
dealer may otherwise be entitled to receive. A manufacturer must apply for a
refund under this subsection within four years after repurchasing the
vehicle.For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Consumer" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 441261.
2."Motor vehicle manufacturer" means a
corporation engaged in the business of producing passenger cars, trucks and
multipurpose passenger vehicles as described in 49 Code of Federal Regulations
section 571.3.
3."Satisfactory proof" includes copies of
checks and a purchase or lease agreement that lists the vehicle identification
number and that itemizes the amount that was collected as tax from the
consumer.
G.H.The
department shall not imprint the full social security number or other taxpayer
identifier used pursuant to section 421105 on any taxpayer refund check,
voucher or other credit documentation issued to the taxpayer under this
section.
H.I.If
any amount has been erroneously determined to be due from any person but not
yet collected, the department shall cancel the amount or amounts on its
records.
I.J.If,
with or after the filing of a protest or an appeal with the department, the
state board of tax appeals or the court, a taxpayer pays the tax protested or
appealed before the department, board or court acts upon on
the protest or the appeal, such body shall treat the protest or the appeal as a
claim for refund or an appeal from the denial of a claim for refund filed under
this section.
K.Notwithstanding
any law to the contrary, the department may deny a claim for refund of
transaction privilege tax filed by a vendor that arises from the same
transaction or transactions for which the department has paid a claim filed
under section 421118.01. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 42, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-1118.01, to read:
START_STATUTE42-1118.01.Customer refund claims; transaction privilege or use tax;
assignment by vendor; payment or denial of claim
A.A customer who paid to a vendor an amount that
the vendor passed on to the customer equal to the vendor's transaction
privilege tax or who paid a use tax to a vendor may file a claim pursuant to
this section if the vendor assigns under subsection B or C of this section to
the customer its right to claim an amount equal to any tax and interest that
the vendor could otherwise claim as a refund under section 42-1118.
B.Any claim
by a customer under this section is in lieu of the vendor claiming a refund for
the underlying tax under section 42-1118. If a claim is paid under this section,
only the customer and not the vendor may be held liable for any amount
erroneously paid or credited to the customer. a Customer may file a claim
under this section as follows:
1.Through
an affirmative assignment of rights by the vendor to the customer using a form
and in the manner prescribed by the department.The form prescribed
by the department shall require all of the following:
(a)The
vendor's transaction privilege tax license number or use tax registration
number.
(b)A
description of transactions covered by the assignment and the total amount of
transaction privilege or use tax paid by the vendor for those transactions.
(c)The tax
periods for which the vendor reported and remitted the tax to the department.
(d)A list
of any local jurisdictions to which the vendor reported and remitted local
privilege taxes arising from the transactions covered by the assignment.
(e)The
vendor's authorization for the department to amend the vendor's returns or
account to reflect the amount paid to the customer pursuant to a claim filed
under this section.
(f)A statement executed by the
vendor affirming, under penalty of perjury, that the vendor has not requested
or received a refund or credit and will not claim a refund or credit for the
tax remitted on the transactions covered by the assignment. If the vendor is a
legal entity, the statement shall be executed by a full-time officer, partner,
member or manager of a limited liability company or an employee of the vendor
who is authorized to execute the form on behalf of the vendor.
2.If the
vendor fails or refuses to properly assign its right to a claim as provided in
paragraph 1 of this subsection within sixty days after the date of the
customer's written request to the vendor or if the vendor is no longer in
business, the customer may provide the department with a statement on a form
prescribed by the department explaining the efforts made to obtain an
assignment from the vendor.The statement shall contain all of the
following:
(a)The vendor's transaction
privilege tax license number or use tax registration number, if known by the
customer.
(b)A description of transactions
sought to be covered by the assignment and either the total amount of
transaction privilege tax due for the transactions or the total amount of use
tax collected by the vendor for the transactions.
(c)The tax periods for which the vendor should have reported
and remitted the tax to the department.
C.If a
claim is filed with the department pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 2 of
this section, the department shall attempt to notify the vendor of the claim at
the vendor's last known address.The department shall continue
processing the claim on receiving written acknowledgment from the vendor
affirming the accuracy of the information regarding the transactions provided
by the customer.On paying or crediting monies to the customer
pursuant to the claim, the department shall amend the vendor's returns or
account to reflect the amount paid or credited to the customer.If
the vendor objects to the claim by the customer or fails to respond within
thirty days after the date of the notice, the department may continue to
process the claim and, on paying or crediting monies to the customer pursuant
to the claim, the department shall amend the vendor's returns or account to
reflect the amount paid or credited to the customer and notify the vendor of
the adjustment.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the
department and the vendor may communicate regarding the customer's claim.
d.A claim
submitted by a customer under this section is subject to any offset, defense or
other claim that the department would otherwise have against either the
customer or the vendor.
e.The
department may not require the vendor or the customer to submit amended returns
for a claim submitted under this section.
f.Notwithstanding
any law to the contrary, the department may disallow a claim filed by a
customer for an amount under this section if the department already paid or
credited a refund of transaction privilege or use tax arising from the same
transaction or transactions pursuant to section 421118. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-1119, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1119.Denial of refund
A.If the department disallows any claim for refund,
it shall notify the taxpayer accordingly.The department's action on
the claim is final unless the taxpayer appeals to the department in writing
within the time and in the manner prescribed by section 421123.If
the department disallows interest on any claim for refund, it shall notify the
taxpayer accordingly and the claim shall be treated as a claim for refund.
B.If the
department disallows any claim under section 42-1118.01, the department shall
notify the customer and the vendor. The department's action on the claim is
final unless the customer appeals to the department in writing within the time
and in the manner prescribed by section 42-1251. If the department disallows
interest on any claim under section 42-1123, the department shall notify the
customer and the claim shall be treated as a claim under section 42-1118.01.
B.C.If
the department fails to mail notice of action on any claim for refund of tax or
interest within six months after the claim is filed, the taxpayer or a customer with rights to a claim under
section 421118.01, prior to mailing of notice of action on
the refund claim, may consider the claim disallowed.The taxpayer or the customer may appeal to
the department for a hearing pursuant to section 421251. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-1123, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1123.Interest
A.If it is provided by law that interest applies as
determined pursuant to this section, the department shall apply interest,
compounded annually, in the same manner and at the same times as prescribed by
section 6621 of the United States internal revenue code, except that the rate
of interest for both overpayments and underpayments for all taxpayers is the
federal shortterm rate, determined pursuant to section 6621(b) of the
internal revenue code, plus three percentage points.
B.On January 1 of each year the department shall
add any interest outstanding as of that date to the principal amount of the
tax.For purposes of this section, the amount added to the principal is
thereafter considered a part of the principal amount of the tax and accrues
interest pursuant to this section.
C.If the tax, whether determined by the department
or the taxpayer, or any portion of the tax is not paid on or before the date
prescribed for its payment,
the department shall collect, as a part of the tax, interest on the unpaid
amount at the rate determined pursuant to this section from the date prescribed
for its payment until it is paid.
D.Interest on the amount assessed as a deficiency
shall be assessed and paid at the same time as the deficiency at the rate
determined pursuant to this section from the date prescribed for the payment of
the tax to the date the deficiency is assessed.If any portion of
the deficiency is paid before the date it is assessed, interest shall accrue on
that portion only to the date paid.
E.If the time for filing a return is extended, the
department shall collect, as part of such tax, interest on any unpaid balance
at the rate determined pursuant to this section from the date on which the
payment should have been made if no extension had been granted until the date
the tax is paid.
F.Except in the case of a jeopardy assessment,
collection of which has been stayed by the posting of a bond, if a deficiency
or any interest is not paid in full within ten days from the date of notice and
demand from the department, the department shall collect as a part of the tax
interest on the unpaid tax or interest at the rate determined pursuant to this
section from the date of the notice and demand until it is paid.
G.If an original return filed with the department
shows that the taxpayer is entitled to a refund, interest is not allowed on the
amount to be refunded if the refund is paid within sixty days of the last day
for filing the return or sixty days from the filing of the return, whichever is
later.If the department does not pay the amount of the refund due
within sixty days after the date established in this subsection, the department
shall pay the interest on the amount at the rate prescribed in this section
from the sixtyfirst day to the issued date of the refund
warrant.The department's annual budget shall separately state the
amount necessary to satisfy the requirements of this subsection.
H.In the case of an amended return, claim for refund
or refund determined through audit, interest shall be allowed and paid, with
respect to any tax, from the date prescribed for the payment of that tax to the
issue date of the refund warrant, but in the case of an original return of tax which that is filed after the last date prescribed
for filing the return and paying such tax, determined with regard to
extensions, no interest may be allowed or paid for any day before the date on
which the return is filed or the tax paid, whichever is later.A
payment not made incident to a bona fide and orderly discharge of an actual
liability or one reasonably assumed to be imposed by law is not an overpayment
for the purposes of this subsection and interest is not payable on the payment.
I.In the
case of a customer claim under section 42-1118.01, interest shall be allowed
and paid with respect to any amount from the date prescribed for the payment of
that amount to the date of the credit or payment of the claim to the
customer.A payment not made incident to a bona fide and orderly
discharge of an actual liability or one reasonably assumed to be imposed by law
is not an overpayment for the purposes of this subsection, and interest is not
payable on the payment.
I.J.If a
credit or refund of any part of an overpayment would be barred under section 421106,
subsection A, except for the provisions of section 421104, subsection B,
paragraph 4, interest shall not be allowed or paid with respect to such part of
the overpayment for any period beginning after the expiration of the period of
limitation provided in section 421106, subsection A for filing a claim
for credit or refund of such part of the overpayment and ending at the
expiration of six months after the date on which the claim was filed or, if no
claim was filed and the overpayment was found by the department, ending at the
time the appeal was filed with the board.
J.K.In
any judgment of any court rendered for any overpayment, interest shall be
allowed at the rate determined pursuant to this section on the amount of the
overpayment from the date of the payment or collection to the date of allowance
of credit on account of such judgment or to a date determined by the department
preceding the date of the refund warrant by not more than thirty days. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-1251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1251.Appeal to the department; hearing
A.Except in the case of individual income taxes, a
person from whom an amount is determined to be due under article 3 of this
chapter may apply to the department by a petition in writing within fortyfive
days after the notice of a proposed assessment made pursuant to section 421109,
subsection B or the notice required by section 421108, subsection B is
received, or within such additional time as the department may allow, for a
hearing, correction or redetermination of the action taken by the
department.In the case of individual income taxes, the period is ninety days from the date the
notice is mailed.The petition shall set forth the reasons why the
hearing, correction or redetermination should be granted and the amount in
which any tax, interest and penalties should be reduced.If only a
portion of the deficiency assessment is protested, all unprotested amounts of
tax, interest and penalties must be paid at the time the protest is filed. The
department shall consider the petition and grant a hearing, if requested. To
represent the taxpayer person at the hearing or to
appear on the taxpayer's person's behalf is deemed not
to be the practice of law.
B.If the taxpayer person does not file a
petition for hearing, correction or redetermination within the period provided
by this section, the amount determined to be due becomes final at the
expiration of the period. The taxpayer person is deemed to have
waived and abandoned the right to question the amount determined to be due,
unless the taxpayer person pays the total
deficiency assessment, including interest and penalties.The taxpayer person may then file a claim for refund
pursuant to section 421118 within six months of payment of the
deficiency assessment or within the time limits prescribed by section 421106,
whichever period expires later.
C.All orders or decisions made on the filing of a
petition for a hearing, correction or redetermination become final thirty days
after notice has been received by the petitioner, unless the petitioner appeals
the order or decision to the state board of tax appeals. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
42-1253, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1253.Appeal to state board of tax appeals; definition
A.Except as provided in section 421254,
subsection C, a person aggrieved by a final decision or order of the department
under section 421251, article 3 of this chapter or section 422065,
422068, 422069, 422074, 422201 or 422202 may
appeal to the state board of tax appeals by filing a notice of appeal in
writing within thirty days after the decision or order from which the appeal is
taken has become final.
B.The board shall take testimony and examine
documentary evidence as necessary to determine the appeal, all pursuant to
administrative rules to govern such appeals.
C.On determining the appeal the board shall issue a
decision consistent with its determination.The board's decision is
final on the expiration of thirty days from the date when notice of its action
is received by the taxpayer person, unless either the
department or the taxpayer person brings an action in tax
court as provided in section 421254.
D.If the amount in any single dispute before the
board is less than twentyfive thousand dollars, a taxpayer
person may be represented in that dispute before the board by:
1.A certified public accountant.
2.A person who is enrolled to practice before the
United States internal revenue service and is recognized as an enrolled agent.
3.Any other person individual who is authorized
by the taxpayer person under a properly
executed power of attorney and who was previously or is currently retained by
the taxpayer person for purposes other than representation
in a hearing before the board.
E.If a practitioner who represents a taxpayer
person before the board pursuant to subsection D of this section
fails to comply with an order or rule of the board, the board may impose
sanctions including one or both of the following:
1.Order that the stipulation of the facts proposed
by the department of revenue be accepted.
2.Suspend the practitioner from further practice
before the board either for a specific period of time or until the board
removes the suspension.
F.For the purposes of this section,
"practitioner" means a person, other than a party, who files
documents with or appears before the board in connection with a matter before
the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 42-1254, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1254.Appeal to tax court
A.The department or a taxpayer person aggrieved by a decision of the state board of tax
appeals may bring an action in tax court.
B.If the department is aggrieved by a decision of
the board and the amount in dispute is less than five thousand dollars, the
department may not bring an action in tax court unless the department
determines that the decision of the board involves an issue of substantial
significance to the state.A taxpayer person aggrieved by a
determination of the department that an issue is of substantial significance to
the state may file a motion with the tax court to dismiss the action brought by
the department on the grounds that the determination constitutes an abuse of
discretion.
C.Except in the case of individual income tax cases
in which the amount in dispute is less than five thousand dollars, a person who
is aggrieved by a final decision or order of the department under section 421251
or article 3 of this chapter may,
in lieu of appealing to the state board of tax appeals under section 421253,
may bring an action in
tax court by filing a notice of appeal in writing within thirty days after the
decision or order from which the appeal is taken has become final.
D.Any appeal that is taken to tax court pursuant to
this section is subject to the following provisions:
1.No injunction, writ of mandamus or other legal or
equitable process may issue in an action in any court in this state against an
officer of this state to prevent or enjoin the collection of any tax, penalty
or interest.
2.The action shall not begin more than thirty days
after the order or decision of the board or department becomes
final.Failure to bring the action within thirty days after the
order or decision of the board or department becomes final constitutes a waiver
of the protest and a waiver of all claims against this state arising from or
based on the illegality in the tax, penalties and interest at issue, except
that within the time limits set forth in section 421106, a taxpayer person who fails to bring an action within
thirty days may pay the tax under protest stating the grounds of objection to
the legality of the tax and then file a claim for refund of the taxes
paid.The refund claim shall then be governed by section 421119
and this section.
3.The tax court shall hear and determine the appeal
as a trial de novo.
4.Either party to such action may appeal to the court
of appeals or supreme court as provided by law.
5.If a final judgment is rendered in favor of the taxpayer person in the action, the amount or such
portion of the judgment as may be necessary shall first be credited to any
taxes, penalties and interest due from the plaintiff taxpayer
person, and the amount of the balance remaining due the taxpayer person shall be certified by the department of
revenue to the department of administration, with a certified copy of the final
judgment and a claim for refund authenticated by the department of
revenue.On receipt, the department of administration shall draw a
warrant payable to the taxpayer person in an amount equal to
the amount of the tax found by the judgment to be illegal, less the amount of
any taxes, penalties and interest due from the taxpayer
person.The department of administration shall draw a
separate warrant payable to the taxpayer person in an amount equal to
the interest and other costs recovered against the department of revenue by the
judgment, which shall be paid from the appropriate tax account. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 42-2003, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2003.Authorized disclosure of confidential information
A.Confidential
information relating to:
1.A taxpayer may be
disclosed to the taxpayer, its successor in interest or a designee of the
taxpayer who is authorized in writing by the taxpayer.A principal
corporate officer of a parent corporation may execute a written authorization
for a controlled subsidiary.
2.A corporate taxpayer
may be disclosed to any principal officer, any person designated by a principal
officer or any person designated in a resolution by the corporate board of
directors or other similar governing body.
3.A partnership may be
disclosed to any partner of the partnership. This exception does not include
disclosure of confidential information of a particular partner unless otherwise
authorized.
4.An estate may be
disclosed to the personal representative of the estate and to any heir, next of
kin or beneficiary under the will of the decedent if the department finds that
the heir, next of kin or beneficiary has a material interest which
that will be affected by the confidential information.
5.A trust may be
disclosed to the trustee or trustees, jointly or separately, and to the grantor
or any beneficiary of the trust if the department finds that the grantor or
beneficiary has a material interest that will be affected by the confidential
information.
6.Any taxpayer may be
disclosed if the taxpayer has waived any rights to confidentiality either in
writing or on the record in any administrative or judicial proceeding.
7.The name and taxpayer
identification numbers of persons issued direct payment permits may be publicly
disclosed.
8.The
vendor as defined in section 42-1101.01 of a customer as defined in section
42-1101.01 with rights to a claim under section 421118.01 or 421119
may be disclosed to the customer in order for the customer to pursue a claim in
lieu of a claim for refund of transaction privilege tax or use tax reported and
remitted by the customer's vendor.
B.Confidential
information may be disclosed to:
1.Any employee of the
department whose official duties involve tax administration.
2.The office of the
attorney general solely for its use in preparation for, or in an investigation
that may result in, any proceeding involving tax administration before the
department or any other agency or board of this state, or before any grand jury
or any state or federal court.
3.The department of
liquor licenses and control for its use in determining whether a spirituous
liquor licensee has paid all transaction privilege taxes and affiliated excise
taxes incurred as a result of the sale of spirituous liquor, as defined in
section 4101, at the licensed establishment and imposed on the licensed
establishments by this state and its political subdivisions.
4.Other state tax officials
whose official duties require the disclosure for proper tax administration
purposes if the information is sought in connection with an investigation or
any other proceeding conducted by the official. Any disclosure is limited to
information of a taxpayer who is being investigated or who is a party to a
proceeding conducted by the official.
5.The following
agencies, officials and organizations, if they grant substantially similar
privileges to the department for the type of information being sought, pursuant
to statute and a written agreement between the department and the foreign
country, agency, state, Indian tribe or organization:
(a)The United States
internal revenue service, alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau of the
United States treasury, United States bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and
explosives of the United States department of justice, United States drug
enforcement agency and federal bureau of investigation.
(b)A state tax official
of another state.
(c)An organization of
states, federation of tax administrators or multistate tax commission that
operates an information exchange for tax administration purposes.
(d)An agency, official
or organization of a foreign country with responsibilities that are comparable
to those listed in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
(e)An agency, official
or organization of an Indian tribal government with responsibilities comparable
to the responsibilities of the agencies, officials or organizations identified
in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
6.The auditor general,
in connection with any audit of the department subject to the restrictions in
section 422002, subsection D.
7.Any person to the
extent necessary for effective tax administration in connection with:
(a)The processing,
storage, transmission, destruction and reproduction of the information.
(b)The programming,
maintenance, repair, testing and procurement of equipment for purposes of tax
administration.
(c)The collection of
the taxpayer's civil liability.
8.The office of
administrative hearings relating to taxes administered by the department
pursuant to section 421101, but the department shall not disclose any
confidential information:
(a)Regarding income tax
or withholding tax.
(b)On any tax issue
relating to information associated with the reporting of income tax or
withholding tax.
9.The United States
treasury inspector general for tax administration for the purpose of reporting
a violation of internal revenue code section 7213A (26 United States Code
section 7213A), unauthorized inspection of returns or return information.
10.The financial
management service of the United States treasury department for use in the
treasury offset program.
11.The United States
treasury department or its authorized agent for use in the state income tax
levy program and in the electronic federal tax payment system.
12.The Arizona
commerce authority for its use in:
(a)Qualifying renewable
energy operations for the tax incentives under sections 4212006, 431083.01
and 431164.01.
(b)Qualifying
businesses with a qualified facility for income tax credits under sections 431083.03
and 431164.04.
(c)Fulfilling its
annual reporting responsibility pursuant to section 411511, subsections
U and V and section 411512, subsections U and V.
(d)Certifying computer
data centers for tax relief under section 411519.
13.A prosecutor for
purposes of section 321164, subsection C.
14.The state fire
marshal for use in determining compliance with and enforcing title 41, chapter
16, article 3.1.
15.The department of
transportation for its use in administering taxes, surcharges and penalties
prescribed by title 28.
16.The Arizona
health care cost containment system administration for its use in administering
nursing facility provider assessments.
C.Confidential
information may be disclosed in any state or federal judicial or administrative
proceeding pertaining to tax administration pursuant to the following
conditions:
1.One or more of the
following circumstances must apply:
(a)The taxpayer is a
party to the proceeding.
(b)The proceeding arose
out of, or in connection with, determining the taxpayer's civil or criminal
liability, or the collection of the taxpayer's civil liability, with respect to
any tax imposed under this title or title 43.
(c)The treatment of an
item reflected on the taxpayer's return is directly related to the resolution
of an issue in the proceeding.
(d)Return information
directly relates to a transactional relationship between a person who is a
party to the proceeding and the taxpayer and directly affects the resolution of
an issue in the proceeding.
2.Confidential
information may not be disclosed under this subsection if the disclosure is
prohibited by section 422002, subsection C or D.
D.Identity information
may be disclosed for purposes of notifying persons entitled to tax refunds if
the department is unable to locate the persons after reasonable effort.
E.The department, on
the request of any person, shall provide the names and addresses of bingo
licensees as defined in section 5401, verify whether or not a person has
a privilege license and number, a tobacco product distributor's license and number or a
withholding license and number or disclose the information to be posted on the
department's website or otherwise publicly accessible pursuant to section 421124,
subsection F and section 423401.
F.A department
employee, in connection with the official duties relating to any audit,
collection activity or civil or criminal investigation, may disclose return
information to the extent that disclosure is necessary to obtain information
that is not otherwise reasonably available.These official duties
include the correct determination of and liability for tax, the amount to be
collected or the enforcement of other state tax revenue laws.
G.If an organization is
exempt from this state's income tax as provided in section 431201 for
any taxable year, the name and address of the organization and the application
filed by the organization on which the department made its determination for
exemption together with any papers submitted in support of the application and
any letter or document issued by the department concerning the application are
open to public inspection.
H.Confidential
information relating to transaction privilege tax, use tax, severance tax, jet
fuel excise and use tax and any other tax collected by the department on behalf
of any jurisdiction may be disclosed to any county, city or town tax official
if the information relates to a taxpayer who is or may be taxable by a county,
city or town or who may be subject to audit by the department pursuant to
section 426002.Any taxpayer information released by the
department to the county, city or town:
1.May only be used for
internal purposes, including audits.
2.May not be disclosed
to the public in any manner that does not comply with confidentiality standards
established by the department.The county, city or town shall agree
in writing with the department that any release of confidential information
that violates the confidentiality standards adopted by the department will
result in the immediate suspension of any rights of the county, city or town to
receive taxpayer information under this subsection.
I.The department may
disclose statistical information gathered from confidential information if it
does not disclose confidential information attributable to any one taxpayer.
The department may disclose statistical information gathered from confidential
information, even if it discloses confidential information attributable to a
taxpayer, to:
1.The state treasurer
in order to comply with the requirements of section 425029, subsection
A, paragraph 3.
2.The joint legislative
income tax credit review committee, the joint legislative budget committee
staff and the legislative staff in order to comply with the requirements of
section 43221.
J.The department may
disclose the aggregate amounts of any tax credit, tax deduction or tax
exemption enacted after January 1, 1994. Information subject to disclosure
under this subsection shall not be disclosed if a taxpayer demonstrates to the
department that such information would give an unfair advantage to competitors.
K.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection C, confidential information, described in
section 422001, paragraph 1, subdivision (a), item (ii), may be
disclosed to law enforcement agencies for law enforcement purposes.
L.The department may
provide transaction privilege tax license information to property tax officials
in a county for the purpose of identification and verification of the tax
status of commercial property.
M.The department may
provide transaction privilege tax, luxury tax, use tax, property tax and
severance tax information to the ombudsmancitizens aide pursuant to
title 41, chapter 8, article 5.
N.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, a court may order the department to
disclose confidential information pertaining to a party to an action. An order
shall be made only upon on a showing of good cause and
that the party seeking the information has made demand upon on
the taxpayer for the information.
O.This section does not
prohibit the disclosure by the department of any information or documents
submitted to the department by a bingo licensee. Before disclosing the
information the department shall obtain the name and address of the person
requesting the information.
P.If the department is
required or permitted to disclose confidential information, it may charge the
person or agency requesting the information for the reasonable cost of its
services.
Q.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, the department of revenue shall release
confidential information as requested by the department of economic security
pursuant to section 421122 or 46291. Information disclosed under
this subsection is limited to the same type of information that the United
States internal revenue service is authorized to disclose under section
6103(l)(6) of the internal revenue code.
R.Except as provided in
section 422002, subsection D, the department of revenue shall release
confidential information as requested by the courts and clerks of the court
pursuant to section 421122.
S.To comply with the
requirements of section 425031, the department may disclose to the state
treasurer, to the county stadium district board of directors and to any city or
town tax official that is part of the county stadium district confidential
information attributable to a taxpayer's business activity conducted in the
county stadium district.
T.The department shall
release to the attorney general confidential information as requested by the
attorney general for purposes of determining compliance with or enforcing any
of the following:
1.Any public health
control law relating to tobacco sales as provided under title 36, chapter 6,
article 14.
2.Any law relating to
reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards as provided under title 41,
chapter 16, article 3.1.
3.Sections 447101
and 447111, the master settlement agreement referred to in those
sections and all agreements regarding disputes under the master settlement
agreement.
U.For proceedings
before the department, the office of administrative hearings, the board of tax
appeals or any state or federal court involving penalties that were assessed
against a return preparer, an electronic return preparer or a payroll service
company pursuant to section 421103.02, 421125.01 or 43419,
confidential information may be disclosed only before the judge or
administrative law judge adjudicating the proceeding, the parties to the
proceeding and the parties' representatives in the proceeding prior to its
introduction into evidence in the proceeding.The confidential
information may be introduced as evidence in the proceeding only if the
taxpayer's name, the names of any dependents listed on the return, all social
security numbers, the taxpayer's address, the taxpayer's signature and any
attachments containing any of the foregoing information are redacted and if
either:
1.The treatment of an
item reflected on such return is or may be related to the resolution of an
issue in the proceeding.
2.Such a return or the return information relates or may relate
to a transactional relationship between a person who is a party to the
proceeding and the taxpayer which that directly affects the
resolution of an issue in the proceeding. 
3.The method of payment
of the taxpayer's withholding tax liability or the method of filing the
taxpayer's withholding tax return is an issue for the period.
V.The department and
attorney general may share the information specified in subsection T of this
section with any of the following:
1.Federal, state or
local agencies for the purposes of enforcement of corresponding laws of other
states.
2.A court, arbitrator,
data clearinghouse or similar entity for the purpose of assessing compliance
with or making calculations required by the master settlement agreement or
agreements regarding disputes under the master settlement agreement, and with
counsel for the parties or expert witnesses in any such proceeding, if the
information otherwise remains confidential.
W.The department may
provide the name and address of qualifying hospitals and qualifying health care
organizations, as defined in section 425001, to a business classified
and reporting transaction privilege tax under the utilities classification.
X.The department may
disclose to an official of any city, town or county in a current agreement or
considering a prospective agreement with the department as described in section
425032.02, subsection F any information relating to amounts subject to
distribution required by section 425032.02. Information disclosed by
the department under this subsection:
1.May only be used by
the city, town or county for internal purposes.
2.May not be disclosed
to the public in any manner that does not comply with confidentiality standards
established by the department.The city, town or county must agree
with the department in writing that any release of confidential information
that violates the confidentiality standards will result in the immediate
suspension of any rights of the city, town or county to receive information
under this subsection. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 42-2064, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2064.Reimbursement of fees and other costs; definitions
A.A taxpayer
person who is a
prevailing party may be reimbursed for reasonable fees and other costs related
to an administrative proceeding that is brought by or against the department in
connection with an assessment, determination, collection or refund of any tax
listed in section 421101 or in
connection with a claim under section 42-1118.01. For the
purposes of this subsection, a taxpayer
person is considered to
be a prevailing party only if both of the following are true:
1.The department's position was not substantially
justified.
2.The taxpayer
person prevails as to the
most significant issue or set of issues.
B.Reimbursement under this section may be denied if
any either of the following circumstances apply applies:
1.During the course of the proceeding the taxpayer person unduly and unreasonably protracted the
final resolution of the matter.
2.The reason that the taxpayer person prevailed is due to an intervening change in the
applicable law.
C.The taxpayer
person shall present an
itemization of the reasonable fees and other costs to the taxpayer problem
resolution officer within thirty days after the conclusion of the
administrative proceedings.The taxpayer problem resolution officer
shall determine the validity of the fees and other costs within thirty days after
receiving the itemization.The taxpayer problem resolution officer's
decision is considered the department's final decision or order and is subject
to appeal to the state board under section 421253.
D.The department of revenue shall pay the fees and
other costs awarded as provided in this section from any monies appropriated
for such purpose.If the department of revenue does not pay the fees
and other costs within thirty days after demand by a person who has received an
award pursuant to this section, and if no further review or appeals of the
award are pending, the person may file a claim for the fees and other costs
with the department of administration, which shall pay the claim within thirty
days, in the same manner as an uninsured property loss under title 41, chapter
3.1, article 1.If, at the time the department of revenue failed to
pay the award, it had appropriated monies either designated or assignable for
the purpose of paying such awards, the legislature shall reduce the department
of revenue's operating appropriation for the following year by the amount of
the award and appropriate the amount of the reduction to the department of
administration, risk management division, as reimbursement for the loss.
E.Reimbursement to a taxpayer person under this section shall not exceed seventyfive
thousand dollars or actual monies spent, whichever is less.The
reimbursable attorney or other representative fees shall not exceed three
hundred fifty dollars per hour or actual monies spent, whichever is less,
unless the state board of tax appeals determines that an increase in the cost
of living or a special factor such as the limited availability of qualified
attorneys for the proceeding involved justifies a higher fee.
F.For each calendar year beginning from and after
December 31, 2015, the income dollar amounts for maximum awards made pursuant
to subsection E of this section shall be adjusted by the attorney general
according to the average annual change in the metropolitan phoenix consumer price
index published by the United States bureau of labor statistics.The
revised dollar amounts shall be raised to the nearest whole
dollar.The income dollar amounts may not be revised below the
amounts prescribed in the prior calendar year.
G.The department shall adopt administrative rules
to implement this section.
H.Notwithstanding any provision of title 12,
chapter 3, article 5, a taxpayer
person who is a
prevailing party may only be reimbursed pursuant to this section.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Administrative proceeding" means any
review proceeding or appeal pursuant to section 421251 that is conducted
under the authority of section 421003 and an appeal to the state board
of tax appeals pursuant to section 421253.
2."Reasonable
fees and other costs" means fees and other costs that are based on
prevailing market rates for the kind and quality of the furnished services, but
not exceeding the amounts actually spent for expert witnesses, the cost of any
study, analysis, report, test or project that is found to be necessary to
prepare the party's case and necessary fees for attorneys or other
representatives. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 42-5008, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5008.Levy of tax; purposes; distribution
A.There is levied and there shall be collected by
the department, for the purpose of raising public money, privilege taxes
measured by the amount or volume of business transacted by persons on account
of their business activities, and in the amounts to be determined by the
application of rates against values, gross proceeds of sales or gross income,
as the case may be, as prescribed by this article and article 2 of this
chapter.
B.If any monies remain after the payments are made
for state purposes, as provided for by subsection A of this section, the remainder of the monies
shall be paid into the state school fund for educational purposes.
C.The tax levied by and collected pursuant to this
article and article 2 of this chapter is designated as the "transaction privilege tax".
D.Vendors as defined in section 42-1101.01 are
responsible for payment of transaction privilege tax to the department and,
except as provided in sections 421118.01 and 421119, only vendors
may pursue a refund of transaction privilege tax paid to the department. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Title 42, chapter 6, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-6009, to read:
START_STATUTE42-6009.Municipal refund claims; valid claim; notice of denial;
limitations period; conditions or requirements; interest; recovery of fees;
definitions
A.A customer who paid to a vendor an amount that
the vendor passed on to the customer equal to the vendor's municipal
transaction privilege tax or who paid a use tax to a vendor may file a claim
pursuant to this section if the vendor assigns to the customer its right to
claim an amount equal to any tax and interest that the vendor could otherwise
claim.
B.Claims under this section shall be made to the
tax collector of the city or town to which the tax was originally paid.
C.Any claim by a customer under this section is
in lieu of the vendor claiming a refund for the underlying tax.If a
claim is paid under this section, only the customer and not the vendor may be
held liable for any amount erroneously paid or credited to the customer.A
customer may file a claim under this section as follows:
1.Through an affirmative assignment of rights by
the vendor to the customer using a form and in the manner prescribed by the
department.The form prescribed by the department shall require all of
the following:
(a)The
vendor's municipal transaction privilege tax license number or use tax
registration number.
(b)A
description of transactions covered by the assignment and the total amount of
municipal transaction privilege or use tax paid by the vendor for such
transactions.
(c)The
tax periods for which the vendor reported and remitted the tax to the tax
collector.
(d)The
vendor's authorization for the tax collector to amend the vendor's returns or
account to reflect the amount paid to the customer pursuant to a claim filed
under this section.
(e)A
statement executed by the vendor affirming, under penalty of perjury, that the
vendor has not requested or received a refund or credit and will not claim a
refund or credit for the tax remitted on the transactions covered by the
assignment.If the vendor is a legal entity, the statement shall be
executed by a fulltime officer, partner, member or manager of a limited
liability company or an employee of the vendor who is authorized to execute the
form on behalf of the vendor.
2.If the vendor fails or refuses to properly
assign its right to a claim under this section within sixty days after the date
of the customer's written request to the vendor or if a vendor is no longer in
business, the customer may provide the tax collector with a statement on a form
prescribed by the department explaining the efforts made to obtain an
assignment from the vendor.The statement shall contain all of the
following:
(a)The
vendor's municipal transaction privilege tax license number or use tax
registration number, if known by the customer.
(b)A
description of transactions sought to be covered by the assignment and either
the total amount of municipal transaction privilege tax due for the
transactions or the total amount of use tax collected by the vendor for the
transactions.
(c)The
tax periods for which the vendor should have reported and remitted the tax to
the tax collector.
D.If a claim is filed with the tax collector
pursuant to subsection C, paragraph 2 of this section, the tax collector shall
attempt to notify the vendor of the claim at the vendor's last known
address.The tax collector shall continue processing the claim on
receiving written acknowledgment from the vendor affirming the accuracy of the
information regarding the transactions provided by the customer.On
paying or crediting monies to the customer pursuant to the claim, the tax
collector shall amend the vendor's returns or account to reflect the amount
paid or credited to the customer. If the vendor objects to the claim by the
customer or fails to respond within thirty days after the date of the notice,
the tax collector may continue to process the claim and, on paying or crediting
monies to the customer pursuant to the claim, the tax collector shall amend the
vendor's returns or account to reflect the amount paid or credited to the
customer and notify the vendor of the adjustment.Notwithstanding
any law to the contrary, the tax collector and the vendor may communicate regarding
the customer's claim.
E.A claim submitted by a customer under this
section is subject to any offset, defense or other claim that the tax collector
would otherwise have against either the customer or the vendor.
F.The tax collector may not require the vendor or
the customer to submit amended returns for a claim submitted under this
section.
G.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the
tax collector may deny a claim filed by a customer for an amount under this
section if the tax collector already paid or credited a refund of municipal
transaction privilege tax arising from the same transaction or transactions.
H.If a claim is valid under this section, the
tax collector may not refuse to process the claim or require the customer to
refile the claim.If the tax collector refuses to process or
requires the refiling of a claim that is valid under this section:
1.For the purposes of the limitations period,
the claim is deemed received on the date the original filing was received by
the tax collector notwithstanding the tax collector's refusal to process the
claim or requirement to refile the claim.
2.The customer may treat the tax
collector's refusal to process or requirement to refile the claim as a denial
of the claim and the customer may file a petition for hearing regarding the
refusal to process or requirement to refile under the administrative review
provisions of the model city tax code or state law, as
applicable.The customer may file a petition for hearing at any time
after the refusal to process or requirement to refile the claim.
I.Except as provided in subsection H, paragraph
2 of this section, a denial of a claim does not occur until the tax collector
notifies the customer in writing that:
1.The claim has been denied and provides the
reasoning for the denial.
2.The notice constitutes a denial of the claim
that triggers the deadline for filing a petition for hearing under the
administrative review provisions of the model city tax code or state law, as
applicable.
J.The time limitation for filing an
administrative appeal does not begin until the tax collector issues the
notifications required by subsection I of this section.
K.Any request by the tax collector for
additional information to process the claim shall be reasonably related to the
claim.The tax collector may not require a customer making a claim
under this section to provide any report or information that is not required to
be maintained in the normal course of business under the recordkeeping
requirements of the model city tax code.The tax collector may not
impose unreasonable time limits for a customer making a claim under this
section to respond to any valid request for a report or
information.The tax collector shall grant a customer's reasonable
request for one or more extensions to provide any requested report or
information.
L.Any denial of a request for claim under this
section shall state in writing that:
1.The claim has been denied and provide the
reason for the denial.
2.The notice constitutes a denial of the claim
that triggers the deadline for filing a petition for hearing under the
administrative review provisions of the model city tax code or state law, as
applicable.
M.Tax paid on an activity that is not subject to
tax or that qualifies for an exemption, deduction, exclusion or credit is not
excess collected tax.
N.Interest on a claim shall be paid to the
customer making a claim under this section at the rate and in the manner
prescribed by section 421123, subsection A. Interest on a claim shall
be computed from the date the claim is filed.
O.A customer that is ultimately determined to be
entitled to a claim may be awarded, by order of a court, board or hearing
officer, reasonable fees and other costs relating to the administrative
processing or administrative appeal of the claim, if the tax collector's
position was not substantially justified or was brought for the purpose of
harassing the customer, frustrating the claim process or delaying the claim.
P.If a discrepancy occurs between this section and
any provision of the model city tax code, this section applies.
Q.For the purposes of this section:
1."Customer" means a person that
purchases goods or services from any vendor.
2."Model city tax code" means the
model city tax code as defined in section 426051, and its appendices and
regulations, as adopted in the city or town, and includes the specific state
law incorporated in the model city tax code and the interpretation of state
law.
3."Municipal transaction privilege
tax" means a municipal transaction privilege tax, municipal privilege
license tax or municipal transaction privilege license tax, municipal use tax
or similar excise tax that is imposed by the tax collector.
4."Reasonable fees and other costs"
means fees and other costs that are based on prevailing market rates for the
kind and quality of the furnished services and that do not exceed the amounts
actually paid for expert witnesses, the cost of any study, analysis, report,
test, project or computer program found to be necessary to prepare the
claimant's case and necessary fees for attorneys or other representatives.
5."Tax collector" means the municipal
tax collector or the department when it is acting as the tax collector for
those cities and towns in the state collection program, as applicable under the
model city tax code and its appendices.
6."Vendor" means any taxpayer that
either is liable for filing and remitting municipal transaction privilege tax
to the tax collector or that is registered with the tax collector to remit use
tax to the tax collector on behalf of its purchasers. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 44-1263, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1263.Inability to conform motor vehicle to express warranty;
replacement of vehicle or refund of monies; affirmative defenses; tax refund
A.If the manufacturer, its agents or its authorized
dealers are unable to conform the motor vehicle to any applicable express
warranty by repairing or correcting any defect or condition which that
substantially impairs the use and value of the motor vehicle to the consumer
after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall replace the motor
vehicle with a new motor vehicle or accept the return of the motor vehicle from the
consumer and refund to the consumer the full purchase price, including all
collateral charges, less a reasonable allowance for the consumer's use of the
vehicle.The manufacturer shall make refunds to the consumer and
lienholder, if any, as their interests appear.A reasonable
allowance for use is that amount directly attributable to use by the consumer
before his the consumer's first written report of the
nonconformity to the manufacturer, agent or dealer and during any subsequent
period when the vehicle is not out of service by reason of repair.
B.It is an affirmative defense to any claim under
this article that either:
1.An alleged nonconformity does not substantially
impair the use and market value of the motor vehicle.
2.A nonconformity is the result of abuse, neglect
or unauthorized modifications or alterations of the motor vehicle.
C.In the case of taxes paid pursuant to title 42,
chapter 5, if the manufacturer:
1.Accepts the
return of a motor vehicle from a consumer without replacing the
motor vehicle, the manufacturer shall refund the amount of tax attributed to
the sale of the vehicle to that consumer.
2.Replaces a motor vehicle with a new motor vehicle
of lesser value, the manufacturer shall refund the difference between the
original amount of tax attributed to the sale of that vehicle and the amount of
tax attributed to the sale of the replacement vehicle, excluding the value of
the motor vehicle being replaced.
3.Replaces a motor vehicle with a new motor vehicle
of greater value, the manufacturer shall calculate the gross proceeds of sales
pursuant to section 425001, paragraph 6.
D.Pursuant to section 421118, subsection F g, the manufacturer may apply to the department
of revenue for a refund for the amount of tax that the manufacturer properly
refunds to the consumer. END_STATUTE

