







REFERENCE TITLE: national monuments; justification;
  litigation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2585









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe, Barton, Senator Allen S: Representatives Allen J, Borrelli, Campbell,
  Lawrence, Livingston, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
41-151.20, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to national monuments.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-151.20, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-151.20.Historical advisory commission; membership; terms;
expenses; duties; historic sites review committee; national monuments; attorney
general; litigation
A.A historical advisory commission is established
consisting of members appointed by the director for staggered terms of three
years ending on July 1. The commission membership of not less than ten nor
more than twenty-five members shall consist of experts in the disciplines of
history, arts and culture, architecture and archaeology, professional
librarians and archivists or persons otherwise associated with the
interpretation, research, writing, preservation or teaching of this state's
heritage, including the Indian nations' history and heritage, and the director
of the Arizona historical society, the director of the state museum, the
director of the Arizona state parks board, the director of the office of tourism
or the director's designee, the superintendent of public instruction or the
superintendent's designee and the state historic preservation officer.
B.Members shall serve without compensation but
those employed by the state shall be reimbursed for travel and subsistence by
the department or agency they represent and those who are not employed by the
state are eligible for reimbursement of expenses by the commission pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2.
C.The commission shall:
1.Advise the legislature and state agencies on
matters relating to this state's history and historic preservation.
2.Recommend measures to the legislature and state
agencies to coordinate or improve the effectiveness of activities of state
agencies and agencies of the political subdivisions of this state and other
persons relating to the interpretation, research, writing and teaching of this
state's history, heritage and historic preservation, including the Indian
nations' history, heritage and preservation.
3.Advise the legislature and state agencies on the
dissemination of information pertaining to activities relating to historic
preservation as provided in paragraph 2
of this subsection.
4.Encourage, in cooperation with appropriate public
and private agencies, the Indian nations and other persons, training and
education in the field of the interpretation, research, writing and teaching of
this state's history, heritage and historic preservation.
5.Assist in the establishment of the Arizona
register of heritage agriculture as provided in section 3162.
6.maintain
a catalog of each existing or newly created national MONUMENT in this
state.For each national monument, The commission shall request from
the federal government the following:
(a)a
detailed accounting of each individual item to be protected.
(b)the
precise global positioning system location of each item to be protected.
(c)the
square footage that each item to be protected occupies.
(d)the
total square footage of the parcel of land comprising the national monument.
(e)a
peer-reviewed justification for the protection of the object by the federal
government.
7.Determine whether the limits of a parcel
comprising a national monument in this state are confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected
by the national monument.
6.8.Submit annually on September 30
a report of the commission's activities to the director for inclusion in the
annual report of the state library.
D.A historic sites review committee consisting of
nine members is established to serve as a standing committee of the historical
advisory commission. The state historic preservation officer shall appoint
committee members for staggered terms of three years ending on July
1.The state historic preservation officer may appoint persons other
than commission members to serve on the committee and shall appoint at least
five persons who are professionals qualified in the disciplines of history,
prehistoric and historic archaeology, architectural history or architecture.
The committee shall select annually at the first meeting a chairman who is a
commission member. The chairman shall report on committee activities at
commission meetings. The committee shall assist in the duties prescribed in
this section and by federal law, review nominations to the national and state
historic registers, provide general advice and guidance to the state historic
preservation officer and perform other duties as are necessary. On or before September
1 of each year, the state historic preservation officer shall submit a report
of the committee's activities to the governor, the president of the senate, the
speaker of the house of representatives and the director, including information
prescribed in sections 41862 and 41881.
E.If the
commission determines pursuant to subsection C, paragraph 7 of this section
that the limits of a parcel comprising a national monument in this state are
not confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects to be protected by the national monument, the
commission shall notify the attorney general.On receipt of the
notice, the attorney general shall commence an action to confine the limits of
the parcel comprising the national monument to the smallest area compatible
with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected by the
national monument. END_STATUTE

