







REFERENCE TITLE: separating service members; professional
  licenses







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2519









Introduced by
Representatives
  Andrade, Cardenas, Larkin: Campbell, Friese, Lawrence, Townsend, Senators
  Bradley, Dial





AN ACT

amending section
324302, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to military licensees.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
32-4302, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-4302.Out-of-state applicants; military spouses; separating
service members; reciprocity
A.Notwithstanding any
other law and except as
provided in subsection B of this section, a license or certificate shall
be issued, in the discipline applied for and at the same practice level as
determined by the regulating entity, pursuant to this title without an
examination to a person who either:
1.Is
married to an active duty member of the armed forces of the United
States and who is accompanying the member to an official permanent change of
station to a military installation located in this state.
2.Has separated from the armed forces of the United
States under honorable conditions in the preceding ninety days.
B.A license or certificate may be issued under
subsection A of this section to a person described in subsection A, paragraph 1
or 2 of this section only if all of the following apply:
1.The person is
currently licensed or certified in at least one other state in the discipline
applied for and at the same practice level as determined by the regulating
entity and the license or certification is in good standing in all states in which
the person holds a license or certification.
2.The person has been
licensed or certified by another state for at least one year. If the person
has been licensed or certified for fewer than five years, the regulating entity
may require the person to practice under the direct supervision of a licensee
or certificate holder in the practice area in this state.
3.When the person was
licensed or certified by another state there were minimum education
requirements and, if applicable, work experience and clinical supervision
requirements in effect and the other state verifies that the person met those
requirements in order to be licensed or certified in that state.
4.The person previously
passed an examination required for the license or certification.
5.The person has not
had a license or certificate revoked and has not voluntarily surrendered a
license or certificate in any other state or country while under investigation
for unprofessional conduct.
6.The person has not
had discipline imposed by any other regulating entity. If another jurisdiction
has taken disciplinary action against the person, the regulating entity shall
determine if the cause for the action was corrected and the matter resolved.
If the matter has not been resolved by that jurisdiction, the regulating entity
may not issue or deny a license until the matter is resolved.
7.The person does not
have a complaint, allegation or investigation pending before another regulating
entity in another state or country that relates to unprofessional
conduct.If an applicant has any complaints, allegations or
investigations pending, the regulating entity in this state shall suspend the
application process and may not issue or deny a license to the applicant until
the complaint, allegation or investigation is resolved.
8.The person pays all
applicable fees.
B.C.This
section does not prevent a regulating entity under this title from entering
into a reciprocity agreement with another state or jurisdiction for persons
married to active duty members of the armed forces of the United States or for persons who have separated
from the armed forces of the United States under honorable conditions in the
preceding ninety days, except that the agreement may not allow outofstate
licensees or certificate holders to obtain a license or certificate by
reciprocity in this state if the applicant has not met standards that are
substantially equivalent to or greater than the standards required in this
state as determined by the regulating entity on a casebycase
basis.
C.D.This
section does not apply to a regulating entity under this title that has entered
into a licensing compact with another state for the regulation of practice
under the regulating entity's jurisdiction. END_STATUTE

