







REFERENCE TITLE: white collar crime offender registry







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2604









Introduced by
Representatives
  McCune Davis, Benally, Mendez, Rios, Velasquez: Alston, Fernandez, Friese,
  Gonzales, Meyer





AN ACT

amending title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 53; appropriating monies;
relating to the attorney general.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 53, to read:
CHAPTER 53
WHITE COLLAR CRIME OFFENDER REGISTRY
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE41-5301.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Certificate
of eligibility" means a document issued by the department stating that the
offender has met the requirements of section 415306.
2."Department"
means the department of public safety.
3."Offender"
means an individual required to register as provided in section 415304.
4."Registry"
means the white collar crime offender registry website. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5302.Attorney general; duties
A.The
attorney general shall:
1.Develop
and operate a system to collect, analyze, maintain and disseminate information
on offenders.
2.Make
information prescribed in section 415303 available to the public.
3.PRovide
the following information, if available:
(a)The crimes for which the
offender has been convicted. 
(b)A description of the offender's
target victims. 
(c)Any other RELEVANT identifying
information as determined by the attorney general. 
4.Maintain
the registry.
5.ensure
that information is entered into the registry.
6.Adopt
rules to implement this chapter.
B.Before an
offender is released from confinement, the state department of corrections in
conjunction with the department of public safety and each county sheriff, in
the manner PRESCRIBED by the attorney general, shall forward the offender's
records to the attorney general. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5303.White collar crime offender registry website; immunity
A.The
attorney general shall establish and maintain the white collar crime offender
registry website. Except as provided in subsection E of this section, the
registry must include the following information for each convicted offender who
is required to register pursuant to section 415304:
1.All names
and aliases by which the offender is or has been known, excluding any online or
internet identifiers.
2.A
physical description, including the offender's date of birth, height, weight
and eye and hair color.
3.A recent
photograph of the offender.
4.The
offenses committed pursuant to section 415304.
B.The registry must contain a disclaimer
informing the public that:
1.The information contained on the registry is
obtained from public records and the attorney general does not guarantee the
registry's accuracy or completeness.
2.Members
of the public may not use the information to harass or threaten offenders or
members of their families.
3.harassment,
stalking or making threats against offenders or their families is prohibited
and violates state law.
C.The
attorney general shall:
1.Index the
registry by the surname of the offender.
2.Construct
the registry so that before accessing registry information, the user must
indicate that the user has read and understands the disclaimer and agrees to
comply with the disclaimer's terms.
D.The
attorney general AND ANY INDIviDUAL OR ENTITY ACTING AT THE REQUEST OR ON
DIRECTION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ARE IMMUNE FROM CIVIL LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
AND ARE PRESUMED TO HAVE ACTED IN GOOD FAITH BY REPORTING THE INFORMATION.
e.tHE
ATTORNEY GENERAL SHALL REDACT from the registry THE NAMES, ADDRESSES, PHONE
NUMBERS AND SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERs AND ANY OTHER INFORMATION THAT, IF
DISCLOSED, SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIES INDIVIDUAL VICTIMS. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5304.Offenses; registry
A person who has been
convicted of any of the following offenses shall register with the attorney
general:
1.Business
and commercial fraud pursuant to title 13, chapter 22.
2.Theft
pursuant to section 131802, subsection A, paragraph 3.
3.Financial
exploitation pursuant to section 46456.
4.Residential
mortgage fraud pursuant to section 132320.
5.Telecommunications
fraud pursuant to section 133707.
6.Money
laundering pursuant to section 132317.
7.securities
fraud pursuant to title 44, chapter 12, article 13.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5305.Registration of offenders; exemptions
A.An
offender who has been convicted of any offense prescribed in section 415304
shall be listed on the registry for:
1.A period
of ten years for a first offense.
2.a second
period of ten years for a second conviction.
3.A
lifetime for a third or subsequent conviction.
B.Except as
PROVIDED in subsection C of this section, an offender who has been convicted of
any offense prescribed in section 415304 after December 31, 2016 shall
register with the attorney general pursuant to section 415304.
C.An
offender is not required to register pursuant to section 415304 if the
offender does all of the following:
1.complies
with all court orders at the time of sentencing.
2.pays in
full all courtordered amounts of restitution to victims.
3.is not
convicted of any other offense for which registration is required. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5306.Certificate of eligibility; violation; classification;
notice removal
A.An offender may petition the court
where the offender was convicted of the offense for which registration is
required for an order to remove the offender from the registry if: 
1.Five
years have passed since the completion of the offender's sentence.
2.The
offender has successfully completed all treatment ordered by the court.
3.The
offender has not been convicted of any other crime.
4.The
offender has paid all restitution ordered by the court.
5.Notice
has been delivered to the victims and the office that prosecuted the offender.
6.The
offender has not been found to be civilly liable in any case in which fraud,
misrepresentation, deceit, breach of fiduciary duty or the misuse or
misappropriation of monies is an element.
B.An
offender seeking removal from the registry shall apply to the department for a
certificate of eligibility.
C.An
offender who intentionally or knowingly provides any false or misleading
information to the department in applying for a certificate of eligibility is
guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor. Regardless of whether the offender is
prosecuted, the department may deny a certificate of eligibility to any person
who provides false information on an application under this section.
D.The
department shall check the records of governmental agencies, including national
criminal databases, to determine whether an offender is eligible to receive a
certificate of eligibility under this section. If the offender meets all of
the criteria under this section, the department shall issue a certificate of
eligibility to the offender, which is valid for a period of ninety days after
the date the certificate is issued.The department shall charge an
application fee for the certificate of eligibility in an amount to be
determined by the director of the department. The fee shall be paid at the
time the offender applies for a certificate of eligibility.
E.If
the department determines that the offender is eligible for a certificate of
eligibility, the department shall issue to the offender a certificate of
eligibility. The offender shall file a petition for removal from the registry
with the court and provide the court with a copy of the certificate of
eligibility issued pursuant to this subsection. The offender shall deliver a
copy of the petition to the office of the prosecutor.
F.On
receipt of a petition for removal from the registry, the office of the
prosecutor shall provide notice of the petition by first class mail to the
victim at the most recent addresses of record on file. The notice shall:
1.Include
a copy of the petition for removal from the registry.
2.State
that the victim has a right to object to the removal of the offender from the
registry.
3.Provide
instructions for filing an objection with the court.
G.The
office of the prosecutor shall provide all of the following, if available, to the
court within thirty days after receiving the petition:
1.A
presentence report.
2.Any
evaluation done as part of sentencing.
3.Any
other information the office of the prosecutor feels the court should consider.
H.The
victim may respond to the petition by filing a recommendation or objection with
the court within fortyfive days after receipt of the petition. The
court shall review the petition and all documents submitted with the petition
and hold a hearing if requested by the office of the prosecutor or the victim.
I.If
the court grants the petition and orders removal of the offender from the
registry, the court shall forward a copy of the order directing removal of the
offender from the registry to the attorney general and the office of the
prosecutor. The attorney general shall remove an offender from the registry on
order of the court. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Appropriation; attorney general
The sum of $100,000 is appropriated from the state general fund
in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the attorney general to establish the white collar
crime offender registry.

