







REFERENCE TITLE: Israel; boycotts; contracts; investments







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2617









Introduced by
Representatives
  Gowan, Allen J, Barton, Borrelli, Bowers, Boyer, Cardenas, Cobb, Fann,
  Finchem, Gray, Kern, Livingston, Mitchell, Montenegro, Olson, Saldate,
  Stevens, Thorpe, Senators Barto, Begay, Dial, Driggs, Kavanagh:
  Representatives Brophy McGee, Campbell, Carter, Coleman, Espinoza, Lawrence,
  Leach, Mesnard, Norgaard, Petersen, Rios, Rivero, Shope, Townsend, Weninger,
  Senators Donahue, Lesko, Shooter





AN ACT

amending Title
35, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 9; relating to
public contracts and investments.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 35, chapter 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 9, to read:
ARTICLE 9.ISRAEL BOYCOTT DIVESTMENTS
START_STATUTE35-393.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Board"
means the state board of investment established by section 35311.
2."Boycott"
means engaging in a refusal to deal, terminating business activities or performing
other actions that are intended to limit commercial relations with Israel or
with persons or entities doing business in Israel or in territories controlled
by Israel, if those actions are taken either:
(a)In compliance with or adherence
to calls for a boycott of Israel other than those boycotts to which 50 United
States Code section 4607(c)
applies.
(b)In a manner that discriminates
on the basis of nationality, national origin or religion and that is not based
on a valid business reason.
3."Company"
means a sole proprietorship, organization, association, corporation,
partnership, joint venture, limited partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company or other entity or business association, and includes
a wholly owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company or
affiliate.
4."Direct
holdings" means all publicly traded securities of a company that are held
directly by the state treasurer or a retirement system in an actively managed
account or fund in which the retirement system owns all shares or interests.
5."Indirect
holdings" means all securities of a company that are held in an account or
fund, including a mutual fund, that is managed by one or more persons who are
not employed by the state treasurer or a retirement system, if the state
treasurer or retirement system owns shares or interests either:
(a)together with other investors
that are not subject to this section.
(b)that are held in an index fund.
6."Public
entity" means this State, a political subdivision of this STATE or an
agency, board, commission or department of this state or a political
subdivision of this state.
7."Restricted
companies" means companies that boycott Israel.
8."Retirement
system" means a retirement plan or system that is established by or
pursuant to title 38. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE35-393.01.Contracting; prohibition; exceptions
A.A public
entity may not enter into a contract with a company to acquire or dispose of
services, supplies, information technology or construction unless the contract
includes a written certification that the company is not currently engaged in,
and agrees for the duration of the contract to not engage in, a boycott of
Israel.
B.This
section does not apply if either:
1.the
company offers to provide the services, supplies, information technology or
construction for at least twenty percent less than each other qualified
company.
2.the
contract has a total potential value of less than one thousand dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE35-393.02.Investment; restricted companies list; notice; immunity
A.On or
before April 1 of each year, The Board shall prepare a list of restricted
companies and shall distribute the list to the state treasurer and each
retirement system.
B.In
preparing the list of restricted companies, the Board may consider at least the
following:
1.publicly
available information, including information provided by nonprofit
organizations, research firms and government entities.
2.information
prepared by an independent research firm Retained by the board.
3.A
STATEMENT by a company THAT IT IS PARTICIPATING IN a BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL OR THAT
IT HAS TAKEN A BOYCOTT ACTION AT THE REQUEST of, IN COMPLIANCE WITH OR IN
FURTHERANCE OF CALLS FOR A BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL.
C.The board
shall notify each company that is included on the list of restricted companies
that the company is subject to divestment by the state treasurer and the
retirement systems.
D.If A
company that receives notice pursuant to subsection C of this section submits a
written certification to the board that it has ceased its boycott of Israel and
will not engage in a boycott of Israel for the period of time that the state
treasurer or a RETIREMENT SYSTEM invests in the company, the board shall:
1.remove
the company from the restricted list.
2.notify
the state treasurer and the retirement systems within ten business days after
receipt of the written certification of the removal.
E.The state
treasurer and each RETIREMENT system shall:
1.Sell,
redeem, divest or withdraw all direct holdings of a restricted company from the
assets under their management in an orderly and fiducially responsible manner
within three months after receiving the list of restricted companies pursuant
to subsection A of this section. On or before August 1 of each year, The state
treasurer and each retirement system shall notify the Board regarding
investments that are sold, redeemed, divested or withdrawn pursuant to this
PARAGRAPH.
2.Not
acquire securities of a restricted company as part of their direct HOLDINGS.
3.Request
that managers of their indirect holdings consider selling, redeeming, divesting
or withdrawing holdings of a restricted company from the assets under their
management.
F.With
respect to any action performed pursuant to this section, the board, the state
treasurer, each RETIREMENT SYSTEM and any person acting on behalf of the board,
the state treasurer or the RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
1.Are
exempt from any conflicting statutory or common law obligation or fiduciary
duties with respect to choice of asset managers, investment funds or
investments.
2.Are
subject to Title 12, chapter 7, article 2 regarding immunity for acts and
omissions.
3.Are
indemnified and held harmless by this State from claims, demands, suits,
actions, damages, judgments, costs, charges and expenses, including attorney
fees, and against all liability, losses and damages because of a decision to
sell, redeem, divest or withdraw holdings of a restricted company made pursuant
to this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE35-393.03.Severability
If any provision of
this article or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the invalidity does not affect any other provision or application of this
article that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application,
and to this end the provisions of this article are severable. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Legislative findings
A.Boycotts and related tactics have become a tool
of economic warfare that threaten the sovereignty and security of key allies
and trade partners of the United States.
B.The state of Israel is the most prominent target
of such boycott activity, beginning with the Arab League Boycott adopted in
1945, even before Israel's declaration of independence as the reestablished
national state of the Jewish people.
C.Companies that refuse to deal with United States
trade partners such as Israel, or entities that do business with or in such
countries, make discriminatory decisions on the basis of national origin that
impair those companies' commercial soundness.
D.It is the public policy of the United States, as
enshrined in several federal acts, including 50 United States Code section
4607, to oppose such boycotts, and Congress has concluded as a matter of
national trade policy that cooperation with Israel materially benefits United
States companies and improves American competitiveness.
E.Israel in particular is known for its dynamic and
innovative approach in many business sectors, and a company's decision to
discriminate against Israel, Israeli entities or entities that do business with
Israel or in Israel is an unsound business practice making the company an
unduly risky contracting partner or vehicle for investment.
F.This state seeks to implement Congress's
announced policy of "examining a company's promotion or compliance with
unsanctioned boycotts, divestment from, or sanctions against Israel as part of
its consideration in awarding grants and contracts and supports the divestment
of State assets from companies that support or promote actions to boycott,
divest from, or sanction Israel."

