







REFERENCE TITLE: refugees; facilities; licensure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2682









Introduced by
Representative
  Thorpe





AN ACT

Amending Title
36, chapter 1, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 36145;
amending section 36-414, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the department
of health services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, chapter 1, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-145, to read:
START_STATUTE36-145.Refugee facilities; licensure; renewal; inspections;
audits
A.A person may not operate a refugee
facility in this state unless the facility is licensed by the department. The
person shall apply in writing to the director on a form specified by the
director, shall include all required information in the application and shall
pay an annual licensing fee of one thousand dollars in addition to any other
fee prescribed by the director. The director shall adopt rules for the
licensure and inspection of refugee facilities.
B.A license under this section is valid for one year and
shall be renewed each year. A person shall file an application for renewal at
least thirty days before the expiration of the current license.
C.All fees collected pursuant to this section for the
licensure and renewal of refugee facilities shall be deposited in the health
services licensing fund established by section 36414.
D.The department shall inspect each refugee facility
monthly. the auditor general shall contract with an independent financial
auditor to audit each refugee facility annually.
E.Each refugee facility shall provide the department
with biometric information on each refugee who is assigned to the facility.
F.The director may sanction, impose civil penalties on
or, pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10, suspend or revoke, in whole or
in part, the license of any refugee facility if any person who is an owner,
officer, agent or employee of the refugee facility is in or continues to be in
violation of department rules adopted pursuant to this section.
Sec.2.Section 36-414, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-414.Health services licensing fund; exemption
A.The health services licensing fund is established
consisting of monies deposited pursuant to sections 36-145, 36405, 36882,
36897.01 and 361903.The department of health services
shall administer the fund.
B.Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation.
C.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Requirements for enactment;
two-thirds vote
Pursuant to article IX, section 22, Constitution of Arizona,
this act is effective only on the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of
the members of each house of the legislature and is effective immediately on
the signature of the governor or, if the governor vetoes this act, on the
subsequent affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members of each
house of the legislature.

