







REFERENCE TITLE: public school tax credit; expansion







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2631









Introduced by
Representatives
  Alston, Benally, Cardenas, Espinoza, Gabaldn, Saldate, Velasquez: Andrade,
  Carter, Clark, Cobb, Coleman, Fernandez, Hale, Kopec, Mach, McCune Davis,
  Meyer, Norgaard, Otondo, Plumlee, Rios, Wheeler





AN ACT

Amending section
43-1089.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the income tax credit for
public school fees and contributions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.01.Tax credit; public school fees and contributions;
definitions
A.A
credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of any fees paid or cash contributions made by a taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf
pursuant to section 43401, subsection G during the taxable year to a
public school located in this state for:
the support of

1.Fees paid for:
(a)Standardized
testing fees for college
credit or readiness offered by a widely recognized and accepted educational
testing organization. , 
(b)The
career and technical education industry certification assessment. ,

(c)Preparation
courses and materials for standardized testing. ,

2.Cash contributions for the support of:
(a)Extracurricular
activities of the public school.
or 
(b)Character
education programs of the public school.
,but not exceeding:
(c)School meal programs.
(d)Consumable student health care supplies.
B.The amount of the credit shall not exceed:
1.Two
hundred dollars for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Three
hundred dollars in taxable year 2005 for a married couple filing a joint
return.
3.Four
hundred dollars in taxable year 2006 and any subsequent taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.C.A husband and wife who file
separate returns for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint
return may each claim only onehalf of the tax credit that would have
been allowed for a joint return.
C.D.The credit allowed by this
section is in lieu of any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal
revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
D.E.If the allowable tax credit
exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or
if there are no taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount
of the claim not used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more
than five consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.F.The site council of the public
school that receives contributions that are not designated for a specific
purpose shall determine how the contributions are used at the school site. If
a charter school does not have a site council, the principal, director or chief
administrator of the charter school shall determine how the contributions that
are not designated for a specific purpose are used at the school site. If at
the end of a fiscal year a public school has unspent contributions that were
previously designated for a specific purpose or program and that purpose or program
has been discontinued or has not been used for two consecutive fiscal years,
these contributions shall be considered undesignated in the following fiscal
year for the purposes of this subsection.
F.G.A public school that receives
fees or a cash contribution pursuant to subsection A of this section shall
report to the department, in a form prescribed by the department, by February
28 of each year the following information:
1.The
total number of fee and cash contribution payments received during the previous
calendar year.
2.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions received during the previous
calendar year.
3.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions spent by the school during the
previous calendar year, categorized by specific standardized testing,
preparation courses and materials for standardized testing, extracurricular
activity or character education program.
G.H.For the purposes of this
section, a contribution for which a credit is claimed and that is made on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable
year may be applied to either the current or preceding taxable year and is
considered to have been made on the last day of that taxable year.
H.I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Career
and technical education industry certification assessment" means an
assessment for career and technical preparation programs for pupils.
2."Character
education programs" means a program described in section 15719.
3."Consumable student health care
supplies" includes tissues, hand wipes, bandages and other health care
consumables that are generally used by children.
3.4."Extracurricular
activities" means schoolsponsored activities that require enrolled
students to pay a fee in order to participate, including fees for:
(a)Band
uniforms.
(b)Equipment
or uniforms for varsity athletic activities.
(c)Scientific
laboratory materials.
(d)Instate or
outofstate trips that are solely for competitive events.
Extracurricular activities do not include any senior trips or events that are
recreational, amusement or tourist activities.
4.5."Public school" means
a school that is part of a school district, a joint technical education
district or a charter school.
5.6."Standardized testing for
college credit or readiness" includes the SAT, PSAT, ACT, advanced
placement and international baccalaureate diploma tests and other similar
tests.
6.7."Widely recognized and
accepted educational testing organization" means the college board, the
ACT, the international baccalaureate and other organizations that are widely
recognized and accepted by colleges and universities in the United States and
that offer college credit and readiness examinations. END_STATUTE

