







REFERENCE TITLE: governor's economic opportunity office;
  consolidation






State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016





HB 2666









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

amending sections
4-206.01, 11211, 11292 and 151626, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 23, chapter 4, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding sections 23722.03 and 23722.04; amending sections 28332,
286547, 35701, 35702, 35703, 35705, 35706,
35721, 35722, 35726, 35751, 35761, 35762,
35901, 35902, 35903, 35904 and 35905,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 35906, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 35907, 35908, 35909 and 35910,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 35913, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing title 36, chapter 4.2, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 371015, 411052, 411502, 411543, 411544,
411545.02, 411545.05, 411959, 412251, 412252
and 412254, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 413016.16,
413019.03 and 413022.19, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title
41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 413026.01;
repealing title 41, chapter 37, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 413953, 413955 and 413957, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing title 41, chapter 45, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 53; providing for
transferring and renumbering; amending sections 415401 and 415402,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered; amending sections 441843,
441861, 441892, 443324, 443325, 486202, 491201,
491202 and 49-1203, Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies;
relating to economic development.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 4-206.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-206.01.Bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses; number
permitted; fee; sampling privileges
A.The director shall determine the total number of
spirituous liquor licenses by type and in each county.The director
shall publish a listing of that information as determined by the director.
B.In each county, the director, each year, shall
issue additional bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses at the rate of
one of each type for each additional ten thousand person increase over the
population in that county as of July 1, 2010.Any licenses that have
been revoked or reverted in any county after July 1, 2014 may be reissued by
the director in the county of their issuance.The director may waive
the issuance of any series of new, revoked or reverted licenses in a county for
one year where there has been no request made to the department for the
issuance of a new license of that series.For the purposes of this
subsection, the population of a county is deemed to be the population estimated
by the office of employment and population statistics within the
Arizona department of administration governor's economic opportunity office as of
July 1 of each year.
C.A person issued a license authorized by
subsection B of this section shall pay an additional issuance fee equal to the
license's fair market value that shall be paid to the state general fund. The
fair market value shall be defined to mean the mean value of licenses of the
same type sold on the open market in the same county during the prior twelve
months, but if there are not three or more sales then the fair market value
shall be determined by two appraisals furnished to the department by
independent professional appraisers employed by the director.
D.The director shall employ professional appraisal
services to determine the fair market value of bar, beer and wine bar or liquor
store licenses.
E.If more than one person applies for an available
license, a priority of applicants shall be determined by a random selection
method prescribed by the director.
F.After January 1, 2011, bar licenses and beer and
wine bar licenses shall be issued and used only if the clear primary purpose
and actual primary use is for on-sale retailer privileges. The off-sale
privileges associated with a bar license and a beer and wine bar license shall
be limited to use, which is clearly auxiliary to the active primary on-sale
privilege. A bar license or a beer and wine bar license shall not be issued or
used if the associated off-sale use, by total retail spirituous liquor sales,
exceeds thirty per cent percent of the sales price of
on-sale spirituous liquors by the licensee at that location. For dual licenses
issued pursuant to a single site or where a second license is issued to a site
that already has a spirituous liquor license, other than settlement licenses
issued as provided by law, the applicant shall have the burden of establishing
that public convenience and the best interest of the community will be served
by the issuance of the license.
G.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a beer and wine bar license simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a beer and wine bar license and a beer
and wine store license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time.The holder of each license shall fully
comply with all applicable provisions of this title.A beer and wine
bar license and beer and wine store license on the same premises shall be owned
by and issued to the same licensee.
H.The director may issue a beer and wine bar
license to the holder of a liquor store license issued simultaneously at the
same premises.An applicant for a liquor store license and a beer
and wine bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with
all applicable provisions of this title. A liquor store license and a beer and
wine bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.
I.The director may issue a restaurant license to
the holder of a beer and wine bar license issued simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both licenses at
the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with all
applicable provisions of this title. A restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.The limitation set forth in subsection F of this section
with respect to the offsale privileges of the beer and wine bar licenses
shall be measured against the on-sales of beer and wine sales of the
establishment. For the purposes of compliance with section 4205.02,
subsection H, paragraph 2, it shall be conclusively presumed that all on
premises sales of spirituous liquors are made under the authority of the
restaurant license.
J.An applicant for a liquor store license or a beer
and wine store license and the licensee of a liquor store license or a beer and
wine store license may apply for sampling privileges associated with the
license.Beer and wine store premises shall contain at least five
thousand square feet in order to be eligible for sampling privileges.A
person desiring a sampling privilege associated with a liquor store license
shall apply to the director on a form prescribed and furnished by the
director. The application for sampling privileges may be filed for an existing
license or may be submitted with an initial license application.The
request for sampling approval, the review of the application and the issuance
of approval shall be conducted under the same procedures for the issuance of a
spirituous liquor license prescribed in section 4201. After a sampling
privilege has been issued for a liquor store license or a beer and wine store
license, the sampling privilege shall be noted on the license itself and in the
records of the department.The sampling rights associated with a
license are not transferable.The director may charge a fee for
processing the application for sampling privileges and a renewal fee as
provided in this section. A city or town shall not charge any fee relating to
the issuance or renewal of a sampling privilege. Notwithstanding section 4244,
paragraph 19, a liquor store licensee or a beer and wine store licensee that
holds a license with sampling privileges may provide spirituous liquor sampling
subject to the following requirements:
1.Any open product shall be kept locked by the
licensee when the sampling area is not staffed.
2.The licensee is otherwise subject to all other
provisions of this title. The licensee is liable for any violation of this
title committed in connection with the sampling.
3.The licensed retailer shall make sales of sampled
products from the licensed retail premises.
4.The licensee shall not charge any customer for
the sampling of any products.
5.The sampling shall be conducted under the
supervision of an employee of a sponsoring distiller, vintner, brewer,
wholesaler or retail licensee.
6.Accurate records of sampling products dispensed
shall be retained by the licensee.
7.Sampling shall be limited to three ounces of beer
or coolertype products, one and one-half ounces of wine and one ounce of
distilled spirits per person, per brand, per day.
8.The sampling shall be conducted only on the
licensed premises.
K.If a beer and wine bar license and a beer and
wine store license are issued at the same premises, for the purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all spirituous beverages
purchased for sampling are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer
and wine bar license and all spirituous liquor sold off-sale are conclusively
presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store license.
L.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a bar license simultaneously at the same premises. An
applicant for a beer and wine store license and a bar license may consolidate
the application and may apply for both licenses at the same time. The holder
of each license shall fully comply with all applicable provisions of this
title. A beer and wine store license and a bar license on the same premises
shall be owned by and issued to the same licensee. If a beer and wine store
license and a bar license are issued at the same premises, for purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all off-sale beer and wine sales
are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store license.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
11-211, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-211.Membership; qualifications; term
A.There shall be in each
county having a population of one hundred seventy-five thousand or more persons
a board of supervisors consisting of five members who shall be qualified
electors of their supervisorial district, and who shall be elected at a general
election at which the president of the United States is elected. In each
county having a population of less than one hundred seventy-five thousand
persons, a board of supervisors shall consist of three members, except as
prescribed by subsection B or C of this section, who shall be qualified
electors of their supervisorial district and who shall be elected at a general
election at which the president of the United States is
elected.They shall enter on their duties on January 1 subsequent to
their election, and shall hold office for four years.No person
holding any other county or precinct office is eligible to the office of
supervisor.
B.Any county having a population of less than one
hundred fifty thousand persons but more than one hundred thousand persons shall
call an election to change from a threemember to a fivemember
board of supervisors, or from a fivemember to a threemember board
of supervisors, on receipt by the board of supervisors of a petition containing
signatures of qualified electors equal to at least ten per cent percent of the votes cast in the county at the preceding
general election at which a president of the United States was elected. The
board shall submit to the electors in the county, at a special election called
for that purpose, the question whether or not the county shall elect five
members or three members to the board of supervisors. The election shall be
held before the first Monday in January preceding the next general
election.The ballots shall contain the words:"Five
supervisors, yes. Five supervisors, no." or "Three supervisors,
yes. Three supervisors, no." If the majority of the qualified electors
voting on the question votes in the affirmative, the board of supervisors shall
redistrict the county in accordance with section 11212. The county
shall thereafter elect the prescribed number of members to the board of
supervisors who shall be elected in the manner provided in subsection A of this
section and have the same qualifications as provided in subsection A of this
section for a board of supervisors with a population of one hundred seventyfive
thousand or more persons, and shall hold office for a term of four years to
commence on January 1. 
C.Any county having a population of at least one
hundred fifty thousand persons but not more than one hundred seventy-five
thousand persons and having a county board of supervisors that consists of
three persons shall submit to the electors in the county, at the next general
election after the release of the population estimate from the office of employment and population statistics governor's economic opportunity office,
the question of whether the county shall elect five members to the board of
supervisors.The ballots must contain the words: "Five
supervisors, yes. Five supervisors, no." If approved by a majority of
the qualified electors of that county who voted on the question, the board of
supervisors shall redistrict the county pursuant to section 11212.The
county thereafter shall elect at the next general election immediately
following the election at which the question is approved the prescribed number
of members to the board of supervisors who shall have the same qualifications
as provided in subsection A of this section.The following apply to
the election for the county board of supervisors prescribed in this subsection:
1.If the next general election immediately
following the election at which the question is approved is held in a year that
is the last year of the fouryear term of the three members of the county
board of supervisors who are already holding office, the five persons elected
to the county board of supervisors hold office for a term of four years to
commence on January 1 immediately following their election.
2.If the next general election immediately following
the election at which the question is approved is held in a year that is not
the last year of the fouryear term of the three members of the county
board of supervisors who are already holding office, the two additional persons
elected to the county board of supervisors hold office for a term of four years
to commence on January 1 immediately following their election.The
three members of the county board of supervisors who are already holding office
continue to serve their fouryear terms of office without regard to
whether they are residents of the newly redrawn supervisorial districts for the
remainder of those fouryear terms.Thereafter, members of the
board of supervisors must be residents of their supervisorial district and the
term of office for members of that county board of supervisors shall be
staggered four-year terms.
3.For the election at which the question of whether
the county shall elect five members to the board of supervisors is on the
ballot, the county shall include in the publicity pamphlet an estimate of the
cost to the county for each additional member to the board of supervisors.
4.For the purposes of this subsection,
"population" means the population according to the annual population
estimate provided by the office of
employment and population statistics governor's economic opportunity office. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 11-292, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-292.Medical care; definition
A.The board of supervisors,
subject to the applicable provisions of title 42, chapter 17, articles 2 and 3,
shall include in its annual budget an amount
equal to fifty per cent percent of the amount budgeted
by the county board of supervisors or the amount expended, whichever is less,
for the hospitalization and medical care of the indigent sick pursuant to this
article for fiscal year 19801981, except for Yuma and La Paz
counties.The contribution amounts of those counties shall be equal
to the amount Yuma county would have made pursuant to this subsection if a
division had not occurred apportioned between the counties. The office of the
auditor general shall determine the amount Yuma county would otherwise have
included if a division had not occurred and shall then determine the
contribution amounts of Yuma and La Paz counties based on the proportionate
share of the estimated population in these counties as of July 1, 1982.
B.For fiscal year 19941995,
and for each fiscal year thereafter, the state treasurer shall withhold an
amount sufficient to meet the county portion of the nonfederal costs of
providing longterm care system services, pursuant to title 36, chapter
29, article 2, excluding services topersons with developmental
disabilities, from monies otherwise payable to the county
under section 425029, subsection D, paragraph 2. This amount and the
state portion of the nonfederal costs shall be specified in the annual
appropriation for the maintenance and operation of the Arizona health care cost
containment system.For fiscal years 19941995, 19951996
and 19961997, monies shall be withheld from each county based on the
following percentages derived from a state auditor general's certified audit of
fiscal year 19871988 county longterm care and home health care
expenditures, except that amounts withheld shall be adjusted to reflect amounts
paid by counties pursuant to section 362952:
1.Apache: 0.22%
2.Cochise: 
2.49%
3.Coconino: 
0.66%
4.Gila: 2.56%
5.Graham: 
0.64%
6.Greenlee: 
0.34%
7.La Paz: 
0.34%
8.Maricopa: 56.55%
9.Mohave: 
2.73%
10.Navajo: 0.91%
11.Pima: 20.55%
12.Pinal: 
5.09%
13.Santa
Cruz:  1.05%
14.Yavapai: 
3.12%
15.Yuma: 
2.75%
C.In each fiscal year, of the
total amount that is specified in the annual appropriation as the nonfederal
portion of the cost of providing longterm care services and that
portion of the phased-down medicare prescription drug state contribution
attributable to the Arizona longterm care system, excluding services and
phased-down medicare prescription drug state contribution costs associated
withpersons with developmental disabilities, and that
represents an increase from the amount that was specified in the annual appropriation
for the prior fiscal year, the state shall pay fifty per cent percent of the
increase. The remaining nonfederal portion of the costs shall be apportioned
among the counties according to the proportion that each county's net
nonfederal expenditures for longterm care services, excluding services
to persons with developmental disabilities, bears to
the total nonfederal expenditure for all counties two fiscal years earlier,
with the following adjustments in the following order:
1.If the resulting net county
contribution when expressed as an imputed property tax rate per one hundred
dollars of net assessed value exceeds ninety cents, the county's contribution
shall be reduced so that the imputed property tax rate equals ninety cents and
the difference shall be paid by the state.
2.Any county with a native
American population that represents at least twenty per cent percent of the
county's total population according to the most recent United States decennial
census shall contribute an amount equal to the prior fiscal year's contribution
plus fifty per cent percent of the difference between the prior year's contribution were it
calculated using the percentage in subsection B of this section and the current
year's contribution as if its share of the total nonfederal portion of the longterm
care costs had been calculated using the percentage prescribed in subsection B
of this section and the state shall pay any difference from the amount
otherwise required by this subsection.
3.If, after making the adjustments
in this subsection, a county would contribute more than if its contribution
were calculated using the percentage prescribed in subsection B of this section
multiplied by the total nonfederal costs of longterm care services,
excluding services to persons with developmental disabilities, the county's contribution shall be reduced to the sum of its prior
year's contribution plus fifty per
cent percent of the difference
between the prior year's contribution were it calculated using the percentage in
subsection B of this section and the current year's contribution as if its
share of the total nonfederal portion of longterm care costs had been
calculated using the percentage prescribed in subsection B of this section and
the state shall pay any difference from the amount otherwise required by this
subsection.
4.After making all of the adjustments in this
subsection, a statewide per capita county contribution shall be calculated by
summing the contributions for all counties and then dividing the resulting
total by the total state population.If an individual county's
contribution when expressed as a per capita contribution exceeds the statewide
per capita county contribution, the county's contribution shall be reduced so
that the county's contribution equals the statewide per capita contribution and
the difference shall be paid by the state. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"population" means the population estimate approved by the office of employment and population statistics governor's economic opportunity office
for the most recent fiscal year.
D.The director of the Arizona
health care cost containment system administration shall notify each county of
the amount determined pursuant to subsection A of this
section to be included in its annual budget no later than May 1 of each year.
E.If a county does not provide
funding as specified in subsection A of this section,
the state treasurer shall subtract the amount owed to the Arizona health care
cost containment system fund by the county from any payments required to be
made by the state treasurer to that county pursuant to section 425029,
subsection D, paragraph 2, plus interest on that amount pursuant to section 441201
retroactive to the first day the funding was due.If the monies the
state treasurer withholds are insufficient to meet that county's funding
requirement as specified in subsection A of this section, the state treasurer
shall withhold from any other monies payable to that county from whatever state
funding source is available an amount necessary to fulfill that county's
requirement. The state treasurer shall not withhold distributions from the
highway user revenue fund pursuant to title 28, chapter 18, article 2.
F.Each month payment of an amount
equal to onetwelfth of the total amount determined pursuant to
subsection A of this section shall be made to the state
treasurer. Payment of this amount shall be made to the state treasurer on or
before the fifth day of each month.Upon request from the director
of the Arizona health care cost containment system administration, the state
treasurer shall require that up to three months' payments be made in advance,
if necessary.
G.The state treasurer shall
deposit the amounts paid pursuant to subsection F of
this section and amounts withheld pursuant to subsection E of this section in the Arizona health care cost containment system fund established by section 362913.
H.If payments made pursuant to
subsection F of this section exceed the amount required
to meet the costs incurred by the Arizona health care cost containment system
for the hospitalization and medical care of a person who is defined as an eligible person pursuant to
section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision (a),
the director of the Arizona health care cost containment system administration
may instruct the state treasurer either to reduce remaining payments to be paid
pursuant to this section by a specified amount or to provide to the counties
specified amounts from the Arizona health care cost containment system
fund.
I.The amount of the county
contribution to the Arizona health care cost containment system fund established by section 362913 shall
not exceed thirtythree per
cent percent of the amount that
the system administration expended in the county for fiscal year 19831984.For
the purposes of this subsection, system administration expenditures in a county
for fiscal year 19831984 are the total capitation and fee for service
amounts paid by the system administration to providers in a county before
February 1, 1986 for services rendered during fiscal year 19831984 to
persons eligible for the system.
J.The state treasurer shall
deposit the monies withheld from the counties and contributed by the state
pursuant to subsection B of this section in the longterm
care system fund established by section 362913, in twelve equal monthly
installments.The monthly installments shall be deposited in the fund
by the state treasurer by the fourth working day of each
month.
K.By July 1 or within sixty days
after enactment of the annual appropriation for the maintenance and operation
of the Arizona health care cost containment system, whichever is later, and
after consulting with the joint legislative budget committee and the governor's
office of strategic planning and budgeting, the state treasurer shall notify
each county of the amount to be withheld pursuant to subsection B of this section.
L.If the monies deposited in the
longterm care system fund pursuant to subsection J of this section are insufficient to meet the funding requirement as
specified in the annual appropriation for the maintenance and operation of the
Arizona health care cost containment system pursuant to subsection B of this section, the state treasurer shall withhold from any other
monies payable to that county from any available state funding source, other
than the highway user revenue fund, the amount required to fulfill fifty per cent percent of the
funding requirement and shall deposit the monies in the longterm care
system fund. The state shall pay the remaining fifty per cent percent of the
funding requirement.
M.If any monies in the funds for the purpose of title 36, chapter 29, article 2 remain
unexpended at the end of the fiscal year, the director of the Arizona health
care cost containment system administration shall specify to the state
treasurer the amount to be withdrawn from the longterm care system
fund.Of the amount specified, the state treasurer shall distribute
fifty per cent percent to the counties pursuant to subsection B or C of this section. The remaining fifty per cent percent shall
be distributed to the state.
N.The board of supervisors of a
county that is a program contractor pursuant to section 362940 shall
include in its annual budget, subject to title 42, chapter 17, articles 2 and
3, monies received from the Arizona health care cost containment system fund and longterm care system fund for the purposes of title 36,
chapter 29, article2.
O.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary,
beginning in fiscal year 20052006 and in each fiscal year thereafter,
the state treasurer shall withhold a total of two million three hundred
ninety-five thousand four hundred dollars for the county contribution for the
administrative costs of implementing sections 362901.01 and 362901.04
beginning with the second monthly distribution of transaction privilege tax
revenues otherwise distributable after subtracting any amounts withheld for the
county longterm care contribution. Beginning in fiscal year 20062007,
the state treasurer shall adjust the amount withheld according to the annual
changes in the GDP price deflator and as calculated by the joint legislative
budget committee staff. Beginning in fiscal year 20062007, the joint
legislative budget committee shall calculate an additional adjustment of the
allocation required by this subsection based on changes in the population as
reported by the office of employment and
population statistics
governor's economic opportunity office.For the
purposes of this subsection, "GDP price deflator" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 41563. Each county's annual contribution
is as follows:
1.Apache, 3.296 per cent
percent.
2.Cochise, 6.148 per cent
percent.
3.Coconino, 6.065 per cent
percent.
4.Gila, 2.491 per cent percent.
5.Graham, 1.7710 per cent
percent.
6.Greenlee, 0.455 per cent
percent.
7.La Paz, 0.9430 per cent
percent.
8.Mohave, 7.079 per cent
percent.
9.Navajo, 4.640 per cent
percent.
10.Pima, 42.168 per cent
percent.
11.Pinal, 8.251 per cent
percent.
12.Santa Cruz, 1.950 per cent
percent.
13.Yavapai, 7.794 per cent
percent.
14.Yuma, 6.949 per cent
percent.
P.The state treasurer shall deposit the amounts
paid pursuant to subsection O of this section in the budget neutrality
compliance fund established by section 362928.
Q.Beginning in fiscal year 20062007 for a
county that is subject to section 12269, the county's contributions
pursuant to this section shall be reduced by the amount of state aid for
probation services that the county would have received in the first fiscal year
in which the county does not receive state aid for probation services. Any
increase in the county's contributions in subsequent years shall be reduced
according to its proportionate share of the base contribution. County
contributions shall be reduced in the following priority:
1.First as applied to the contribution provided for
in subsection O of this section.
2.Second as applied to the contribution provided
for in subsection A of this section or any other contribution for acute care or
for the provision of hospitalization and medical care that would otherwise be
required.
3.Third as applied to the contribution provided for
in subsection C of this section.
R.Beginning in fiscal year 20072008 for a
county that is subject to section 22117, subsection D, the county's
contributions pursuant to this section shall be reduced by the amount of the
state reimbursement that the county would have received in fiscal year 20072008
for the salaries of justices of the peace pursuant to section 22117,
subsection B. Any increase in the county's contributions in subsequent years
shall be reduced according to its proportionate share of the base
contribution.County contributions shall be reduced in the following
priority:
1.First as applied to the contribution provided for
in subsection O of this section.
2.Second as applied to the contribution provided
for in subsection A of this section or any other contribution for acute care or
for the provision of hospitalization and medical care that would otherwise be
required.
S.For the purposes of this
section, "net assessed value" includes the values used to determine
voluntary contributions collected pursuant to title 9, chapter 4, article 3 and
title 48, chapter 1, article 8. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
15-1626, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1626.General administrative powers and duties of board;
definition
A.The board shall:
1.Have and exercise the powers necessary for the
effective governance and administration of the institutions under its control.
To that end, the board may adopt, and authorize each university to adopt, such
regulations, policies, rules or measures as are deemed necessary and may
delegate in writing to its committees, to its university presidents, or their
designees, or to other entities under its control, any part of its authority
for the administration and governance of such institutions, including those
powers enumerated in section 151625, subsection B, paragraphs 2 and 4,
paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 9, 11 and 12 of this subsection and subsection B of this
section. Any delegation of authority may be rescinded by the board at any time
in whole or in part.
2.Appoint and employ and determine the compensation
of presidents with such power and authority and for such purposes in connection
with the operation of the institutions as the board deems necessary.
3.Appoint and employ and determine the compensation
of vicepresidents, deans, professors, instructors, lecturers, fellows
and such other officers and employees with such power and authority and for
such purposes in connection with the operation of the institutions as the board
deems necessary, or delegate its authority pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
subsection.
4.Remove any officer or employee when the interests
of education in this state so require in accordance with its personnel rules
and policies.
5.Fix tuitions and fees to be charged and
differentiate the tuitions and fees between institutions and between residents,
nonresidents, undergraduate students, graduate students, students from foreign
countries and students who have earned credit hours in excess of the credit
hour threshold. For the purposes of this paragraph, the undergraduate credit
hour threshold is one hundred fortyfive hours for students who attend a
university under the jurisdiction of the board. The undergraduate credit hour
threshold shall be based on the actual fulltime equivalent student
enrollment counted on the fortyfifth day of every fall and spring
semester, divided by two, and any budget adjustment based on student enrollment
shall occur in the fiscal year following the actual fulltime equivalent
student enrollment count. The undergraduate credit hour threshold shall not
apply to degree programs that require credit hours above the credit hour
threshold, credits earned in the pursuit of up to two baccalaureate degrees,
credits earned in the pursuit of up to two state regulated licensures or
certificates, credits earned in the pursuit of teaching certification, credits
transferred from a private institution of higher education, credits transferred
from an institution of higher education in another state, credits earned at
another institution of higher education but that are not accepted as transfer
credits at the university where the student is currently enrolled and credits
earned by students who enroll at a university under the jurisdiction of the board
more than twenty-four months after the end of that student's previous
enrollment at a public institution of higher education in this state. On or
before October 15 of each year, the board shall report to the joint legislative
budget committee the number of instate students and outofstate
students who were enrolled at universities under the jurisdiction of the board
during the previous fiscal year who met or exceeded the undergraduate credit
hour threshold prescribed in this paragraph.The amount of tuition,
registration fees and other revenues included in the operating budget for the
university adopted by the board as prescribed in paragraph 13 of this
subsection shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147.
All other tuition and fee revenue shall be retained by each university for
expenditure as approved by the board, except that the universities shall not
use any tuition or fee revenue to fund or support an alumni association.
6.Except as provided in subsection Iof this
section, adopt rules to govern its tuition and fee setting process that provide
for the following:
(a)At least one public hearing at each university
as an opportunity for students and members of the public to comment on any
proposed increase in tuition or fees.
(b)Publication of the notice of public hearing at
least ten days prior to before the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in Maricopa county, Coconino county and Pima
county. The notice shall include the date, time and location of the public
hearing.
(c)Public disclosure by each university of any
proposed increases in tuition or fees at least ten days prior to before the public hearing.
(d)Final board action on changes in tuition or fees
shall be taken by roll call vote.
The procedural requirements of subdivisions (a), (b), (c) and
(d) of this paragraph apply only to those changes in tuition or fees that
require board approval.
7.Pursuant to section 35115, submit a budget
request for each institution under its jurisdiction that includes the estimated
tuition and fee revenue available to support the programs of the institution as
described in the budget request. The estimated available tuition and fee
revenue shall be based on the tuition and registration fee rates in effect at
the time the budget request is submitted with adjustments for projected changes
in enrollment as provided by the board.
8.Establish curriculums and designate courses at
the several institutions that in its judgment will best serve the interests of
this state.
9.Award such degrees and diplomas on the completion
of such courses and curriculum requirements as it deems appropriate.
10.Prescribe qualifications for admission of all
students to the universities. The board shall establish policies for
guaranteed admission that assure fair and equitable access to students in this
state from public, private and charter schools and homeschools.For
the purpose of determining the qualifications of honorably discharged veterans,
veterans are those persons who served in the armed forces for a minimum of two
years and who were previously enrolled at a university or community college in
this state. No prior failing grades received by the veteran at the university
or community college in this state may be considered.
11.Adopt any energy conservation standards
promulgated by the department of administration for the construction of new
buildings.
12.Employ for such time and purposes as the board
requires attorneys whose compensation shall be fixed and paid by the
board.Litigation to which the board is a party and for which selfinsurance
is not provided may be compromised or settled at the direction of the board.
13.Adopt annually an operating budget for each
university equal to the sum of appropriated general fund monies and the amount
of tuition, registration fees and other revenues approved by the board and
allocated to each university operating budget.
14.In consultation with the state board of
education and other education groups, develop and implement a program to award
honors endorsements to be affixed to the high school diplomas of qualifying
high school pupils and to be included in the transcripts of pupils who are
awarded endorsements.The board shall develop application procedures
and testing criteria and adopt testing instruments and procedures to administer
the program. In order to receive an honors endorsement, a pupil must
demonstrate an extraordinary level of knowledge, skill and competency as
measured by the testing instruments adopted by the board in mathematics,
English, science and social studies. Additional subjects may be added at the
determination of the board. The program is voluntary for pupils.
15.Require the publisher of each literary and
nonliterary textbook used in the universities of this state to furnish computer
software in a standardized format when software becomes available for
nonliterary textbooks to the Arizona board of regents from which braille
versions of the textbooks may be produced.
16.Require universities that provide a degree in education
to require courses that are necessary to obtain a provisional structured
English immersion endorsement as prescribed by the state board of education.
17.Acquire United States flags for each classroom
that are manufactured in the United States and that are at least two feet by
three feet and hardware to appropriately display the United States flags,
acquire a legible copy of the Constitution of the United States and the Bill of
Rights, display the flags in each classroom in accordance with title 4 of the
United States Code and display a legible copy of the Constitution of the United
States and the Bill of Rights adjacent to the flag.
18.To facilitate the transfer of military personnel
and their dependents to and from the public schools of this state, pursue, in
cooperation with the state board of education, reciprocity agreements with
other states concerning the transfer credits for military personnel and their
dependents. A reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to this paragraph
shall:
(a)Address procedures for each of the following:
(i)The transfer of student records.
(ii)Awarding credit for completed course work.
(iii)Permitting a student to satisfy the graduation
requirements prescribed in section 15701.01 through the successful
performance on comparable exit-level assessment instruments administered in
another state.
(b)Include appropriate criteria developed by the
state board of education and the Arizona board of regents.
19.Require a university to publicly post notices of
all of its employment openings, including the title and description,
instructions for applying and relevant contact information.
20.In consultation with the community college
districts in this state, develop and implement common equivalencies for specific
levels of achievement on advanced placement examinations and international
baccalaureate examinations in order to award commensurate postsecondary
academic credits at community colleges and public universities in this state.
21.On or before August 1 of each year, report to
the joint legislative budget committee the graduation rate by university campus
during the previous fiscal year. The board shall also report the retention
rate by university campus and by class, as determined by date of entry during the
previous fiscal year.
B.The board shall adopt personnel policies for all
employees of the board and the universities.
C.In conjunction with the auditor general, the
board shall develop a uniform accounting and reporting system, which shall be
reviewed by the joint legislative budget committee before final adoption by the
board. The board shall require each university to comply with the uniform
accounting and reporting system.
D.The board may employ legal assistance in
procuring loans for the institutions from the United States government. Fees
or compensation paid for such legal assistance shall not be a claim on the
general fund of this state but shall be paid from funds of the institutions.
E.The board shall approve or disapprove any
contract or agreement entered into by the university of Arizona hospital with
the Arizona health facilities
industrial development authority.
F.The board may adopt policies that authorize the
institutions under its jurisdiction to enter into employment contracts with
nontenured employees for periods of more than one year but not more than five
years. The policies shall prescribe limitations on the authority of the
institutions to enter into employment contracts for periods of more than one
year but not more than five years, including the requirement that the board
approve the contracts.
G.The board may adopt a plan or plans for employee
benefits that allow for participation in a cafeteria plan that meets the
requirements of the United States internal revenue code of 1986.
H.The board may establish a program for the
exchange of students between the universities under the jurisdiction of the
board and colleges and universities located in the state of Sonora,
Mexico.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section,
the program may provide for instate tuition at the universities under
the jurisdiction of the board for fifty Sonoran students in exchange for
similar tuition provisions for up to fifty Arizona students enrolled or seeking
enrollment in Sonoran colleges or universities. The board may direct the
universities to work in conjunction with the ArizonaMexico commission to
coordinate recruitment and admissions activities.
I.Subsection A, paragraph 6, subdivisions (a), (b),
(c) and (d) of this section do not apply to fee increases that are set by
individual universities and that do not require approval by the Arizona board
of regents before the fee increase becomes effective.
J.The Arizona board of regents, in collaboration
with the universities under its jurisdiction, shall adopt a performance funding
model. The performance funding model shall use performance metrics that include
the increase in degrees awarded, the increase in completed student credit hours
and the increase in externally generated research and public service funding.
The funding formula may give added weight to degrees related to science,
technology, engineering and mathematics and other highvalue degrees that
are in short supply or that are essential to this state's long-term economic
development strategy.
K.The Arizona board of regents shall use the
performance funding model adopted pursuant to subsection Jof this section
in developing and submitting budget requests for the universities under its
jurisdiction.
L.On or before November 1 of each year, the Arizona
board of regents shall submit to the joint legislative budget committee and the
governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting a report on university
debt and obligations, including:
1.Longterm notes and obligations.
2.Certificates of participation and other
obligations pursuant to any leasepurchase agreements.
3.Revenue bonds.
4.Bonds issued pursuant to section 151682.03.
M.The report issued pursuant to subsection
Lof this section shall contain, for the most recent fiscal year:
1.The aggregate level of outstanding principal and
the principal and interest payments, by type of debt or obligation.
2.An itemization, by campus and project, of the
amount of yearly principal and interest to be paid in the most recent and the
next five fiscal years.
N.The board may enter into an intergovernmental
agreement pursuant to section 15-1747 to manage universities under its
jurisdiction subject to the terms of the reciprocity agreement.
O.For the purposes of this section,
"university debt and obligations" means debt and obligations, the
principal and interest of which are paid in whole or in part with university
monies. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 23, chapter 4, article 5, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 23-722.03 and 23-722.04, to
read:
START_STATUTE23-722.03.Memorandum of understanding; retention; use; definition
A.the
department shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the governor's
economic opportunity office to establish workforce data stewardship pursuant to
section 41-5403 to support the evaluation of workforce and education programs
and the development of labor market information.
B.The
department of economic security, the department of education and the governor's
economic opportunity office shall notify all applicants of and participants in
workforce innovation and opportunity act (P.L. 113128; 128 Stat. 1425)
programs for which this state has reporting, monitoring or evaluation
responsibilities that information obtained on application and during
participation may be used to evaluate program effectiveness and to conduct
research of the labor market.
C.All
workforce evaluation system research products produced with the use of
unemployment insurance information must be submitted to the governor's economic
opportunity office for archival purposes.Research products that do
not contain personally identifiable information must be made available to the
public, and the secretary of state shall hold this information for longterm
retention.
D.For the
purposes of this section, "research products" means the statistical
analyses and reports that are produced by state entities with the use of
unemployment insurance information pursuant to section 23-722.04END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE 23-722.04.Unemployment insurance information;
disclosure; violation; classification
A.The
department or the governor's economic opportunity office may disclose
unemployment insurance information to the following entities:
1.Any
federal, state or local governmental agency in the investigation of fraud
relating to public programs or the MISUSE of public monies.
2.Divisions
of the department, including the employment and rehabilitation services
administrations, for program and research purposes.
3.The
workforce Arizona council for program performance, regional planning and other
program and research purposes.
4.The
department of EDUCATION to evaluate adult education program performance and for
other primary and adult education program and research purposes.
5.Universities
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents and community college
districts to evaluate program performance and for other program and research
purposes.
6.The
United States department of labor, or its agents, or The United States census
bureau, or its agents, as required by law or in connection with the
requirements imposed as a result of receiving federal funding.
7.Department
contractors or subcontractors, or their agents, as the department deems
necessary to carry out its statutory functions. This disclosure must be
consistent with this section.
B.On
the request of one of the entities prescribed in subsection A of this section
to the department or the governor's economic opportunity office, the department
or the governor's economic opportunity office shall disclose unemployment
insurance information to the entity pursuant to guidelines established by the
workforce data task force established by section 415404 and pursuant to
a written data sharing agreement with the requesting entity in a form
determined by the workforce data task force pursuant to the laws of this state
and applicable federal regulations.The department or the governor's
economic opportunity office may disclose the unemployment insurance information
only after the requesting entity has demonstrated that the information will be
kept confidential, except for those purposes for which the information was
provided to the requesting entity, and that the requesting entity has security
safeguards in place to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of the information.
C.Except as
otherwise allowed by law or as otherwise authorized by agreement between the
department of economic security and the United States department of labor, the
department of economic security or the governor's economic opportunity office
may not use federal unemployment insurance grant monies to pay for any costs
incurred in processing and handling requests for disclosure of unemployment
insurance information.The department and the governor's economic opportunity
office, in consultation with the workforce data task force, shall establish a
rate structure that complies with 20 Code of Federal Regulations section 603.8
for costs incurred in processing requests for disclosure of unemployment
insurance information.
D.The
requesting entity may not make public any unemployment insurance information
that identifies an individual or the individual's employer. Any unauthorized
disclosure, including security breaches, shall be reported to the department
and the governor's economic opportunity office immediately. Any person who
knowingly discloses confidential unemployment insurance information in
violation of this section without prior written authorization from the
department or the governor's economic opportunity office or authorization as
otherwise provided by law is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
E.The
governor's economic opportunity office may use unemployment insurance
information to perform economic analysis, for the development of labor market
information and a state workforce evaluation data system and for other program
and research purposes.
F.This
section does not prohibit disclosure that is required or allowed by federal
law. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 28-332, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-332.Department of transportation jurisdiction; duties;
divisions
A.The exclusive control and jurisdiction over state
highways, state routes, state owned airports and all state owned transportation
systems or modes are vested in the department of transportation.
B.The department shall:
1.Register motor vehicles and aircraft, license
drivers, collect revenues, enforce motor vehicle and aviation statutes and
perform related functions.
2.Do multimodal state transportation planning,
cooperate and coordinate transportation planning with local governments and
establish an annually updated priority program of capital improvements for all
transportation modes.
3.Design and construct transportation facilities in
accordance with a priority plan and maintain and operate state highways, state
owned airports and state public transportation systems.
4.Investigate new transportation systems and
cooperate with and advise local governments concerning the development and
operation of public transit systems.
5.Have administrative jurisdiction of
transportation safety programs and implement them in accordance with applicable
law.
C.In order to carry out the responsibilities
enumerated in subsection B of this section, the department is organized into
the following divisions:
1.Motor vehicle.
2.Transportation planning.
3.Highways.
4.Aeronautics.
5.Public transit.
6.Administrative services.
D.The director may do any of the following:
1.Establish divisions in addition to those
prescribed in subsection C of this section.
2.Reorganize the department.
3.Consolidate the department.
E.The
department shall provide general administrative support, equipment and office
and meeting space to the Arizona international development authority
established by title 41, chapter 45. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 28-6547, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-6547.Safety enforcement and transportation infrastructure fund;
exemption from lapsing
A.The safety enforcement and transportation
infrastructure fund is established. The fund consists of monies deposited
pursuant to sections 282321, 282324, 282325, 285474,
285739, 285863 and 285864.The department shall
administer the fund.
B.Subject to legislative appropriation, monies in
the fund shall be spent on the following:
1.Enforcement of vehicle safety requirements by the
department of public safety and the department of transportation within twentyfive
miles of the border between Arizona and Mexico.
2.Costs related to the procurement of electronic
equipment, automated systems or improvements to existing electronic equipment
or automated systems for relieving vehicle congestion at ports of entry on the
border between this state and Mexico.
3.Construction, maintenance and upgrades of
transportation facilities, including roads, streets and highways, approved by
the board within twentyfive miles of the border between Arizona and
Mexico.
4.As approved by the board, construction and
maintenance of transportation facilities in the CANAMEX high priority corridor
as defined in section 332 of the national highway system designation act of
1995 (P.L.10459; 109 Stat. 596597).
5.Activities of the department that include the
collection of transportation and trade data in the United States and Mexico for
the purposes of constructing transportation facilities, improving public
safety, improving truck processing time and relieving congestion at ports of
entry on the border between Arizona and Mexico.The department may
enter into an agreement with the Arizona-Mexico commission and provide funding
to the commission for the purposes contained in this paragraph.
6.A commitment or investment necessary for the
department or another agency of this state to obtain federal monies that are
designated for expenditure pursuant to this section.
C.If the department of transportation determines
that activities proposed by the Arizona department of homeland security may
improve traffic safety in this state, the department of transportation may
enter into an agreement with, and provide, subject to legislative
appropriation, fund monies to the Arizona department of homeland security for
the purposes contained in this subsection.
D.If the
department determines that activities proposed by the Arizona international
development authority for planning, development and construction of transportation
facilities on the border between Arizona and Mexico may improve traffic safety
in this state, the department may enter into an agreement with, and provide,
subject to legislative appropriation, fund monies to the Arizona international
development authority for the purposes contained in this subsection.
E.D.On notice from
the department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund
as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
F.E.Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 35-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-701.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Corporation" means any corporation
organized as an authority as provided in this chapter.
2."Governing body" means:
(a)The board or body in which the general
legislative powers of the municipality or the county are vested.
(b)The Arizona board of regents with respect to a
corporation formed with the permission of the Arizona board of regents.
(c)The Arizona finance authority
board of directors established by title 41, chapter 53, article 2.
3."Income" means gross earnings from
wages, salary, commissions, bonuses or tips from all jobs, net earnings from
such person's or family's own nonfarm business, professional practice or
partnership, and net earnings from such person's or family's own farm. Income
includes income, other than earnings, that consists of amounts received from
social security or railroad retirement, interest, dividends, veterans payments,
pensions and other regular payments, public assistance or welfare payments,
including aid for dependent children, old age assistance and aid to the blind
or persons with total disability, but excluding separate payments for hospital
or other medical care.
4."Manufactured house" means a structure
that is manufactured in a factory after June 15, 1976, that is delivered to a
homesite in more than one section and that is placed on a permanent
foundation. The dimensions of the completed house shall not be less than twenty
feet by forty feet, the roof must be sloping, the siding and roofing must be
the same as those found in sitebuilt houses and the house must be
eligible for thirty year real estate mortgage financing.
5."Municipality" or "county"
means the Arizona finance authority,
the Arizona board of regents or any incorporated city or town, including
charter cities, or any county in this state in which a corporation may be
organized and in which it is contemplated the corporation will function.
6."Persons of low and moderate income"
means, for the purposes of financing owneroccupied single family
dwelling units in areas that the municipality has found, pursuant to section 361479,
to be slum or blighted areas, as defined in section 361471, persons and
families whose income does not exceed two and onehalf times the median
family income of this state.In all other areas it means persons and
families whose income does not exceed one and onehalf times the median
family income of this state.
7."Project" means any land, any building
or any other improvement and all real and personal properties, including
machinery and equipment whether or not now in existence or under construction
and whether located within or without this state or the municipality or county
approving the formation of the corporation, that are suitable for any of the
following:
(a)With respect to a corporation formed with the
permission of the Arizona finance
authority, a municipality or a county other than the Arizona board of
regents:
(i)Any enterprise for the manufacturing, processing
or assembling of any agricultural or manufactured products.
(ii)Any commercial enterprise for the storing,
warehousing, distributing or selling of products of agriculture, mining or
industry, or of processes related thereto, including research and development.
(iii)A health care institution as defined in
section 36401.
(iv)Residential real property for dwelling units
located within the municipality or county approving the formation of the
corporation and, in the case of a county, whether or not also within a
municipality that is within the county.
(v)Repairing or rehabilitating single family
dwelling units or constructing or repairing residential fences and walls.
(vi)Convention or trade show facilities.
(vii)Airports, docks, wharves, mass commuting
facilities, parking facilities or storage or training facilities directly
related to any of the facilities as provided in this item.
(viii)Sewage or solid waste disposal facilities or
facilities for the furnishing of electric energy, gas or water.
(ix)Industrial park facilities.
(x)Air or water pollution control facilities.
(xi)Any educational institution that is operated by
a nonprofit educational organization that is exempt from taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code and that is not otherwise
funded by state monies, any educational institution or organization that is
established under title 15, chapter 1, article 8 and that is owned by a
nonprofit organization, any private nonsectarian school or any private
nonsectarian organization established for the purpose of funding a joint
technical education school district.
(xii)Research and development facilities.
(xiii)Any commercial enterprises, including
facilities for manufacturing, office, recreational, hotel, motel and service
uses.
(xiv)A child welfare agency, as defined in section
8501, owned and operated by a nonprofit organization.
(xv)A transportation facility constructed or
operated pursuant to title 28, chapter 22.
(xvi)A museum operated by a nonprofit organization.
(xvii)Facilities owned or operated by a nonprofit
organization described in section 501(c) of the United States internal revenue
code of 1986.
(xviii)New or existing correctional facilities within
this state.
(b)With respect to a corporation formed with the
permission of the Arizona board of regents, any facility consisting of
classrooms, lecture halls or conference centers or any facility for research
and development or for manufacturing, processing, assembling, marketing,
storing and transferring items developed through or connected with research and
development or in which the results of such research and development are
utilized, but only if the facility is located in an area designated as a
research park by the Arizona board of regents.
8."Property" means any land, improvements
thereon, buildings and any improvements thereto, machinery and equipment of any
and all kinds necessary to a project and any other personal properties deemed
necessary in connection with a project.
9."Research park" means an area of land
that has been designated by the Arizona board of regents as a research park for
a university and that, at the date of designation, is owned by this state or by
the Arizona board of regents.
10."Single family dwelling unit" includes
any new, used or manufactured house that meets the insuring requirements of the
federal housing administration, the United States department of veterans
affairs or any other insuring entity of the United States government or any
private mortgage insurance or surety company that is approved by the federal
home loan mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 35-702, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-702.Proceedings to incorporate industrial development
authority
A.Whenever any number of natural persons, not less
than three, each of whom is a qualified elector of the municipality or the
county or, in the case of a corporation to be formed with the permission of the Arizona finance authority or the
Arizona board of regents, qualified electors of this state, file with any
governing body thereof an application in writing seeking permission to apply
for the incorporation of an industrial development board of such the
municipality or county, such
the governing body shall
consider such the application.If
the governing body by resolution finds and determines that it is wise,
expedient, necessary or advisable that the corporation be formed and authorizes
the persons making such the application to form such the corporation, then the persons making such the application shall proceed to incorporate
as prescribed by this chapter.No A corporation
may not be formed unless such the application first has been filed with the
governing body having jurisdiction and the governing body adopts a resolution
as provided in this section.Any such corporation when formed shall be a
political subdivision of the
this state and have only such the governmental powers as are set forth in
this chapter, or in chapter 6 of this title
and the power to enter into intergovernmental agreements in accordance with
title 11, chapter 7, article 3.
B.Only one such
corporation shall be approved by a municipality or county for operation at any
time. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 35-703, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-703.Articles of incorporation of industrial development
authority
In addition to the requirements of title 10, the articles of
incorporation shall set forth:
1.The names and residences of the applicants,
together with a recital that each of them is a qualified elector of the
municipality or the county or, in the case of a corporation to be formed with
the permission of the Arizona finance
authority or the Arizona board of regents, a qualified elector of
this state.
2.The name of the corporation, which shall be
"the industrial development authority of the ____________ of
_____________," (the blank spaces to be filled in with the name of the
municipality or the county).In the case of a corporation formed with the
permission of the Arizona finance authority the name shall be the "Arizona
industrial development authority". In the case of a
corporation formed with the permission of the Arizona board of regents the name
shall be the "Arizona research park authority".
3.A recital that permission to organize the
authority has been granted by resolution duly adopted by the governing body of
the municipality or county and the date of the adoption of such resolution.
4.The location of the principal office of the
authority, which shall be in the municipality or county.In the case
of a corporation formed with the permission of the Arizona board of regents the
principal office of the corporation shall be the principal office of the Arizona
board of regents. In the case of a
corporation formed with the permission of the Arizona finance authority, the
Arizona finance authority is the principal office of the corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 35-705, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-705.Board of directors
The authority shall have a board of directors in which all
powers of the authority shall be vested and which that
shall consist of any number of directors, not less than three nor
more than nine, all of whom shall be duly qualified electors of the
municipality or county with respect to which the authority was
formed.In the case of a corporation formed with the permission of
the Arizona board of regents the directors must be qualified electors of this
state.In the case of a
corporation formed with the permission of the Arizona finance authority, the
Arizona finance authority board shall serve as the board of the industrial
development authority. The directors shall serve as such without compensation, except that they the directors shall be reimbursed for their
actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties in the same manner
as is provided for other state officers.No A director
shall not be an officer
or employee of the authorizing municipality or county.All directors
shall declare any conflict of interest as provided in title 38, chapter 3,
article 8.The directors shall be elected by the governing body of
the authorizing municipality or county, and they shall be so elected that they
shall hold office for overlapping terms.At the time of the election
of the first board of directors the governing body of the municipality or the
county shall divide the directors into three groups containing as nearly equal
whole numbers as possible.The first term of the directors included
in the first group shall be two years, the first term of the directors included
in the second group shall be four years, the first term of the directors
included in the third group shall be six years, and thereafter the terms of all
directors shall be six years.The governing body may remove a
director at any time, with or without cause. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 35-706, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-706.Corporate powers
A.In addition to the powers granted to an
industrial development authority by law, the authority has the following
powers, together with all powers incidental or necessary for the performance of
those powers:
1.To acquire, whether by purchase, exchange, gift,
lease or otherwise establish, construct, improve, maintain, equip and furnish
one or more projects.
2.To lease to others any or all of its projects, to
charge and collect rent and to terminate any lease on the failure of the lessee
to comply with any of the obligations of the lease.
3.To sell, exchange, donate and convey to others any
or all of its projects or properties on terms and conditions as its board of
directors may deem advisable, including the power to receive for any sale the
note or notes of the purchaser of the project or property, whenever its board
of directors finds the action to further advance the interest of the
corporation.
4.To issue its bonds for the purpose of carrying
out any of its powers.
5.To mortgage and pledge any or all of its projects
and properties, whether owned or acquired, and to pledge the revenues, proceeds
and receipts or any portion of the revenues, proceeds and receipts from a
project as security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
bonds so issued and any agreements made in connection therewith.
6.To contract with and employ others to provide and
to pay compensation for professional services and other services as the board
of directors deems necessary for the financing of projects and for the business
of the corporation.
7.To refund outstanding obligations incurred by an
enterprise to finance the cost of a project when the board of directors finds
that the refinancing is in the public interest.
8.To invest and reinvest funds under the control of
the corporation and bond proceeds pending application thereof to the purposes
for which the bonds were issued, subject only to the provisions of any bond
resolution, lease or other agreement entered into by the board of directors.
9.To make secured or unsecured loans for the
purpose of financing or refinancing the acquisition, construction, improvement,
equipping or operating of a project and to charge and collect interest on the
loans and pledge the proceeds of loan agreements as security for the payment of
the principal and interest of any bonds, or designated issues of bonds, issued
by the corporation, and any agreements made in connection with the loan,
whenever the board of directors finds the loans to further advance the interest
of the corporation or the public.
10.To acquire and hold obligations of any kind to
carry out any of its purposes.
11.Subject to this section, to make loans to any
bank, savings and loan institution, credit union or other mortgage lender,
whether organized or existing under the laws of this state, another state or
the United States, that is qualified to do business in this state, for the
purpose of enabling the institutions to make loans to finance the acquisition,
construction, improvement or equipping of projects that are owneroccupied
single family dwelling units to be occupied by persons of low and moderate
income, as determined by the corporation.The loans shall be fully
secured in the same manner as deposits of public funds or by loans secured by
mortgages, deeds of trust or other security instruments guaranteed or insured
by the United States, or any instrumentality thereof, or by any private
mortgage insurance or surety company that is approved by the federal home loan
mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association and that is
licensed to do business in this state, if the private mortgage insurance shall
be in a dollar amount sufficient to satisfy the mortgage insurance requirements
for loans eligible to be purchased by the federal home loan mortgage
corporation or the federal national mortgage association or any other agency or
department of the United States.The security shall not be necessary
if the bonds issued to make the loans are guaranteed or insured by an agency,
department or instrumentality of the United States.Any bonds issued
to make loans shall be ratable as "A" or better by a nationally
recognized bond rating agency.
12.Subject to this section, to purchase or enter
into advance commitments to purchase loans or any loan interests secured by
mortgages, deeds of trust or other security instruments relating to projects
that are owneroccupied single family dwelling units from or with any
bank, savings and loan institution, credit union or other mortgage lender,
whether organized or existing under the laws of this state, another state or
the United States, that is qualified to do business in this state, on terms and
conditions as may be determined by the corporation.The purpose of
the purchases shall be to finance directly or indirectly the acquisition,
construction, improvement or equipping of projects that are owneroccupied
single family dwelling units to be occupied by persons of low and moderate
income.If the bonds issued to make purchases are not guaranteed or
insured by an agency, department or instrumentality of the United States or
secured by a letter of credit, insurance policy, surety bond or other credit
facility from a financial institution or a combination of such instruments, the
purchased loans shall be guaranteed or insured by the United States or any
agency, department, or instrumentality thereof, or by any private mortgage
insurance or surety company that is approved by the federal home loan mortgage
corporation or the federal national mortgage association or secured by a letter
of credit, insurance policy, surety bond or other credit facility from a
financial institution or a combination of such instruments.In the
case of private mortgage insurance, the insurance shall be in a dollar amount
sufficient to satisfy the mortgage insurance requirements for loans eligible to
be purchased by the federal home loan mortgage corporation or the federal
national mortgage association or any other agency or department of the United
States.Any bonds issued to purchase loans shall be ratable as
"A" or better by a nationally recognized bond rating agency.If
the purchased loans have not been originated on behalf of the corporation to
directly finance projects, the corporation shall require that the institution
receiving proceeds from the sale of the loans use the proceeds to make loans to
finance or refinance the acquisition, construction, improvement or equipping of
projects that are owneroccupied single family dwelling units to be
occupied by persons of low and moderate income, as determined by the
corporation.
13.To elect not to issue an amount of qualified
mortgage revenue bonds which it may otherwise issue during any calendar year
and to issue instead mortgage credit certificates pursuant to a qualified
mortgage credit certificate program as defined in section 35901.
14.To make loans to any person or entity owning
residential property or to make loans to any bank, savings and loan
association, credit union or other mortgage lender, or to purchase or enter
into advance commitments to purchase funding for the repair or improvement of
property related to residential or neighborhood improvement
projects.An authority may issue its bonds or incur other
obligations to fund loans or purchases.An authority shall establish
the provisions relating to bonds or other obligations, including the security for
the loans, and shall establish the guidelines for the approval, funding,
purchasing and security of the loans.
15.To enter into contracts and execute any
agreements or instrument and do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry
out its purposes.
16.To exercise the powers granted by this chapter,
including through the issuance of bonds, to provide financing or refinancing
for projects other than a project as defined in section 35701, paragraph
7, subdivision (a), item (ii), located in whole or in part outside this state,
provided that the board of directors of the corporation has determined that the
exercise of such powers will provide a benefit within this state.
B.The corporation shall not have the power to
operate any project as a business other than as lessor or seller nor shall any
corporation make any loans pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 9 of this
section for projects that are owneroccupied single family dwelling units
except by utilizing as its contract agent a mortgage lender, whether organized
or existing under the laws of this state, another state or the United States,
that is qualified to do business in this state.Any project
established pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 14 of this section is not
required to use a mortgage lender as its contract agent.The
corporation shall not permit any funds derived from the sale of its bonds to be
used, loaned or provided for the acquisition of any facilities of a public
utility or public service corporation, except as provided in section 35701.The
corporation shall comply with title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1.
C.A person's or family's eligibility for an owneroccupied
single family dwelling unit financed pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 11, 12
or 13 of this section shall be determined by considering the person's or
family's income.Owneroccupied single family dwelling units
shall only be financed as provided in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of
this section unless the owneroccupied single family dwelling units are
located in an area designated pursuant to section 361479 as a slum or
blighted area as defined in section 361471 by a municipality having a
population of more than two hundred fifty thousand persons according to the
most recent United States decennial census or a special census conducted in
accordance with section 425033.
D.In the exercise of its powers authorized in this
section with respect to projects that are owneroccupied single family
dwelling units to be occupied by persons of low and moderate income and
financed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 11 and 12 of this section, the
corporation shall establish, subject to approval by the governing body of the
authorizing county or municipality, standards and requirements applicable to
the purchase of loans or the making of loans to mortgage lenders, including:
1.The eligibility of mortgage lenders, including
the requirement that all mortgage lenders be approved as mortgagees by the
federal housing administration and the United States department of veterans
affairs and be approved as sellers and servicers of mortgage loans by the
federal national mortgage association or federal home loan mortgage
corporation.
2.The time within which mortgage lenders must make
commitments and disbursements for mortgage loans.
3.The character of residences to be financed by
mortgage loans.
4.The eligibility of persons of low and moderate
income, including the requirement that no person of low and moderate income may
receive, more than once in a threeyear period, a mortgage loan
financed directly or indirectly from the proceeds of bonds issued by the
corporation.
5.The terms and conditions of mortgage loans to be
acquired.
6.The amounts and types of insurance coverage
required on residences, mortgages and bonds.
7.The representations and warranties of mortgage
lenders confirming compliance with the standards and requirements.
8.Restrictions as to interest rate and other terms
of mortgage loans and the return realized on mortgage loans by mortgage
lenders.
9.The type and amount of collateral security to be
provided to assure repayment of any loans from the corporation and to assure
repayment of bonds.
10.Assignment of the mortgage loans to a trustee
acting on behalf of the corporation which shall be either a bank or trust
company doing business in this state, having an officially reported combined
capital surplus, undivided profits and reserves of not less than fifteen
million dollars. Trustees must be approved to sell mortgages to and service
mortgages for the federal national mortgage association and the federal home
loan mortgage corporation.
11.Any other matters related to the purchase of
mortgage loans or the making of loans to mortgage lenders deemed relevant by
the corporation. In establishing standards and requirements, the corporation
shall be guided by the following standards:
(a)The amount of mortgage monies proposed to be
made available in the area is to be reasonably related to the demand for
mortgage monies.
(b)For projects of owneroccupied single
family dwelling units to be occupied by persons of low and moderate income and
financed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 11 and 12 of this section, at
least ten percent of all mortgage monies proposed to be made available by the
corporations other than mortgage monies reserved for any period to finance
mortgage loans on residences located within an area designated as a slum or
blighted area as defined in section 361471 shall be reserved for at
least a three month period for the financing of mortgage loans on manufactured
housing unless the Arizona commerce authority determines that any bonds issued
to make loans will not be ratable as "A" or better by a nationally
recognized bond rating agency, in which case no such reservation is required.If
all the mortgage monies reserved for manufactured housing are not committed or
used to make mortgage loans during this three month period, the mortgage lender
may allocate the remaining monies to finance mortgage loans on any single
family dwelling unit.
(c)Any departure from the level of commitment fees,
origination fees or servicing fees normally charged by a mortgage lender is to
be justified in the context of the transaction.
(d)The costs, fees and expenditures associated with
the issuance of bonds are to be reasonably related to the services provided.
E.Only corporations, the formations of which have
been approved by the governing body of a county having a population of more
than seven percent of the total state population computed according to the most recent United States decennial
census or by the governing body of a municipality having a
population of more than seven percent of the total state population computed according to the most recent United
States decennial census, shall have the powers granted in
subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section. Except as provided in section 35913, subsections E and
F, A corporation shall not exercise the powers granted in
subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section outside of its jurisdiction.For
the purposes of a refunding of any mortgage revenue bond issued before January
1, 2000, the proceeds from the refunding may be used outside the jurisdiction
of the corporation issuing the refunding bonds except the corporation issuing
the refunding bonds shall obtain the consent from another corporation with
powers granted in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section if the
proceeds of the refunding are to be used within the jurisdiction of that
corporation.For the purposes of exercising the powers granted in
subsectionA, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section, the jurisdiction
of a corporation formed on behalf of a county includes all incorporated and
unincorporated territory in the county.
F.A corporation may not permit proceeds of bonds or
a qualified mortgage credit certificate program to be used to finance projects
that are owneroccupied single family dwelling units within the corporate
limits of an incorporated city or town unless the governing body of the city or
town has approved the general location and character of the residences to be
financed. The corporation, prior to the issuance of bonds or mortgage credit
certificates for that purpose, shall give written notice to the governing body
of each city or town in which it intends to permit proceeds of an issue of
bonds or mortgage credit certificates to be used to finance projects that are
owneroccupied single family dwelling units and of the general location
and character of the residences that may be financed.The governing
body of the city or town shall be deemed to have given its approval unless it
has denied approval by formal action of the governing body within twentyone
days after receiving the written notice from the corporation. Approvals given
or deemed to have been given with respect to use of proceeds of an issue of
bonds or mortgage credit certificates under this subsection may not be
withdrawn. Denials may be withdrawn by the governing body of a city or town
and approval may be given thereafter if the corporation issuing the bonds or
mortgage credit certificates approves the withdrawal of the denial.
G.Two or more corporations with the powers granted
by subsection E of this section may provide:
1.That a corporation, the formation of which was approved
by the governing body of a county or city, may exercise the powers granted in
subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section, with respect to owneroccupied
single family dwelling units located in all counties and cities that are
parties to a cooperative agreement.
2.For the joint exercise by two or more
corporations, each formed with the approval of a governing body executing the
cooperative agreement, of the powers granted in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12
and 13 of this section, with respect to owneroccupied single family
dwelling units located in all counties and cities that are parties to the
cooperative agreement.The agreement shall specify the calendar year
or years for which it is effective, the means by which the agreement may be
terminated prior to the expiration of the calendar year or years and the
aggregate principal amount of bonds that may be issued by the designated
corporation or corporations to exercise the powers pursuant to the
agreement.The corporation or corporations designated in the
agreement to exercise the powers in the counties and cities that are parties to
the agreement are the only corporation or corporations authorized and having
jurisdiction to exercise the powers and to issue bonds to carry out the powers
in the counties and cities while the agreement is in effect. The combined
jurisdictions of all the counties and cities that are parties to the
cooperative agreement are the jurisdictions of the corporation or corporations
designated to exercise the powers granted in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12
and 13 of this section within the meaning of the mortgage subsidy bond tax act
of 1980 (P.L. 96499; 26 United States Code section 103A).
H.It shall not be a conflict of interest under
title 38, chapter 3, article 8, and this chapter, for any trustee or any
mortgage lender to enter into loan agreements with, or to sell mortgage loans
to, the corporation as contemplated in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13
of this section, act for or under contract with the corporation as a mortgage
originator, servicer, paying agent or depository, act as holder or dealer of
bonds of the corporation or have as a director, officer or employee any member
of the board of directors of the corporation or any combination.
I.The department of economic security shall once in
each calendar year on or before March 1 determine the median family income of
this state for the purposes of this chapter.
J.All areas in this state that are either
designated pursuant to section 361479 as slum or blighted areas as
defined in section 361471 or designated as pockets of poverty by the
United States department of housing and urban development are designated as
areas of chronic economic distress within the meaning of the mortgage subsidy
bond tax act of 1980 (P.L. 96499; 26 United States Code section 103A).
K.Any corporation that is described in subsection E
of this section and that desires to exercise the powers granted in subsection
A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section, with respect to owneroccupied
single family dwelling units located in two or more counties, may do so if the
corporation, before issuing bonds or mortgage credit certificates for that
purpose, gives written notice to the governing bodies of the other counties and
their respective corporations, if any, of its intent to permit the proceeds of
an issue of bonds or mortgage credit certificates to finance projects within
its jurisdiction that are owneroccupied single family dwelling
units.The governing body of a county and its respective
corporation, if any, that have been given notice are deemed to have approved
the use of the proceeds or mortgage credit certificates for owneroccupied
single family dwelling units within their jurisdiction and approved the use of
any state ceiling, as defined in section 35901, unless approval is
denied by formal action of the governing body or the board of directors of the
corporation, if any, within twentyone days after receiving written
notice from the corporation.Absent a denial of approval as stated
in this subsection, a cooperative agreement providing for the exercise of the
powers granted in subsection A, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of this section is
deemed to exist among the applicable counties or
corporations.Approvals given or deemed to have been given with
respect to the matters stated in this subsection may not be withdrawn. Denials
by the governing body of a county apply only to the unincorporated areas of the
county.Denials may be withdrawn by the governing body of a county
and approval may be given thereafter if the corporation issuing the bonds or
mortgage credit certificates approves the withdrawal of the denial. Mortgage
credit certificates and bond proceeds issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be available on an equitable basis within each of the participating counties.
L.The corporation within thirty days shall upon on actual notice notify the governing body of:
1.Any lawsuit filed against the corporation related
to the issuance of bonds.
2.Any formal investigation of the corporation
initiated by the United States securities and exchange commission. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 35-721, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-721.Bonds of the corporation
A.All principal and interest of bonds issued by the
corporation shall be payable solely out of the revenues, proceeds and receipts
derived from the corporation's sale of property, loan repayments or lease
rentals, or out of the proceeds of bonds issued hereunder, or of any revenues,
proceeds and receipts thereof as shall be specified in the proceedings of the
board of directors under which the bonds shall be authorized to be issued.
B.The proceedings under which such bonds are to be
issued shall require the approval of the governing body of each issuance of
bonds.
C.The bonds prescribed by subsection A of this section may:
1.Be executed and delivered by the corporation at
any time and from time to time.
2.Be in such form and denominations and of such
tenor and maturities.
3.Be in registered or bearer form either as to
principal or interest or both.
4.Be payable in such installments and at such time
or times not exceeding forty years from the date thereof.
5.Be payable at such place or places within or
without the state of Arizona
this state. 
6.Bear interest at such rate or rates, payable at
such time or times and at such place or places and evidenced in such manner.
7.Be executed by such officers of the corporation
and in such manner, and may contain such provisions not inconsistent herewith,
all as shall be provided in the proceedings of the board of directors
whereunder the bonds are authorized to be issued.
D.If deemed advisable by the board of directors,
there may be retained in the proceedings under which any bonds of the
corporation are authorized to be issued an option to redeem all or any part
thereof as may be specified in such proceedings, at such price or prices and after
such notice or notices and on such terms and conditions as may be set forth in
such proceedings and as may be briefly recited on the face of the bonds, but
nothing in this article shall be construed to confer on the corporation any
right or option to redeem any bonds except as may be provided in the
proceedings under which they shall be issued.
E.Any bonds of the corporation may be sold at
public or private sale in such manner and from time to time as may be
determined by the board of directors of the corporation to be most
advantageous, and the corporation may pay all expenses, premiums and
commissions which its board of directors may deem necessary or advantageous in
connection with the issuance thereof. Issuance by the corporation of one or
more series of bonds for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from
issuing other bonds in connection with the same project or any other project,
but the proceedings whereunder any subsequent bonds may be issued shall
recognize and protect any prior pledge or mortgage made for any prior issue of
bonds. Any bonds of the corporation at any time outstanding may at any time
and from time to time be refunded by the corporation by the issuance of its
refunding bonds in such amount as the board of directors may deem necessary but
not exceeding an amount sufficient to refund the principal of the bonds so to
be refunded, together with any unpaid interest thereon and any premiums and
commissions necessary to be paid in connection therewith.Any such
refunding may be effected whether the bonds to be refunded shall have then
matured or shall thereafter mature, either by sale of the refunding bonds and
the application of the proceeds thereof for the payment of the bonds to be
refunded thereby, or by the exchange of the refunding bonds for the bonds to be
refunded thereby with the consent of the holders of the bonds so to be
refunded, and regardless of whether or not the bonds to be refunded were issued
in connection with the same projects or separate projects, and regardless of
whether or not the bonds proposed to be refunded shall be payable at the same
date or different dates or shall be due serially or otherwise.All
such bonds and the interest coupons applicable thereto are hereby made and
shall be construed to be negotiable instruments.
F.Unless
the corporation was approved by the Arizona finance authority, the
corporation shall notify the attorney general of its intention to issue
bonds.Such notification shall adequately describe the project. The
attorney general shall inform the corporation within ten days if in his the attorney general's opinion the project
sought to be financed does not come within the purview of this chapter. If
after ten days the attorney general has not issued an opinion that the project
does not so conform, the corporation may issue such bonds. If the attorney
general's negative opinion is issued within ten days, such bonds shall not be
issued.No
Action shall not be
brought questioning the legality of any contract, lease, mortgage, proceedings
or the issuance of bonds hereunder from and after ninety calendar days from after the date the bonds are authorized to be
issued by the governing body. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section
35-722, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-722.Approval by elected official if required by federal law
The governor, or
the attorney general, or the state treasurer if designated by the
governor, may approve the issuance of any bonds issued by a corporation formed
with the permission of the Arizona
finance authority or the Arizona board of regents for purposes of
complying with federal laws requiring approval by an applicable elected
representative. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 35-726, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-726.Approval of general plan before issuing bonds; fee;
definition
A.Bonds shall not be issued by a corporation for
the purpose of financing single family dwelling units pursuant to section 35706,
subsection A, paragraph 11 or 12 without approval of a general plan by its
governing body.The corporation shall submit a general plan for each
respective series of bonds to its governing body.The general plan
shall briefly describe:
1.The amount of the proposed bonds.
2.The maximum term of the bonds.
3.The maximum interest rate on the bonds.
4.The need for the bond issue.
5.The terms and conditions for originating or
purchasing mortgage loans or making loans to lenders.
6.The area in which the single family dwelling
units to be financed may be located.
7.The proposed fees, charges and expenditures to be
paid for originators, servicers, trustees, custodians, mortgage administrators
and others.
8.All insurance requirements with respect to
mortgage loans, mortgaged property, mortgagors, originators, servicers and
trustees.
9.The anticipated date of issuance of the bonds.
B.The governing body shall review general plans
submitted by corporations pursuant to subsection A of this
section.In reviewing the plans the governing body shall consider:
1.Whether the amount of the mortgage monies
proposed to be made available is reasonably related to the demand for the
mortgage monies.
2.Whether the terms of the general plan are
justifiable in the context of the transaction and in the context of similar
transactions.
3.Whether the fees, costs and expenditures as set
forth in the general plan are reasonably related to the services provided.
4.For projects of owneroccupied single
family dwelling units to be occupied by persons of low and moderate income and
financed pursuant to section 35706, subsection A, paragraphs 11 and 12,
whether the proposed mortgage monies to be made available will fulfill a public
purpose by providing housing for persons of low and moderate income or by
encouraging single family developments in all participating jurisdictions,
including such jurisdictions' slum or blighted areas as defined in section 361471.
C.The governing body shall approve or disapprove
the general plan not later than thirty days after receipt of the
plan.If the governing body does not act upon on
the general plan within thirty days from after
the date of receipt, the general plan shall be deemed
approved.If a general plan is approved, the corporation may issue
the series of bonds covered by the general plan with a total principal amount,
maximum term and maximum interest rate no greater than that which is set forth
in the general plan.The origination and servicing fees pertaining
to mortgage loans to be financed in accordance with the general plan shall not
exceed those proposed in the general plan.The corporation may vary
other items in the general plan upon
on a finding that the
variation is minor and that the variations will not impair the security for the
bonds or substantially increase the cost of financing the single family
dwelling units and the findings of the corporation shall be conclusive.
D.The governing body may charge any corporation
submitting a general plan for review a fee of not to exceed ten thousand
dollars together with reimbursement of its actual costs and expenses incurred
in reviewing the general plan.
E.Except for a corporation approved by the Arizona finance authority or a
governing body of a county or a municipality having a population of more than
seven per cent percent of the total state
population computed according to the most
recent United States decennial census, a corporation shall not
issue bonds, other than refunding bonds the proceeds of which are used
exclusively to refund a prior bond issue, to finance a multifamily residential
rental project, sanitarium, clinic, medical hotel, rest home, nursing home,
skilled nursing facility or life care facility as prescribed in section 201801,
unless the department approves the project.The department, with or
without a hearing, shall review the project and consider at least the following
factors:
1.The demand for and feasibility of the project in
the area set forth in the application to the corporation.
2.The terms and conditions of the proposed bonds.
3.The proposed use of bond proceeds.
4.The benefit to the public if the project provides
rental housing for persons of low and moderate income or encourages rental
housing in slum or blighted areas as defined in section 361471.
5.If the project consists of a nursing home, or a
life care facility as prescribed in section 201801, the benefit to the
public of the project, including the proposed rent, fees and other charges of
the project in relation to the level of services to be offered.
F.Subsection E of this section does not apply to
bonds issued to finance:
1.A sanitarium, clinic, medical hotel, rest home,
nursing home, skilled nursing facility, or life care facility as prescribed in
section 201801, if the facility is to be owned and operated by this
state or a political subdivision or agency of this state.
2.A nursing home, rest home, skilled nursing
facility, life care facility or senior residential facility providing on-site
medical and support services if the facility is owned and operated by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of
the United States internal revenue code.
G.Except for a corporation that is exempt under
subsection E of this section, the department with or without a hearing shall
approve or disapprove the project not later than thirty days after receipt of
the request for approval.If the project is approved the corporation
may issue the bonds described in the approval request with the total principal
amount, maximum term and maximum interest rate no greater than as set forth in
the request.The department shall charge each applicant submitting a
project approval request pursuant to this subsection a fee of not to exceed
five thousand dollars together with reimbursement of its actual costs and
expenses incurred in reviewing the project.Beginning on October 1, 2002, The department
shall remit the fees to the state treasurer for deposit in the Arizona
department of housing program fund established by section 413957.
H.For the purposes of this section,
"department" means the Arizona department of housing. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section
35-751, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-751.Earnings of the corporation and exemption from
restrictions
A.The corporation
shall be a nonprofit corporation, and no part of its net earnings remaining
after payment of its expenses shall inure to the benefit of any individual,
firm or corporation.
B.A project shall be exempt from any requirement of
competitive bidding or other restrictions imposed on the procedure for the
financing of public improvements or the award of contracts for the construction
of public improvements and shall also be exempt from any restrictions imposed
on municipalities, counties or political subdivisions relating to the leasing,
sale or other disposition of property or funds.
C.At the
end of each fiscal year, the Arizona industrial development authority shall
transfer all unencumbered monies in excess of the authority's operating costs
to the governor's economic opportunity office operations fund established by
section 415302. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 35-761, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-761.Cooperation with public bodies
For the purposes of carrying out the intent and provisions of
this chapter, the authorizing governing
body of a municipality or county
may enter into cooperative agreements with any other governing bodies of any other municipality or county or with a
state or any department or agency thereof, or with the United States or with
any agency, department, or instrumentality thereof. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 35-762, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-762.Reviewing entities; approval of developments;
coordination; definitions
A.Any reviewing entity exercising its statutory duties
in connection with a project may agree with any other reviewing entity to share
information, coordinate review schedules or jointly conduct reviews.
B.A reviewing entity, in its discretion, may
cooperate in the review of a project financing by adopting in whole or in part
substantially similar review work performed on the project financing by another
reviewing entity that is also charged with review of the project financing if
the review work completed by the other entity meets the standards of the reviewing
entity.
C.A reviewing entity that adopts in whole or in
part review work performed on the project financing by another reviewing entity
is deemed for all purposes to have complied with its review responsibilities as
if the review work had been performed by the reviewing entity itself.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Project" means a nursing home, rest
home, skilled nursing facility, senior residential facility providing on-site
medical and support services or life care facility owned and operated by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of
the United States internal revenue code that is seeking debt financing pursuant
to this chapter, or a permit pursuant to title
20, chapter 8 or bond financing pursuant
to title 36, chapter 4.2.
2."Reviewing entity" means an industrial
development authority formed pursuant to this chapter, a governing body
approving the formation of an industrial development authority, the Arizona health facilities authority or
the department of insurance. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 35-901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Authority" means the Arizona commerce finance authority established by title 41, chapter 53, article 2.
2."Board"
means the board of directors of the authority.
2.3."Bond"
means any obligation that is subject to the provisions of section 146 of the
code, excluding obligations that received a carryforward allocation in a
prior year.
3.4."Business
day" means between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mountain standard
time, any day of the week other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or
a day on which the authority is authorized or obligated by law or executive
order to close.
4.5."Carryforward
project" means any project receiving a carryforward allocation
pursuant to section 35907.
5.6."Certificate
of closing" means the certificate of closing adopted for use by and to be
filed with the authority declaring that bonds were issued or that a qualified
mortgage credit certificate program has been established.
6."Chief
executive officer" means the chief executive officer of the authority.
7."Code" means the United States internal
revenue code of 1986, as amended, and its applicable regulations.
8."Confirmation" means the allocation
confirmation that confirms an allocation to a project in the form adopted for
use by the authority.
9."Director"
means the director of the authority.
9.10."Issued"
means, with respect to a bond or bonds, either of the following:
(a)The bond or bonds have been delivered and paid
for in full.
(b)For bonds issued pursuant to a draw-down loan
for which a bond purchaser has agreed to receive and pay for the bonds of the
issue in increments from time to time, all of the bonds are treated as issued
on the first date on which the aggregate principal amount of such bonds
delivered and paid for exceeds the lesser of fifty thousand dollars or five
percent of the aggregate issue price of the issue.
10.11."Issuer"
means an entity or person issuing bonds.
11.12."Manufacturing
project" means a project as described in section 35701, paragraph
7, subdivision (a), item (vii) or (xiii).
12.13."Mortgage
credit certificate" means a certificate as described in section 25(c)(1)
of the code.
13.14."Nonurban
area" means all areas of this state not within the boundaries of the urban
cities.
14.15."Notice of
intent" means the notice of intent to be filed with the authority in the
form adopted for use by the authority.
15.16."Project"
means a qualified mortgage credit certificate program or any construction,
acquisition, planned expenditure or other activity, including all phases of a
multiphased project that requests allocations in the same year and including
costs of issuance, capitalized interest and discounts, financed with bonds and
located in this state or directly benefiting residents of this
state.All qualified mortgage credit certificate programs and
qualified mortgage revenue bonds, or combinations of such programs and bonds,
of a single issuer or group of issuers acting together, constitute a single
project for the purposes of this paragraph.
16.17."Qualified
mortgage credit certificate program" means a qualified mortgage credit
certificate program as described in section 25(c)(2) of the code.
17.18."Qualified
mortgage revenue bonds" means an issue of bonds as described in section
143(a) of the code.
18.19."Qualified
student loan project" means an issue of bonds as described in section
144(b) of the code.
19.20."Request"
means the request for allocation to be filed with the authority in the form
adopted for use by the authority.
20.21."Security
deposit" means cash, a bank cashier's check, a surety bond, a letter of
credit or any other form of security approved by the chief executive officer director in favor of the authority that is
received by the authority from an issuer or user to secure or extend an
allocation.
21.22."State
ceiling" means the dollar limit of the aggregate amount of private
activity bonds that may be issued in this state pursuant to section 146 of the
code for each calendar year, beginning in 1988.
22.23."Tax reform
act of 1986" means P.L. 99514 enacted by the ninetyninth
Congress, second session in 1986.
23.24."Urban
city" means a city having a population of not less than one hundred
thousand persons according to the most recent United States decennial or
special census.The area of each urban city is the boundary of the
city as of January 1 of the current calendar year.
24.25."Year"
means the calendar year. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 35-902, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-902.Allocation
A.Subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the total amount of the state ceiling
is allocated among projects pursuant to this section.The chief executive officer director shall issue
confirmations on a first come, first
served basis, within any particular category of projects as described in
subsection C, D, E, F or G of this section.
B.Ten per
cent of the state ceiling is allocated to projects that are designated at the
sole discretion of the chief executive officer.
C.Thirtyfive
per cent of the state ceiling is allocated to qualified mortgage revenue bonds
and qualified mortgage credit certificate programs, excluding any such bonds
and certificate programs for home improvement and rehabilitation.
D.Ten per
cent of the state ceiling is allocated to qualified residential rental projects
as described in the United States internal revenue code of 1986, thirty per
cent of which shall be for rural residential rental projects for a period of at
least one hundred eighty days.
E.Twenty per
cent of the state ceiling is allocated to qualified student loan projects.
F.Fifteen per
cent of the state ceiling is allocated to manufacturing projects.
G.Ten per
cent of the state ceiling is allocated to all projects financable through
issuance of bonds that require an allocation of state ceiling and that are not
described and provided for in subsections C, D, E and F of this
section.Such projects include, but are not limited to, qualified
mortgage revenue bonds and qualified mortgage credit certificate programs for
home improvement and rehabilitation. that are in accordance with the allocation policy adopted by
the board.The board shall adopt an allocation policy based on the
economic needs of this state after RECEIVING input from affected industries.
The board may modify the allocation policy pursuant to procedures adopted by
the board. 
H.B.A request shall
not be filed and a confirmation shall not be issued to a project unless the
project is subject to section 146 of the code.No project is deemed
to have been allocated any portion of the state ceiling unless, in connection
with the project, the provisions of
this chapter have has been substantially complied
with.
I.C.Any request on file with the authority for which a
confirmation has not been issued by 5:00 p.m. on June 30, other than a request
for an allocation pursuant to subsection B of this section, is deemed to have
expired at 5:00 p.m. on June 30.All or any part of
any confirmation for which bonds have not been issued or for which a qualified
mortgage credit certificate program has not been established by 5:00 p.m. on June 30 the date established by the board by rule,
evidenced by the filing of a certificate of closing with the authority, or for
which confirmations have not been extended pursuant to section 35910, is
deemed to have expired.
J.D.At any given
time, an issuer, or an issuer together with one or more other issuers, may not
file more than one request for each project.Nothing in This subsection prohibits does not prohibit an issuer from refiling a
request for a given project if a prior request has expired or filing a request
for each separate and distinct project.
K.E.An issuer may not
transfer or assign its rights to an allocation of state ceiling from one
project to another project or from itself to another issuer. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 35-903, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-903.Arizona finance authority designated as state registry;
fee
A.The Arizona commerce finance authority
is designated as the exclusive state registry for:
1.Requests.
2.Recordation of confirmations, whether outstanding
or lapsed.
3.Certificates of closing.
4.Recordation of all requests for carryforward
amounts for specific projects.
5.Other records required for the administration of
this chapter.
B.The authority shall develop and maintain separate
lists for urban cities, nonurban areas, statewide uses and the aggregate for
all categories that summarize all information received pursuant to subsection A of this section.
C.Requests and confirmations adopted or issued
under this chapter shall be dated and numbered by the chief executive officer director in the order received and issued, and
each item shall be independently entered on the proper list. Each list shall
be composed in a manner sufficient to show, at any time:
1.The dollar amount of confirmations outstanding
and not then lapsed.
2.The dollar amount of the remaining allocation
then available.
3.The amount of confirmations actually closed.
D.The authority may assess an application fee for
processing the requests. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 35-904, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-904.Obtaining and issuing confirmations
A.Subject to section 35905, a confirmation
allocating a portion of the state ceiling to a project must be obtained before
the sale or issuance of bonds or mortgage credit certificates by the
issuer.A confirmation may be obtained by filing with the authority
a request and evidence of an inducement resolution or other official action
taken by the issuer in connection with the project. Requests filed by mail are
deemed to be filed with the authority at 5:00 p.m. on the day the request is
actually received at the authority. All requests received on the same date and
at the same time shall be dated and numbered by lot and confirmations to those
requests shall be issued in the order determined by lot.
B.On and after the first business day of each year,
a request may be prepared and filed by the issuer or on behalf of the issuer by
bond counsel or any other interested person.
C.Except as provided in section 35902,
subsection I C, section 35909 and
subsection D of this section, a confirmation issued before 5:00 p.m. on June 30 expires and
no allocation is deemed to be made unless the applicable bonds have been issued
or a qualified mortgage credit certificate program has been established and a certificate of closing has been actually
filed, not merely postmarked, with the authority no later than
ninety days after the date of the confirmation or the first business day after
the ninetieth day if the ninetieth day is not a business day.The
confirmation may be extended as provided in section 35910 beyond such ninety day period or 5:00 p.m. on June30.
D.Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, a
confirmation issued for a project to be funded in part with an urban
development action grant to be made under section 119 of the housing and
community development act of 1974 (P.L. 93383; 88 Stat. 633) or a
housing development grant to be made under section 301 of the housing and urbanrenewal
recovery act of 1983 (P.L. 98181, title III, section 301, 97 Stat. 1196
and amended October 17, 1984, P.L. 98479, title III, section 103, 98
Stat. 2223) expires and no allocation is deemed to be made unless the
applicable bonds have been issued and a certificate of closing and evidence
satisfactory to the chief executive
officer director of
the commitment to make an urban development action grant or a housing
development grant with respect to such project have been actually filed, not
merely postmarked, with the authority no
later than 5:00 p.m. on December 26 by the date established by the board by rule.
E.Subject to this section and section 35909,
the confirmation shall assure
ensure allocation in the
manner prescribed by the code for a dollar amount of bonds or a qualified
mortgage credit certificate program not in excess of the amount set forth in
the confirmation.
F.The chief
executive officer director
shall decline to issue confirmations at such time as the
aggregate amount of bonds or mortgage credit certificates allocated under all
confirmations previously issued and not expired, together with the proposed
issue of bonds or mortgage credit certificates as to which a request has been
received, would, through 5:00 p.m. on
June 30, exceed the respective aggregate amount allocated under
section 35902, subsection C, D, E,
F or G for such purpose,
and from July 1, exceed the aggregate amount of the state ceiling that is not
allocated under an unexpired confirmation nor within the discretion of the
chief executive officer pursuant to section 35902, subsection B.On
expiration of a confirmation or release of an allocation, the chief executive officer director shall issue a confirmation to the
next numbered request which
that is equal to or less
than the then available portion of the state ceiling or to the next numbered
request if the principal amount of such request is reduced to an amount equal
to or less than the then available portion of the state ceiling available for
such purpose.The chief
executive officer director
may only issue a single confirmation for each request.
G.A confirmation made pursuant to the chief executive officer's director's discretion may be
accompanied by a certificate executed by the chief executive officer director.On request, the chief executive officer director shall execute a
certificate stating that the confirmation was not made in consideration of any
bribe, gift, gratuity or direct or indirect contribution to any political
campaign.The chief executive
officer director may
require such oaths or affirmations as the chief executive officer director considers to be necessary to verify
the accuracy of the certificate.
H.The chief
executive officer director
shall attempt to issue confirmations within three business days of after receipt and shall issue confirmations in
the order of receipt of fully and properly completed requests within the
limitations of subsection F of this section.The authority shall
notify the issuer or other contact person listed in the request in writing, by telefacsimile e-mail or by telephone of the issuance of a
confirmation.The authority is not responsible for returning
confirmations to the filing party.A confirmation shall be available
for pickup at the authority after issuance of the confirmation. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 35-905, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-905.Restrictions on confirmations; definition
A.Before
April 1 of each year, seventy per cent of the allocation to manufacturing
projects described in section 35902, subsection F is reserved for
manufacturing projects located in nonurban areas, and the remaining thirty per
cent of the allocation to manufacturing projects described in section 35902,
subsection F shall be reserved for urban areas.Before July1
of each year, seventy per cent of the allocation available for confirmation
pursuant to the chief executive officer's discretion as described in section 35902,
subsection B is reserved for projects located in nonurban areas, and the
remaining thirty per cent of the allocation to the chief executive officer's
discretion as described in section 35902, subsection B, shall be
reserved for urban areas.
B.A.Before December 17, A confirmation shall not be
allocated to a project in an amount greater than thirty-five million dollars, except that this subsection does not apply to
any project that is eligible to receive an allocation pursuant to section 35902,
subsection B, C or E unless
approved in the sole discretion of the director.For
the purposes of this subsection, the amount of allocation to a project shall
also include any other state ceiling allocation received by any related person
to the project.
B.For
the purposes of this subsection
section, "related
person" has the same meaning as provided in section 147(a)(2) of the code,
except that all references to fifty per
cent percent shall
be changed to twentyfive per cent
percent. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Delayed repeal
Section 35-906,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after December 31, 2016.
Sec.25.Section 35-907, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-907.Carryforward allocations 
A.Any portions of the state ceiling for which bonds
have not been issued by 5:00 p.m.
December 16 the date
established by the board by rule, other than confirmations
extended pursuant to section 35910, shall be pooled and are subject to allocation
by the chief executive officer
director to projects
eligible for a carryforward allocation under the code.
B.Obtaining
and issuing A confirmation shall be obtained and issued after 5:00 p.m. December 16 shall occur as provided in section 35904,
subject to the following restrictions and changes:
1.A notice of
intent shall be filed on or before December 15 with the authority by any
issuer, bond counsel or other interested person, with respect to projects for
which allocations may be carried forward pursuant to section 146 of the
code.Such notice of intent shall be considered and confirmations
shall be issued by the chief executive officer to the issuers on December
17.Any portions of the state ceiling for which bonds have not been
issued or for which a qualified mortgage credit certificate program has not
been established by 5:00 p.m. December 26 shall be allocated by the chief
executive officer and confirmations shall be issued to such issuers before
January 1.Issuers shall not file elections with the federal
government under section 146 of the code until an allocation has been issued by
the authority under this section for the bonds pertaining to a
project.The failure to file a notice of intent results in the
exclusion of the project from allocations to issuers of any portion of the
current calendar year state ceiling.
2.A security
deposit equal to one per cent of the principal amount stated in the notice of
intent shall be received by the authority within five days after notification
by the chief executive officer that the project is eligible for a carryforward
allocation.No security deposit is required if the direct
beneficiary of the bonds proceeds is this state or a county, city, town or
nonprofit entity, the issuer is a student loan corporation, the project
includes urban development action grant or housing development grant financing,
is a project described in section 1317(3)(N) of the tax reform act of 1986 or
is a qualified mortgage revenue bond project or is a qualified mortgage credit
certificate program or the confirmation is issued by the chief executive
officer on or after December 26.The security deposit is forfeited
to the authority if bonds are not issued within three years of the receipt of
the deposit. the date
established by the board by rule. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 35-908, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-908.Principal amount of bonds issued less than confirmation
A confirmation is effective as to bonds or mortgage credit
certificates issued in lesser amounts than the principal amount set forth in
the confirmation. , but for bonds issued after 5:00 p.m. August
1, if the principal amount of bonds issued is less than the principal amount
set forth in the confirmation, a fee of one per cent of the difference between
the confirmation and the principal amount of the bonds shall be paid to the
authority on filing the certificate of closing unless the direct beneficiary of
the bond proceeds is this state or a county, city, town or nonprofit entity,
the issuer is a student loan corporation or the project includes urban
development action grant or housing development grant financing, is a project
described in section 1317(3)(N) of the tax reform act of 1986, is a qualified
mortgage revenue bond or is a qualified mortgage credit certificate
program.The failure to make such payment within ten days of the
filing shall result in a retroactive cancellation of the allocation and the
barring of the direct private obligor from any future allocations.
END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 35-909, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-909.Confirmation fees
On the earlier of three business days after notice of issuance
of the confirmation pursuant to section 35904, subsection H or the
filing of a certificate of closing, the authority shall be paid a nonrefundable
confirmation fee of three hundred twenty
dollars per million dollars in an amount to be determined by the board by rule for
which a confirmation is issued.The failure to make timely payments
of the confirmation fee shall result in the retroactive cancellation of the
confirmation. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 35-910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-910.Extension of confirmations
A.A confirmation may be extended one time for up to
ninety days but not later than December
16 the date established
by the board by rule on providing the authority with a security
deposit equal to one per cent
percent of the principal
amount set forth in the confirmation. The security deposit and request for
extension shall be submitted to the authority before the expiration of the
confirmation.Except as provided in subsection B of this section, all extensions granted
pursuant to this section expire on the earlier of ninety days from after
the date of the extension or at 5:00 p.m. December 16 on the date established by the BOARD by rule.
No security deposit is required pursuant to this section if the project is a
qualified student loan project, is a qualified mortgage revenue bond, is a
qualified mortgage credit certificate program or is for home improvement and
rehabilitation. Requests shall not be
extended.
B.A confirmation or extension of confirmation which that expires at 5:00p.m. December 16 on the date established by the board by rule may
be extended to 5:00 p.m. December 26
pursuant to rule by
filing with the authority on or before
5:00 p.m. on December 16 a certificate certifying that the bonds
will be issued before 5:00 p.m. December
26 the date established
by the board by rule, and providing the authority with an
additional security deposit equal to one per
cent percent of
the principal amount stated in the confirmation.All extensions
granted pursuant to this subsection expire at 5:00 p.m. December26 pursuant to rule.
C.All security deposits received by the authority
pursuant to this section are forfeited in favor of the authority if bonds are
not issued before the expiration of the extension. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Delayed repeal
Section 35-913,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after December 31, 2016.
Sec.30.Delayed repeal
Title 36, chapter
4.2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after
December 31, 2016.
Sec.31.Section 37-1015, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-1015.Environmental special plate fund; distribution
A.An environmental special plate fund is
established and is administered by the commissioner consisting of monies
received pursuant to section 282413.
B.Subject to legislative appropriation, the
department shall distribute five thousand dollars annually to each natural
resource conservation district with an established education center for the
purpose of developing and implementing an environmental education program that
is conducted in a balanced manner, that is based on current scientific
information and that includes a discussion of economic and social implications.
C.Subject to
legislative appropriation, the department shall distribute grants as directed
pursuant to section 412252.
D.C.The fund
established in this section is exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing of appropriations. On notice from the commissioner, the
state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by
section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to
the fund.
E.D.The
appropriated monies shall only be used for the designated purposes specified in
statute. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 41-1052, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1052.Council review and approval
A.Before filing a final rule subject to this
section with the secretary of state, an agency shall prepare, transmit to the
council and the committee and obtain the council's approval of the rule and its
preamble and economic, small business and consumer impact statement that meets
the requirements of section 411055.The governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting
economic opportunity office shall
prepare the economic, small business and consumer impact statement if the legislature appropriates monies for this
purpose.
B.The council shall accept an early review petition
of a proposed rule, in whole or in part, if the proposed rule is alleged to
violate any of the criteria prescribed in subsection D of this section and if
the early petition is filed by a person who would be adversely impacted by the
proposed rule.The council may determine whether the proposed rule,
in whole or in part, violates any of the criteria prescribed in subsection D of
this section.
C.Within one hundred twenty days of after
receipt of the rule, preamble and economic, small business and
consumer impact statement, the council shall review and approve or return, in
whole or in part, the rule, preamble or economic, small business and consumer
impact statement.An agency may resubmit a rule, preamble or
economic, small business and consumer impact statement if the council returns
the rule, economic, small business and consumer impact statement or preamble,
in whole or in part, to the agency.
D.The council shall not approve the rule unless:
1.The economic, small business and consumer impact
statement contains information from the state, data and analysis prescribed by
this article.
2.The economic, small business and consumer impact
statement is generally accurate.
3.The probable benefits of the rule outweigh within
this state the probable costs of the rule and the agency has demonstrated that
it has selected the alternative that imposes the least burden and costs to
persons regulated by the rule, including paperwork and other compliance costs,
necessary to achieve the underlying regulatory objective.
4.The rule is written in a manner that is clear,
concise and understandable to the general public.
5.The rule is not illegal, inconsistent with
legislative intent or beyond the agency's statutory authority.
6.The agency adequately addressed, in writing, the
comments on the proposed rule and any supplemental proposals.
7.The rule is not a substantial change, considered
as a whole, from the proposed rule and any supplemental notices.
8.The preamble discloses a reference to any study
relevant to the rule that the agency reviewed and either did or did not rely on
in the agency's evaluation of or justification for the rule.
9.The rule is not more stringent than a
corresponding federal law unless there is statutory authority to exceed the
requirements of that federal law.
10.If a rule requires a permit, the permitting
requirement complies with section 411037.
E.The council shall verify that a rule with new
fees does not violate section 411008. The council shall not approve a
rule that contains a fee increase unless twothirds of the voting quorum
present vote to approve the rule.
F.The council shall verify that a rule with an
immediate effective date complies with section 411032. The council
shall not approve a rule with an immediate effective date unless twothirds
of the voting quorum present vote to approve the rule.
G.If the rule relies on scientific principles or methods,
including a study disclosed pursuant to subsection D, paragraph 8 of this
section, and a person submits an analysis to the council questioning whether
the rule is based on valid scientific or reliable principles or methods, the
council shall not approve the rule unless the council determines that the rule
is based on valid scientific or reliable principles or methods that are
specific and not of a general nature.In making a determination of
reliability or validity, the council shall consider the following factors as
applicable to the rule:
(a)1.The authors of
the study, principle or method have subject matter knowledge, skill,
experience, training and expertise.
(b)2.The study,
principle or method is based on sufficient facts or data.
(c)3.The study is the
product of reliable principles and methods.
(d)4.The study and its
conclusions, principles or methods have been tested or subjected to peer
reviewed publications.
(e)5.The known or
potential error rate of the study, principle or method has been identified
along with its basis. 
(f)6.The methodology
and approach of the study, principle or method are generally accepted in the
scientific community.
H.The council may require a representative of an
agency whose rule is under examination to attend a council meeting and answer
questions.The council may also communicate to the agency its
comments on any rule, preamble or economic, small business and consumer impact
statement and require the agency to respond to its comments in writing.
I.At any time during the thirty days immediately
following receipt of the rule, a person may submit written comments to the
council that are within the scope of subsection D, E, F or G of this
section.The council may permit testimony at a council meeting
within the scope of subsection D, E, F or G of this section.
J.If the agency makes a good faith effort to comply
with the requirements prescribed in this article and has explained in writing
the methodology used to produce the economic, small business and consumer
impact statement, the rule may not be invalidated after it is finalized on the
ground that the contents of the economic, small business and consumer impact
statement are insufficient or inaccurate or on the ground that the council erroneously
approved the rule, except as provided by section 411056.01.
K.The absence of comments pursuant to subsection D,
E, F or G of this section or article 4.1 of this chapter does not prevent the
council from acting pursuant to this section.
L.The council shall review and approve or reject a
notice of proposed expedited rule making pursuant to section 411027. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 41-1502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1502.Arizona commerce authority; board of directors; conduct of
office; audit
A.The Arizona commerce authority is established.
The mission of the authority is to provide private sector leadership in growing
and diversifying the economy of this state, creating high quality employment in
this state through expansion, attraction and retention of businesses and
marketing this state for the purpose of expansion, attraction and retention of
businesses.
B.The authority shall be governed by a board of
directors consisting of:
1.The governor, who serves as chairperson.
2.The chief executive officer.
3.Seventeen private sector business leaders who are
chief executive officers of private, for-profit enterprises. None of these
members may be an elected official of any government entity. These members
must be appointed from geographically diverse areas of this state and not all
from the same county.These members shall serve staggered three-year
terms of office beginning and ending on the third Monday in January. These
members shall be appointed as follows:
(a)Nine members who are appointed by the governor.
(b)Four members who are appointed by the president
of the senate.
(c)Four members who are appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives.
4.The following as ex officio members without the
power to vote:
(a)The president of the senate.
(b)The speaker of the house of representatives.
(c)The president of the Arizona board of regents.
(d)The president of each state university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
(e)One president of a community college who is
appointed by a statewide organization of community college presidents.
(f)The chairperson of the governor's council on
small business, or its successor.
(g)The chairperson of the governor's council on workforce policy workforce Arizona council, if
established by executive order pursuant to section 411542 415401.
(h)One member of the rural business development
advisory council established by section 411505 who is appointed by the
governor.
(i)The president of a statewide organization of
incorporated cities and towns who is appointed by the governor.
(j)The president of a statewide organization of county
boards of supervisors who is appointed by the governor.
C.The following shall serve as technical advisors
to the board to enhance collaboration among state agencies to meet
infrastructure needs and facilitate growth opportunities throughout this state:
1.The director of environmental quality.
2.The state land commissioner.
3.The director of the department of revenue.
4.The director of the office of tourism.
5.The director of the department of transportation.
6.The director of water resources.
7.The director of the department of financial
institutions.
8.The director of the Arizona-Mexico commission in
the governor's office.
9.The
director of the governor's economic opportunity office.
D.The governor shall appoint a cochairperson of the
board of directors from among the voting members.The board may
establish an executive committee consisting of the chairperson, the
cochairperson, the chief executive officer, and additional voting members of
the board elected by the board. The chairperson may appoint subcommittees as
necessary.
E.The board may request assistance from
representatives of other state agencies to maximize economic development
opportunities by leveraging their access to strategic assets and planning
processes.
F.Board members serve without compensation but are
eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to section 411504,
subsection E, paragraph 1.
G.A majority of the voting members, which must
include the chairperson and the chief executive officer, constitute a quorum
for the purpose of an official meeting for conducting business. An affirmative
vote of a majority of the members present at an official meeting is sufficient
for any action to be taken.
H.The board of directors shall keep and maintain a
complete and accurate record of all of its proceedings. Public access to the
board's records is subject to section 411504, subsection L.
I.The board of directors, executive committee,
subcommittees and advisory councils are subject to title 38, chapter 3, article
3.1, relating to public meetings, except as follows:
1.In addition to section 38431.03, the board
of directors, executive committee and subcommittees may meet in executive
session for discussion about potential business development opportunities and
strategies, which, if made public, could potentially harm the applicant's, the
potential applicant's or this state's competitive position.
2.Social and travel events related to the
expansion, attraction and retention of businesses are not public meetings if no
legal action involving a final vote or decision is taken.
3.Activities and events held in public for the
purpose of announcing the expansion, attraction and retention of projects are
not public meetings.
J.The board of directors and the officers and
employees of the authority are subject to title 38, chapter 3, article 8,
relating to conflicts of interest.
K.The board of directors shall adopt written
policies, procedures and guidelines for standards of conduct, including a gift
policy, for members of the board and for officers and employees of the
authority.
L.The authority shall operate on the state fiscal
year. The board of directors shall cause an annual audit to be conducted on or
before October 31 of each of the authority's public funds established by this
chapter by an independent certified public accountant. The board shall
immediately file a certified copy of the audit with the auditor general. The
auditor general may make such further audits and examinations as necessary and
may take appropriate action relating to the audit or examination pursuant to
chapter 7, article 10.1 of this title. If the auditor general takes no further
action within thirty days after the audit is filed, the audit is considered to
be sufficient.
M.All state agencies shall cooperate with the
authority and make available data pertaining to the functions of the authority
as requested by the authority. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section
41-1543, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1543.Application criteria
The chief executive officer pursuant to the guidelines
established by the governor's council on
workforce policy workforce
Arizona council shall consider the following before any award of
monies pursuant to this article:
1.The training cost per employee.
2.The ability to leverage other job training
resources.
3.The quality of jobs resulting from the training
proposal, including a requirement that a business receiving monies pursuant to
this article pay compensation at least equal to the qualifying wage rate per
county that is prescribed for the year in which the award is considered.
4.The use of the local labor force, dislocated
workers, the chronically unemployed and other special populations, including
persons with disabilities and veterans.
5.The location or expansion of the business in
rural or economically depressed areas.
6.The diversity provided to the economy and the
promotion of existing and expanding businesses and businesses undergoing
economic conversion.
7.The number of jobs resulting from the training
proposal.
8.The ability to expand cluster industries. For
purposes of this paragraph, "cluster industries" means concentrations
of firms across several industries that share common economic foundation needs.
9.The extent to which the benefit package including
health insurance reflects the needs of the employees. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 41-1544, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1544.Arizona job training fund; definitions
A.The Arizona job training fund is established
consisting of legislative appropriations, gifts, grants and other monies. The
authority shall administer the fund.On notice from the chief
executive officer, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the
fund as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment
shall be credited to the fund.
B.The chief executive officer may accept and expend
federal monies and private grants, gifts and contributions to assist in
carrying out the purposes of this article.All monies for the
program shall be expended only for the costs related to
training.Monies in the Arizona job training fund are exempt from
the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
C.The Arizona job training fund monies shall be
spent on approval of the authority at the direction of the chief executive
officer in accordance with the guidelines and procedures adopted by the governor's council on workforce policy
workforce ARizona council.
D.A minimum of twentyfive percent of the
monies appropriated to the Arizona job training fund shall be used to provide
training to small businesses employing fewer than one hundred employees.
E.A minimum of twentyfive percent of the
monies appropriated to the Arizona job training fund shall be used to provide
training to businesses located in rural areas of the state.
F.If a business receives monies for training from
the Arizona job training fund and the business employs fewer than one hundred
employees and is located in a rural area of this state, the business shall be
included in the minimum percentages prescribed in subsections D and E of this
section.
G.No more than fifty percent of the monies in the
Arizona job training fund shall be used to provide incumbent worker training.
H.A single grant awarded pursuant to this article
shall not be more than ten percent of the estimated annual total of monies
deposited in the Arizona job training fund.
I.The authority
shall not approve grant monies for reimbursement of the following employer
costs:
1.Fringe benefits,
food and beverages, recruitment and signing bonuses for trainees and trainers.
2.Employer costs to complete a program application.
3.Except for small businesses, training expenses
for partners or corporate officers.
4.Employee relocation expenses.
5.Training or course development costs that are not
part of the employer's approved training plan.
6.Costs for assessing the training needs of
employees.
7.Drug or other testing costs for employee
screening or prescreening purposes.
8.Costs for trade shows and conferences or seminars
that do not result in a skill certificate that is earned by an employee.
9.Other costs prohibited by rule.
J.For the purposes of this section:
1."Rural area" means either:
(a)A county with a population of less than seven hundred
fifty thousand persons according to the
most recent United States decennial census.
(b)A census county division with less than fifty
thousand persons in a county with a population of seven hundred fifty thousand
or more persons according to the most
recent United States decennial census.
2."Small business" means a concern,
including its affiliates, that employs fewer than one hundred employees. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 41-1545.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1545.02.Grants from the Arizona competes fund
A.The chief executive officer may negotiate the
award of monies from the Arizona competes fund. The monies shall be paid, by
grant, for the purposes of:
1.Attracting, expanding or retaining Arizona basic
enterprises that meet the requirements prescribed by subsection B of this section, that
achieve the performance and qualification targets developed under subsection C of this section and that
enter into an agreement with the chief executive officer as provided by
subsection C of this section.
In awarding monies pursuant to this paragraph, the chief executive officer
shall give preference to job training and infrastructure activities that create
private sector jobs.
2.Supporting and advancing programs and projects
for rural businesses, small businesses and business development that enhance
economic development.
B.To be eligible to receive a deal closing grant
under subsection A, paragraph 1
of this section, an applicant must:
1.Be in good standing under the laws of the state
in which the applicant was formed or organized, as evidenced by a certificate
issued by the secretary of state or other state official having custody of the
records pertaining to entities or other organizations formed under the laws of
that state.
2.Owe no delinquent taxes to a taxing jurisdiction
in this state.
3.Qualify as an Arizona basic industry.
4.Pay compensation that exceeds, on average, one
hundred per cent percent of the median wage by county as
determined annually by the authority.
5.Include health insurance for employees for which
the applicant pays at least sixtyfive per
cent percent of
the premium or membership cost.
6.Demonstrate by analysis by an independent third
party that estimated income, property and transaction privilege tax and
government fee revenues in this state will exceed state incentives.
C.Before awarding a grant from the fund under this
section, the chief executive officer must enter into a written agreement with
the applicant specifying that:
1.A reasonable percentage of the total amount of
the grant may be withheld until the recipient meets specified performance
targets.
2.If the chief executive officer finds that the
grant recipient has not met each of the performance targets specified in the
agreement as of a date stated in the agreement:
(a)The recipient must repay the grant and any
related interest to this state at an agreed rate and on agreed terms. The
repayment may be prorated to reflect partial attainment of performance targets.
(b)The chief executive officer shall not disburse
any remaining grant money to the recipient under the agreement.
(c)The chief executive officer may assess specified
penalties against the recipient for noncompliance.
3.If any part of the grant is used to build a
capital improvement, this state may:
(a)Retain a lien or other security interest in the
improvement in proportion to the percentage of the grant amount used to pay for
the improvement.
(b)Require the recipient, if the improvement is
sold, to:
(i)Repay to this state the grant monies used to pay
for the improvement, with interest at a rate and according to terms stated in
the agreement.
(ii)Share with this state a proportionate amount of
any profit realized from the sale.
D.The chief executive officer must determine:
1.The performance targets and dates required to be
included in each grant agreement.
2.If the grant agreement includes withholding a
percentage of the grant until the recipient meets the performance targets, the
percentage of the grant money to be withheld.
E.Before awarding a grant from the fund under this
section, the authority must prepare a written statement, signed by the chief
executive officer, that, specifically and in detail, assesses the direct
economic impact of the grant. The statement must:
1.Include a finding that the enterprise is clearly
in the best interests of this state.
2.Set forth the evidence and reasons supporting
this finding, including:
(a)The estimated annual tax revenue accruing to
this state and its political subdivisions as a direct or indirect result of the
enterprise.
(b)The public benefit of the enterprise from the
employment base, including the estimated number and the median wage of jobs to
be created in this state by the potential recipient each year.
(c)The extent to which the economic development
from the enterprise will raise the standard of living of affected persons,
increases free enterprise growth and increases the quality of life in this
state.
(d)The ratio of economic benefit from wages paid
and capital investment made by the enterprise to the amount of the grant.
(e)The contribution from the enterprise to the
growth of existing businesses and creation of new businesses and business
clusters.
(f)Whether the enterprise will provide its
employees with benefits such as retirement, child care, educational
reimbursements and training.
(g)The percentage of the products or services the
enterprise will export outside of this state over the first five years of
operation.
(h)Any other information the chief executive
officer considers to be necessary for inclusion in the statement.
F.Beginning
from and after June 30, 2017, at least thirty percent of the unencumbered
monies in the fund at the end of each fiscal year are reserved for grants for
the purposes prescribed in subsection A, Paragraph 2 of this section,If
the amount reserved under this subsection when combined with grants awarded in
the next fiscal year for the purposes prescribed in subsection A, Paragraph 2
of this section does not exceed thirty percent of the monies appropriated to
the fund in that fiscal year.This subsection applies only to monies
appropriated to the fund in the current fiscal year. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 41-1545.05, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1545.05.Program termination
The program established by this article ends on July 1, 2016 2018.END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section
41-1959, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1959.Confidential information; permissible disclosure; rules;
violation; classification
A.Unless otherwise
provided by law, all personally identifiable information concerning any
applicant, claimant, recipient, employer or client or concerning any person
involved in an adult protective services action, other than a perpetrator
against whom an allegation of abuse, neglect or exploitation has been
substantiated pursuant to section 46458, is confidential and shall not
be released unless ordered by a superior court judge or provided for by rule of
court except as provided in subsections B, C and D of this section. Department
records and files that contain information related to investigations conducted
by child protective services or the department of child safety are
confidential. The department shall release this information only as prescribed
by section 8807.
B.Employees of the department of economic security,
the department of law and the court may obtain the information described in
subsection A of this section in the performance of their duties as authorized
by rules adopted by the director.
C.Employees of the department of economic security,
the department of law and the court may release any information that is
otherwise held confidential under this section under any of the following
circumstances:
1.To the applicant, claimant, recipient, employer
or client if a request is made in writing by any of such persons specifically
requesting information that directly relates to the person requesting such
information.
2.To the extent necessary to make claims on behalf
of a client for public or private assistance, insurance or health or medical
assistance pursuant to title 11, chapter 2, article 7 or title 36, chapter 29
to which the client may be entitled.
3.In oral and written communications involving the
provision of services or the referral to services between employees of, persons
under contract with, or persons holding a general employment relationship with
the department of economic security, the department of law or the juvenile
court.
4.If the disclosure of otherwise confidential
information is necessary to protect against a clear and substantial risk of
imminent serious injury to a client.
5.To agencies of the federal government, this state
or any political subdivision of this state for official
purposes.All information received by a governmental agency pursuant
to this paragraph shall be maintained as confidential, except where pertinent
to a criminal prosecution.
6.To foster parents and persons certified to adopt
if necessary to assist in the placement with or care of a child by such
persons.
7.In any judicial or administrative proceeding
involving an adult protective services client if the director of the department
considers the information pertinent to the proceeding.
8.To the
entities as specified in section 23-722.04, subsections A and E for the
development of a state workforce evaluation data system and program performance
purposes and other program and research purposes as defined in a data sharing
agreement.
D.Notwithstanding section 46135, a standing
committee of the legislature or a committee appointed by the president of the
senate or the speaker of the house of representatives may obtain the
information described in subsection A of this section on written notification
to the director. Information obtained pursuant to this subsection may be used
only for purposes of conducting investigations related to legislative oversight
of the department. Information that is personally identifiable shall not be
further disclosed.
E.Any violation of this section is a class 2
misdemeanor.
F.The department shall establish safeguards against
the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information in title IVD
cases. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Section 41-2251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2251.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Authority" means the greater Arizona
development authority.
2."Board" means the board of directors of
the authority as established by section
412252 Arizona
finance authority established by chapter 53, article 2 of this title.
3."Financial assistance" means assistance
provided by the authority to eligible political subdivisions, special districts
and Indian tribes pursuant to section 412257.
4."Fund" means the greater Arizona
development authority revolving fund established by section 412254.
5."Indian tribe" means any Indian tribe,
band, group or community that is recognized by the United States secretary of
the interior and that exercises governmental authority within the limits of any
Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government,
notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rightsofway
running through the reservation.
6."Infrastructure" means any land,
building or other improvement and equipment or other personal property that
will make up part of a facility that is located in this state for public use
and that is owned by a political subdivision, special district or Indian tribe
that retains ultimate responsibility for its operation and maintenance.
7."Loan" means bonds, leases, loans or
other evidences of indebtedness.
8."Loan repayment agreement" means an
agreement to repay a loan entered into by a political subdivision, special
district or Indian tribe.
9."Pledged revenues" means any monies to
be received by a political subdivision, special district or Indian tribe,
including property taxes, other local taxes, fees, assessments or charges
pledged by a political subdivision, special district or Indian tribe as a
source for repayment of a loan repayment agreement.
10."Political subdivision" means a
county, city or town.
11."Shortterm assistance" means
assistance provided by the authority to political subdivisions, special
districts and Indian tribes in connection with the financing of infrastructure.
12."Special district" means any of the
following entities established pursuant to title 48:
(a)Municipal improvement district.
(b)Fire district.
(c)County improvement district.
(d)Special road district.
(e)Sanitary district.
(f)Drainage or flood protection district.
(g)County flood control district.
(h)County jail district.
(i)Regional public transportation authority.
(j)Regional transportation authority.
13."Technical assistance" means
assistance provided pursuant to section 412256.
14."Technical assistance repayment
agreement" means an agreement to repay assistance provided pursuant to
section 412256.
15."Tribal subdivision" means any
chapter, district or village that is recognized by an Indian tribe by
resolution or through tribal constitution and that receives technical
assistance. END_STATUTE
Sec.40.Section
41-2252, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2252.Greater Arizona development authority
A.The greater Arizona
development authority is established in
the Arizona finance authority.The authority shall be
governed by the board of directors of
the Arizona finance authority. a board of directors consisting of the following members:
1.The chief executive officer of the Arizona
commerce authority or the director's designee who shall serve as the
chairperson.
2.The director of the department of environmental
quality or the director's designee.
3.The director of the department of
transportation or the director's designee.
4.The state treasurer or the state treasurer's
designee.
5.Five members, one of whom is a representative
of a tribal nation of Arizona, appointed by the governor pursuant to section 38211.All
appointed members shall reside in different counties, and no more than three
members may be members of the same political party.
B.Members appointed by the governor serve
staggered five year terms.
C.Members of the board are not eligible to
receive compensation for their services under this chapter but are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2 for their
services under this chapter.
D.Members of the board serving under this chapter
are public officers for purposes of title 38, chapter 3, article 8 and the
authority is a public body for purposes of title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1.
E.No appointed member may serve more than two
consecutive terms, except that service for a partial term of less than three
years shall not be counted toward the two term limitation.
F.The water infrastructure finance authority of
Arizona shall provide general administrative support, equipment and office and
meeting space to the greater Arizona development authority.
G.The water infrastructure finance authority of
Arizona may hire staff to provide administrative and technical assistance on
behalf of the authority.Earnings on the monies in the greater
Arizona development authority revolving fund may be used to pay for staff services.

H.Members of the board shall not participate in
any direct discussions or actions related to any project financed under this
article in which the member has any direct or indirect personal financial
interest.For purposes of this subsection, a member of the board who
is an employee or official of a participant in or applicant for a loan shall
not be considered to have a direct or indirect personal financial interest in a
project by virtue of the member's services alone.A violation of
this subsection is a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Section 41-2254, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2254.Greater Arizona development authority revolving fund
A.The greater Arizona
development authority revolving fund is established consisting of:
1.Monies appropriated
by the legislature.
2.Monies received from
the United States government to carry out this article.
3.Monies received from political
subdivisions, Indian tribes, tribal subdivisions and special districts as loan
repayments, technical assistance repayments, interest, administrative fees and
penalties.
4.Interest and other
income received from investing monies in the fund.
5.Gifts, grants and
donations received from any public or private source to carry out this article.
6.Any other monies
received by the authority.
B.The board shall
administer the fund in compliance with the requirements of this
article.The board shall separately account for monies received from
each source listed in subsection A of this section. Monies received pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section shall not be used for any purpose
except securing bonds issued by the authority and providing assistance under
technical assistance repayment agreements if the amount used for providing this
assistance is not more than eight hundred thousand dollars. This subsection
does not limit the power of the authority to pledge other monies in the fund to
secure bonds issued by the authority or to provide assistance under technical
assistance repayment agreements.
C.The board may
establish accounts and subaccounts as necessary to properly account for and use
monies received by the authority.
D.Monies in the fund
may be used for securing bonds of the authority.
E.Monies in the fund
received pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this section
may be used for:
1.Providing technical
assistance to political subdivisions, special districts, Indian tribes and
tribal subdivisions.
2.Providing financial
assistance to political subdivisions, special districts and Indian tribes.
3.Paying the compensation and employment related employmentrelated expenses associated with the employees hired pursuant to
section 412252, subsection E.
4.Paying the costs to
operate the authority, to administer the fund and to carry out the requirements
of this article.
5.Paying the costs of
professional assistance hired by the authority pursuant to section 412253,
subsection B, paragraph 6.
F.On notice from the
board, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
G.If the monies pledged
to secure the bonds become insufficient to pay the principal and interest on
the bonds, the board may direct the state treasurer to divest monies in the
fund as may be necessary and may apply those proceeds to make current all
payments then due on the bonds. The state treasurer shall immediately notify
the attorney general and auditor general of the insufficiency. The auditor
general shall audit the circumstances surrounding the depletion of the fund and
shall report these findings to the attorney general.The attorney
general shall conduct an investigation and report these findings to the
governor and the legislature. END_STATUTE
Sec.42.Repeal
Sections 41-3016.16,
413019.03 and 413022.19, Arizona Revised Statutes,
are repealed.
Sec.43.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-3026.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3026.01.Governor's economic opportunity office; termination July
1, 2026
A.The
governor's economic opportunity office terminates on July 1, 2026.
B.Title 41,
chapters 18 and 53 and title 49, chapter 8 are repealed on January 1, 2027, if
the office:
1.Has no
outstanding contractual obligations with the United States or any United States
agency.
2.Has no
debts, obligations or guarantees that were issued.
3.Has
otherwise provided for paying or retiring such debts or obligations.
C.If any
debt or obligation listed in subsection B of this section exists and no
satisfactory provision has been made to pay or retire the debt or obligation,
the office and statutes continue in existence until the debt or obligation is
fully satisfied. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Delayed repeal
Title 41, chapter 37, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
repealed from and after December 31, 2016.
Sec.45.Section 41-3953, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3953.Department powers and duties
A.The department is responsible for establishing
policies, procedures and programs that the department is authorized to conduct
to address the affordable housing issues confronting this state, including housing
issues of low income families, moderate income families, housing affordability,
special needs populations and decaying housing stock.Among other
things, the department shall provide to qualified housing participants and
political subdivisions of this state financial, advisory, consultative,
planning, training and educational assistance for the development of safe,
decent and affordable housing, including housing for low and moderate income
households.
B.Under the direction of the director, the department
shall:
1.Establish guidelines applicable to the programs
and activities of the department for the construction and financing of
affordable housing and housing for low and moderate income households in this
state.These guidelines shall meet or exceed all applicable state or
local building and health and safety code requirements and, if applicable, the
national manufactured home construction and safety standards act of 1974 and
title VI of the housing and community development act of 1974 (P.L. 93383,
as amended by P.L. 95128, 96153 and 96339). Guidelines
established pursuant to this paragraph do not apply to the department's
activities prescribed in section 35726, subsection E.
2.Accept and allocate any monies as from time to
time may be appropriated by the legislature for the purposes set forth in this
article.
3.Perform other duties necessary to administer this
chapter.
4.Perform the duties prescribed in sections 35726, and 35728 and 35913.
5.Stimulate and encourage all local, state,
regional and federal governmental agencies and all private persons and
enterprises that have similar and related objectives and purposes, cooperate
with the agencies, persons and enterprises and correlate department plans,
programs and operations with those of the agencies, persons and enterprises.
6.Conduct research on its own initiative or at the
request of the governor, the legislature or state or local agencies pertaining
to any department objectives.
7.Provide information and advice on request of any
local, state or federal agencies, private persons and business enterprises on
matters within the scope of department activities.
8.Consult with and make recommendations to the
governor and the legislature on all matters concerning department objectives.
9.Make annual reports to the governor and the
legislature on its activities, including the geographic location of its
activities, its finances and the scope of its operations.
C.Under the direction of the director, the
department may:
1.Assist in securing construction and mortgage
financing from public and private sector sources.
2.Assist mortgage financing programs established by
industrial development authorities and political subdivisions of this state.
3.Assist in the acquisition and use of federal
housing assistance programs pertinent to enhance the economic feasibility of a
proposed residential development.
4.Assist in the compliance of a proposed
residential development with applicable federal, state and local codes and
ordinances.
5.Prepare and publish planning and development
guidelines for the establishment and delivery of housing assistance programs.
6.Contract with a federal agency to carry out
financial work on the federal agency's behalf and accept payment for the work.
7.Subcontract for the financial work prescribed in
paragraph 6 of this subsection and make payments for that subcontracted work
based on the expectation that the federal agency will pay for that work.
8.Accept payment from a federal agency for work
prescribed in paragraph6 of this subsection and deposit those payments in
the Arizona department of housing program fund established by section 413957.
9.Contract for the services of outside advisers,
consultants and aides reasonably necessary or desirable to enable the
department to adequately perform its duties.
10.Contract for and incur obligations reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of department activities and
operations to enable the department to adequately perform its duties.
11.Use any media of communication, publication and
exhibition in the dissemination of information, advertising and publicity in
any field of its purposes, objectives or duties.
12.Adopt rules deemed necessary or desirable to
govern its procedures and business.
13.Contract with other agencies in furtherance of
any department program.
14.Use monies, facilities or services to provide
contributions under federal or other programs that further the objectives and
programs of the department.
15.Accept gifts, grants, matching monies or direct
payments from public or private agencies or private persons and enterprises for
the conduct of programs that are consistent with the general purposes and
objectives of this article and deposit these monies in the Arizona department
of housing program fund established by section 413957.
16.Establish and collect fees and receive
reimbursement of costs in connection with any programs or duties performed by
the department and deposit the fees and cost reimbursements in the Arizona
department of housing program fund established by section 413957.
17.Provide
staff support to the Arizona housing finance authority and coordinate its
activities.
D.For the purposes of this section, the department
is exempt from chapter 23 of this title.
E.The department is the designated state public
housing agency as defined in the United States housing act of 1937 (42 United
States Code sections 1401 through 1440) for the purpose of accepting federal
housing assistance monies and may participate in the housing assistance
payments program.Federal monies may be secured for all areas of
this state subject only to the limitations prescribed in subsection F of this
section.
F.For areas of this state where an existing public
housing authority has not been established pursuant to section 361404,
subsection A, the department acting as a public housing agency may undertake
all activities under the section 8 tenantbased rental housing assistance
payment program, except that the department shall not undertake a section 8
tenantbased rental housing assistance payment program within the
boundaries of a city, town or county unless authorized by resolution of the
governing body of the city, town or county.If the department
accepts monies for a section 8 tenantbased rental housing assistance
payment program for areas of this state where an existing public housing
authority has been established pursuant to section 361404, subsection A,
the department shall only accept and secure federal monies to provide housing
for the seriously mentally ill or other populations with
disabilities.The department may accept and secure federal monies
for undertaking all contract administrator activities authorized under a
section 8 projectbased rental housing assistance payment program in all
areas of this state and this participation does not require the authorization
of any local governing body.
G.The department shall not itself directly own,
construct, operate or rehabilitate any housing units, except as may be
necessary to protect the department's collateral or security interest arising
out of any department programs.
H.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, the department may obligate monies as loans or grants applicable to
programs and activities of the department for the purpose of providing housing
opportunities for low or moderate income households or for housing
affordability or to prevent or combat decaying housing stock.Unless
otherwise required by federal or state law, any loan repayments shall be
deposited in the Arizona department of housing program fund established by
section 413957.
I.For any construction project financed by the
department pursuant to subsection C of this section, except for contract
administration activities in connection with the projectbased section 8
program, the department shall notify a city, town, county or tribal government
that a project is planned for its jurisdiction and, before proceeding, shall
seek comment from the governing body of the city, town, county or tribal
government or an official authorized by the governing body of the city, town,
county or tribal government.The department shall not interfere with
or attempt to override the local jurisdiction's planning, zoning or land use
regulations. END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 41-3955, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3955.Housing trust fund; purpose
A.The housing trust fund is
established, and the director shall administer the fund.The fund
consists of monies from unclaimed property deposited in the fund pursuant to
section 44313 and investment earnings.
B.On notice from the
department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
C.Fund monies shall be
spent on approval of the department for developing projects and programs
connected with providing housing opportunities for low and moderate income
households and for housing affordability and
Arizona housing finance authority programs.Pursuant
to section 44313, subsection A, a portion of fund monies shall be used
exclusively for housing in rural areas.
D.In approving the
expenditure of monies, the director shall give priority to funding projects
that provide for operating, constructing or renovating facilities for housing
for low income families and that provide housing and shelter to families that
have children.
E.The director shall
report annually to the legislature on the status of the housing trust fund.
The report shall include a summary of facilities for which funding was provided
during the preceding fiscal year and shall show the cost and geographic
location of each facility and the number of individuals benefiting from the
operation, construction or renovation of the facility. The report shall be
submitted to the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives no later than September 1 of each year.
F.Monies in the housing
trust fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
G.An amount not to exceed
ten per cent percent of the housing trust
fund monies may be appropriated annually by the legislature to the department
for administrative costs in providing services relating to the housing trust
fund.
H.For any construction
project financed by the department pursuant to this section, the department
shall notify a city, town, county or tribal government that a project is
planned for its jurisdiction and, before proceeding, shall seek comment from
the governing body of the city, town, county or tribal government or an
official authorized by the governing body of the city, town, county or tribal
government.The department shall not interfere with or attempt to
override the local jurisdiction's planning, zoning or land use regulations. END_STATUTE
Sec.47.Section 41-3957, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3957.Arizona department of housing program fund; purpose
A.The Arizona department of housing program fund is
established, and the department shall administer the fund. The fund consists
of monies deposited pursuant to sections 35726, 35728 and 413953,
other monies directed to be deposited in the fund and investment earnings on
monies in the fund. On notice from the department, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313, and
monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. All monies in the
fund are designated as special state funds for all purposes of section 35142.
B.Monies in the fund are continuously
appropriated.The department shall use monies in the fund:
1.to
pay the costs of administering the programs from which the deposits are
received and for other department programs. 
2.At the
director's election, to irrevocably transfer to and deposit in any fund
established by the Arizona housing authority in connection with any bonds or
certificates issued by or any other program of the Arizona housing finance
authority.
C.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Repeal
Title 41, chapter 45,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.49.Title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 53, to read:
CHAPTER 53
GOVERNOR'S ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY OFFICE
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE41-5301.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Director"
means the director of the office.
2."Office"
means the governor's economic opportunity office. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5302.Governor's economic opportunity office; funds
A.The
governor's economic opportunity office is established.
B.The
director is responsible for the direction, operation and control of the office.
C.The
governor shall appoint the director of the office pursuant to section 38211
to serve at the pleasure OF the governor.
D.The
governor's economic opportunity office operations fund is established
consisting of monies deposited pursuant to sections 441843, 441861,
441892, 443324 and 443325 and as otherwise provided by
law.The office shall administer the fund.Monies in the
fund are continuously appropriated. Monies in the fund may be used in the
furtherance of the mission of the office and related economic development
interests.
E.The
economic development fund is established consisting of monies received from the
Arizona industrial development authority and the Arizona finance authority as
otherwise provided by law. The office shall administer the fund. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5303.Powers and duties
A.The
director shall:
1.Monitor
this state's tax competitiveness by benchmarking this state against competitor
states and municipalities, monitor the use and evaluate the effectiveness of
state business incentive programs and provide analytical support to the Arizona
commerce authority in its administration of incentive programs.
2.Implement
a systematic data collection and analysis process to benchmark this state's and
local governments' regulatory costs to business and this state's competitive
position in relation to other states.
3.Serve as
this state's workforce planning coordinator, provide staffing support to the
workforce Arizona council, provide stewardship of the state workforce data
evaluation system, provide economic and demographic research and analysis,
including constitutionally required population estimates, provide employment
and unemployment estimates and develop labor market information for the
development of the state workforce strategy.
4.Provide
office and meeting space, administrative support and analytic support to the
Arizona finance authority and coordinate with the Arizona finance authority
director to incorporate finance market intelligence in economic development strategy
and policy recommendations.
5.Develop
data-informed policy and regulatory reform recommendations and provide
assistance with state tax and regulatory matters.
6.Provide
analytical support to the arizona commerce authority in its business
recruitment, growth and retention strategies.
7.Provide
analytical support to the arizona commerce authority, the arizonamexico
commission and the office of tourism in their state marketing strategies.
8.Establish
other duties that further the purpose of the office.
B.The
director may:
1.Contract
and incur obligations reasonably necessary or desirable within the general
scope of the office's activities and operations to enable the office to
adequately perform its duties.
2.Use
monies, facilities or services to provide matching contributions under federal
or other programs that further the objectives and programs of the office.
3.Accept
gifts, grants, matching monies or direct payments from public or private
agencies or private persons and enterprises for the conduct of programs that
are consistent with the general purposes and objectives of this chapter.
4.Provide
staffing support to an industrial development authority established pursuant to
title 35, chapter 5.END_STATUTE
ARTICLE 2.ARIZONA FINANCE AUTHORITY
START_STATUTE41-5351.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Agreement"
means any loan or other agreement, contract, note, mortgage, deed of trust,
trust indenture, lease, sublease or instrument entered into by the authority.
2."Authority"
means the Arizona finance authority.
3."Board"
means the board of directors of the authority.
4."Bonds"
means any bonds issued by the authority.
5."Costs":
(a)Means all costs incurred in the issuance of
bonds, including insurance policy, credit enhancement, legal, accounting,
consulting, printing, advertising and travel expenses, plus any authority
administrative fees.
(b)May include interest on bonds issued by the authority for a
reasonable time before and during the time the proceeds are used.
6."Director"
means the director of the authority.
7."Federal
agency" means the United States or any agency or agencies of the United
States. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5352.Arizona finance authority; fund
A.The
Arizona finance authority is established in the governor's economic opportunity
office.
B.The
governor shall appoint the director of the authority to serve at the pleasure
of the governor.
C.The
Arizona finance authority operations fund is established consisting of monies
deposited pursuant to section 415355. The authority shall administer
the fund. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated.
D.At the
end of the fiscal year, The authority shall transfer all unencumbered monies in
the fund in excess of the authority's operating costs to the economic
development fund established by section 415302. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5353.Board; members; terms; meetings; compensation; prohibition
A.The authority shall be governed by a board of
directors, consisting of five members to be appointed by the governor, giving
due consideration to a diverse geographical representation on the board, and to
serve at the pleasure of the governor.
B.Each member shall serve for a term of three
years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled in
the same manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.
C.The board shall annually elect from among its
members a chairperson, a secretary and a treasurer.
D.The board rules shall provide for regular
annual meetings of the board. The chairperson may call a special meeting at
any time. The board rules shall provide for a method of giving notice of a
special meeting.
E.The board may meet by audioconference or
videoconference.The requirements of title 38, chapter 3, article
3.1 apply to an audioconference or videoconference, except that all votes of
members must be by roll call, and the board may not meet in executive session
by audioconference or videoconference.
F.Members of the board are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible to receive reimbursement for necessary
expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2 while engaged in the
performance of the members' duties.
G.members of the board may not have any direct
or indirect personal financial interest in any project financed under this
article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5354.Powers of board
The board may:
1.Adopt an
official seal and alter the seal at its pleasure.
2.Apply
for, accept and administer grants of monies or materials or property of any
kind from a federal agency or others on such terms and conditions as may be
imposed.
3.Make and
enter into agreements, including intergovernmental agreements pursuant to title
11, chapter 7, article 3, execute all instruments, perform all acts and do all
things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers granted.
4.Employ or
contract with experts, engineers, architects, attorneys, accountants, construction
and financial experts and such other persons as may be necessary in the board's
judgment and fix their compensation.
5.pay
compensation and employeerelated expenses.
6.Fix the
compensation of the director.
7.Sue and
be sued.
8.Acquire
and maintain office space, equipment, supplies, services and insurance
necessary to administer this article.
9.Contract
with, act as guarantor for or coinsure with any federal, state or local
governmental agency and other organizations or corporations in connection with
its activities under this article and receive monies relating to those
contracts and services.
10.Adopt
bylaws and administrative rules consistent with this article.
11.Protect
and enforce the interests of the authority in any project financed through the
authority's resources.
12.Enter
into and inspect any facility financed through the authority's resources to
investigate its physical condition, construction, rehabilitation, operation,
management and maintenance and to examine all of the records relating to its
capitalization, income and other related matters.
13.Acquire
title to real property or other assets by gift, grant or operation of law, or
by purchase.
14.Establish
advisory boards that have all rights and powers granted by the board, including
the right to review, evaluate and recommend to the board for approval proposed
financings.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5355.Assets; cost of operation and administration; taxation
A.Any monies, pledges or property issued or
given to the Arizona finance authority, whether by appropriation, loan, gift or
otherwise, in addition to any monies held by the greater Arizona development
authority, the water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona or any other
fund managed by the Arizona finance authority constitute the assets of the
Arizona finance authority.
B.This state is not responsible for any
obligation incurred by the authority.
C.All costs and expenses of the authority shall
be paid from bond proceeds of bonds issued by any industrial development
authority established by the Arizona finance authority or other monies of the
authority, including, to the extent not prohibited by state or federal law, the
monies of the greater Arizona development authority and the water
infrastructure finance authority of Arizona.
D.The authority and its income are exempt from
taxation in this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5356.Duties of board; advisory board
The board shall:
1.Establish an industrial development authority
under title 35, chapter5 and serve as the board of the industrial
development authority.
2.Serve as the board of the greater Arizona
development authority and have all powers and authority to take action on
behalf of the greater Arizona development authority pursuant to chapter 18 of
this title.
3.Serve as the board of the water infrastructure
finance authority of Arizona and Have all powers and authority to take action
pursuant to title 49, chapter 8 regarding water infrastructure financing.
4.Approve the authority's budget. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5357.Supplemental law
The powers conferred by
this article are in addition and supplemental to the powers conferred by any
other law, general or special, and are deemed full authority for the issuance
of bonds, for entering into agreements in connection therewith and for the
authorization, issuance and sale of bonds pursuant to this article and without
regard to the procedure required by any other such law, except as provided for
in title 44, chapter 12, article 4. END_STATUTE
ARTICLE 3.WORKFORCE
Sec.50.Section 41-1542, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 41, chapter 53,
article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 41-5401, and so renumbered, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-5401.Workforce Arizona council; duties; report
A.The governor by executive order may shall
establish a governor's
council on workforce policy workforce Arizona council and appoint members to the council
consistent with 29 United States Code section 3111.If the governor establishes a governor's
council on workforce policy, the council shall include at least the following
members:
1.The chief
executive officer of the Arizona commerce authority or the chief executive
officer's designee.
2.The
director of the department of economic security or the director's designee.
3.The
superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's designee.
4.One representative
from a rural community college district who is appointed by the governor.
5.One
representative from an urban community college district who is appointed by the
governor.
6.One
representative from organized labor who is appointed by the governor.
7.Representatives
from large businesses who are appointed by the governor and who shall compose
at least thirty per cent of the total membership of the council.
8.Representatives
from small businesses who are appointed by the governor and who shall compose
at least twenty-five per cent of the total membership of the council.
B.The governor's
council on workforce policy workforce Arizona council that is established
by executive order shall develop program
guidelines for selection criteria and program operations.These
guidelines shall include the following areas:
1.Project
application procedures.
2.Categories
of allowable and excluded project costs.
3.Limitations
relating to partial or total project costs and interim and end of project reporting
requirements.
4.Procedures
to assure that both urban and rural economic interests are addressed.
5.Criteria to
evaluate effective use of training monies.
6.Criteria to
determine the annual qualifying wage rate per county so that the qualifying wage
rate reflects current economic conditions and the needs of local businesses in
the county. assist the
governor in:
1.The
development, implementation and modification of a state workforce plan.
2.The
review of statewide policies and programs.The workforce Arizona
council shall make recommendations to the governor on actions that should be
taken to align workforce development programs in a manner that supports a
comprehensive and streamlined workforce development system.
3.The
development and continuous improvement of the workforce development system in
this state.
4.The
development and the updating of comprehensive state performance accountability
measures.
5.The
identification and dissemination of information on workforce best practices.
6.The
development and review of statewide policies affecting the coordinated
provision of services through a onestop delivery system.
7.The
development of strategies for technology improvements to facilitate access to
and improve the quality of services and activities provided through a onestop
delivery system.
8.The
development of strategies for aligning technology and data systems across onestop
partner programs to enhance service delivery and improve efficiencies in
reporting on performance accountability measurement and reporting processes and
the incorporation of local input into the design and implementation of onestop
partner programs.
9.The
development of allocation formulas for the distribution of monies for
employment and training activities for adults and youth workforce investment
activities.
C.The governor's
council on workforce policy workforce Arizona council shall meet at least
four times each year and shall submit a written annual report to the governor,
the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and
the joint legislative budget committee by December 1 of each year. This report
shall include:
1.The
qualifying wage rate per county.
2.The number
of businesses recruited.
3.The number
of approved applicants.
4.The number
of persons hired.
5.The number
of incumbent workers trained.
6.The racial
and ethnic background of persons trained.
7.The number
of persons trained by job skill category.
8.The average
salaries paid.
9.The
breakdown of fulltime and parttime jobs.
10.The
information on the efforts to leverage other training resources.
11.A summary
of the information considered pursuant to section 411543.
12.The number
of grant applications denied due to either of the following:
(a)Insufficient
available grant money.
(b)The
inability to meet the qualifying wage requirements pursuant to subsection B,
paragraph 6 of this section.
13.A summary
of annual spending by state government on workforce development, including
details on each state program that participates in workforce development in any
state agency or community college. The report shall include:
(a)Actual
expenditures from state, federal or other sources for the prior fiscal year, by
fund, program and agency and in total.
(b)Estimated
expenditures from state, federal or other sources for the current fiscal year,
by fund, program and agency and in total.
(c)Federally
mandated performance measure results by program, including measures for the
previous two fiscal years and for the current fiscal year.
(d)Agency or
statewide performance measure results as described in subsection E of this
section by program, including measures for the previous two fiscal years and
for the current fiscal year.
(e)A
strategic plan that identifies:
(i)Each
workforce development program in this state.
(ii)How the
state programs met all performance measures in the previous fiscal year.
1.Information
specifying the levels of performance achieved with respect to the primary
indicators of performance of workforce development programs and performance
with respect to individuals with barriers to employment disaggregated by race,
ethnicity, sex and age.
2.The total
number of participants served by workforce development programs.
3.The
number of participants who received career and training services and the amount
of monies spent on each type of service.
4.The
number of participants who exited from career and training services.
5.The
average cost per participant of those participants who received career and
training services.
6.The
percentage of participants who received training services and obtained
employment in a field related to the training received.
7.The
number of individuals with barriers to employment served by workforce
development programs.
D.Each state agency and community college shall
submit to the governor's council on
workforce policy workforce
Arizona council the information necessary to compile the report
described in subsection C, paragraph 13
3 of this section by
November 1 of each year.
E.The governor's
council on workforce policy workforce Arizona council shall coordinate
with state agencies and state community colleges to produce outcome-based
performance measures for all state workforce development programs. END_STATUTE
Sec.51.Section 41-708, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 41, chapter 53,
article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 41-5402, and so renumbered, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-5402.Population estimates; labor market
information; powers and duties; definition
The office of employment and population statistics is
established under the direction operation and control of the
director.The office shall provide economic and demographic research
and analysis, including constitutionally required population estimates, and
shall provide employment and unemployment estimates.In carrying out
the requirements of this section, the department may:
1.Partner with the federal government as needed
in order to provide detailed employment and unemployment data, population
projections and research data.
2.Receive and expend federal monies.
A.The office shall:
1.Provide
economic and demographic research and analysis, including constitutionally
required population estimates, and provide employment and unemployment
estimates.
2.Produce local labor market information
packages and conduct labor market analyses, including special studies and job
impact analyses in support of state and local employment, training, education
and job creation programs and activities that support programs designed to
align employer needs with the employment base to reduce unemployment and create
jobs.
3.Support the development and implementation of
the workforce innovation and opportunity act (P.L. 113128; 128 Stat.
1425).
B.The office may:
1.Establish mechanisms to recover actual costs
incurred in producing, maintaining and providing otherwise unfunded labor
market information that is aligned with all applicable federal guidelines.
2.Receive federal setaside monies from
any federal program that is authorized to fund state and local labor market
information and that is required to use the information in support of the
federal program.
3.Coordinate with other state agencies to study
ways to standardize and enhance federal and state multiagency administrative
records and information, such as unemployment insurance information, to produce
the employment, training, education and economic analysis needed to improve
labor market information products and services.
4.Partner
with the federal government as needed in order to provide detailed employment
and unemployment data, population projections and research data.
C.for the purposes of this section, "Labor market information"
means the body of information generated from measurement and evaluation of the
socioeconomic factors and variables influencing the employment process in this
state and specific labor market areas. Data used for measurement and evaluation
may include unemployment insurance information received according to specific
data sharing agreements with the department of economic security. The
socioeconomic factors and variables that affect labor demand and supply
relationships include:
1.Labor force information, including unemployment, labor force
participation, labor turnover and mobility, average hours and earnings and changes and characteristics of
the population and labor force within specific labor market areas in this state.
2.Occupational information, including occupational supply and demand
estimates and projections, characteristics of occupations, wage levels, job
duties, training and education requirements, conditions of employment,
unionization, retirement practices and training opportunities.
3.Economic information, including number of business starts and stops by industry and labor market
area, information on employment growth and decline by industry and labor market
area, employer establishment data and number of labormanagement disputes
by industry and labor
market area.
4.Program information, including program participant or student information gathered in cooperation
with other state and local agencies along with related labor market information
to evaluate the
effectiveness, efficiency
and impact of state and local employment, training, education and job creation efforts in support of planning, management, implementation and evaluation.END_STATUTE
Sec.52.Title 41,
chapter 53, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections
415403 and 415404, to read:
START_STATUTE41-5403.Workforce data stewardship
A.tHE GOVERNOR'S ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY OFFICE AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC SECURITY SHALL ENTER INTO A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ON OR BEFORE sEPTEMBER 30, 2016 TO ESTABLISH that THE GOVERNOR'S ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY OFFICE IS THE DESIGNATED OFFICE FOR THIS STATE AND IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR FULFILLING unemployment insurance data REQUESTs BY ENTITIES SPECIFIED IN
SECTION 23722.04, SUBSECTION a.
b.tHE GOVERNOR'S
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY OFFICE AND THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC SECURITY IN THE
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING SHALL ESTABLISH SPECIFICATIONS FOR QUARTERLY DATA
TRANSMISSIONS OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNOR'S ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY OFFICE. tHE INITIAL TRANSMISSION SHALL INCLUDE ALL ARCHIVEd DATA
AVAILABLE. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5404.Workforce data task force; membership;
duties; report; task force termination
A.The
workforce data task force is established in the governors economic opportunity
office to oversee workforce system evaluation data sharing. The task force
shall consist of the following members:
1.The
director of the governor's economic opportunity office, or the director's
designee, who shall serve as chairperson of the task force.
2.The
director of the department of economic security or the director's designee.
3.The
superintendent of public instruction or the superintendent's designee.
4.The
president of the Arizona board of regents or the president's designee.
5.A
representative of a community college district or the representative's
designee.
B.The
director of the governor's economic opportunity office may appoint advisory
members to the task force as necessary.
C.Members
of the task force are not eligible to receive compensation. The governor's
economic opportunity office shall provide adequate staff support for the task
force.
D.The
task force shall:
1.Oversee
development and maintenance of the state workforce evaluation data system.
2.Define
and regularly review requirements, structures and methodologies for the system,
including:
(a)A retention schedule
for unemployment insurance records that supports the longitudinal evaluation of
workforce and education programs.
(b)Data standards relating
to unemployment insurance data, including rules for definition, format, source,
provenance, element level and contextual integrity. 
(c)Technical requirements
for the storage, handling and distribution of data. 
(d)System performance
expectations. 
(e)Controls for data
confidentiality and data security for unemployment data, including when data is
in transmission. 
(f)Data quality and
reporting standards. 
(g)Required elements for
data sharing agreements that conform to relevant state and federal requirements
and that establish adequacy of receiving system requirements.
(h)A methodology to fund
the development and ongoing database costs from existing resources of entities
that have entered into current data sharing agreements pursuant to section
23-722.04.
3.Provide
analyses and recommendations for all of the following:
(a)Data audit management,
including data quality metrics, sanctions and incentives for data quality
improvement. 
(b)Documentation
standards for data elements and systems components.
(c)Data archival and
retrieval management systems, including change control and change tracking.
(d)Publication of
standard and ad hoc reports for state and local level use on workforce system
performance. 
4.Submit
an annual report regarding the task force's activities on or before November 1
to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives and provide a copy of this report to the secretary of
state.The initial report shall include all initial requirements,
structures and methodologies determined pursuant to this section.
E.The
task force established by this section ends on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section
413103.END_STATUTE
Sec.53.Section 44-1843, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1843.Exempt securities; fee; filing
A.Sections 441841 and 441842, section
441843.02, subsections B and C and sections 443321 and 443325
do not apply to any of the following classes of securities:
1.Securities issued or guaranteed by the United
States, by any state, territory or insular possession of the United States, by
any political subdivision of such state, territory or insular possession, by
the District of Columbia or by any agency or instrumentality of one or more of
any of the foregoing. This exemption shall not apply to securities regulated
pursuant to section 441843.01.
2.Securities issued by a national bank, a bank or a
credit or loan association organized pursuant to an act of Congress and
supervised by the United States or an agency of the United States, or issued by
a state bank or savings institution the business of which is supervised and
regulated by an agency of this state or of the United States.
3.Securities issued by a savings and loan
association subject to supervision by an agency of this state.
4.Insurance or endowment policies, variable
contracts, annuity contracts or optional annuity contracts issued by a person
subject to the supervision of and licensed by the insurance commissioner, the
bank commissioner or any agency of the United States, any state or the District
of Columbia performing like functions.
5.Securities issued
or guaranteed either as to principal, interest or dividend by a railroad or
public utility if the issuance of its securities is regulated by an agency of
the United States, a state, territory or insular possession of the United
States, an agency of the District of Columbia or an agency of the Dominion of
Canada or any province of the Dominion of Canada, and also equipment trust
certificates in respect to equipment conditionally sold or leased to a railroad
or public utility, if other securities issued by such railroad or public utility
would be exempt under this paragraph.
6.Securities issued by a person that is organized
and operated exclusively for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal,
charitable or reformatory purposes and not for pecuniary profit, and no part of
the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any person, private
stockholder or individual and securities issued by or any interest or
participation in any pooled income fund, collective trust fund, collective
investment fund or similar fund that is excluded from the definition of an
investment company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the investment company act of
1940.The exemption prescribed in this paragraph does not apply to
any of the following, unless excluded from the definition of an investment company
under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the investment company act of 1940:
(a)Securities made liens upon revenue producing
property subject to taxation.
(b)Securities issued by a nonprofit organization
that is engaged in, intends to engage in, controls, finances or lends funds or
property to other entities engaged in the construction, operation, maintenance
or management of a hospital, sanitarium, rest home, clinic, medical hotel,
mortuary, cemetery, mausoleum or other similar facilities.
(c)Interest bearing or noninterest bearing debt
securities except for first mortgage bonds issued by individual churches and
affiliated religious schools in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed
twentyfive million dollars by any one single issuer provided that no commission
or remuneration of any kind, other than transfer agent's fees, is paid,
directly or indirectly, to any person other than a registered dealer or
registered salesman in connection with the offer for sale or sale of such
bonds.
(d)Securities whose terms include significant
features that are common to debt securities and that the commission finds are
the functional equivalent of debt securities.
7.Securities listed or approved for listing upon
the issuance thereof upon the New York stock exchange, the American stock
exchange, the midwest stock exchange or any other national securities exchange
that is registered under the securities exchange act of 1934 and that is
designated by the commission as provided in this paragraph, and securities
designated or approved for designation on notice of issuance on the national
market system of a national securities association registered under the
securities exchange act of 1934, and all securities senior or equal in rank to
any securities so listed or approved for listing, designated or approved for
designation or represented by subscription rights or warrants that have been so
listed, designated or approved and any warrant or right to purchase or
subscribe to any of the foregoing. In addition to the securities exchanges
prescribed in this paragraph, the commission may by order designate any
registered national securities exchange if it finds that it would be in the
public interest for securities listed on the exchange to be exempt. The
commission may at any time by order withdraw a designation of an exchange or
association made under this paragraph.
8.Commercial paper that arises out of a current
transaction or the proceeds of which have been or are to be used for current
transactions, that evidences an obligation to pay cash within nine months of
the date of issuance or sale, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal of
such paper that is likewise limited, or any guarantee of such paper or of any
such renewal.
9.Securities issued or guaranteed by any foreign
government with which the United States is at the time of the sale maintaining
diplomatic relations, or securities issued or guaranteed by a political
subdivision of such foreign government having the power of taxation, if none of
the securities of the foreign government or political subdivision are in
default either as to principal or interest, and which securities when offered
for sale in this state are acknowledged as valid obligations by the foreign
government or political subdivision and registered under the securities act of
1933.
10.Notes or bonds secured by a mortgage or deed of
trust on real estate or chattels, or a contract or agreement for the sale of
real estate or chattels, if the entire mortgage, contract or agreement together
with all notes or bonds secured thereby is sold or offered for sale as a unit,
except for real property investment contracts.
11.Mortgage related securities, as defined in
section 3(a)(41) of the securities exchange act of 1934.
B.Issuers of securities that are exempt under
subsection A, paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 of this section, within thirty days after
the first sale of the securities in this state, shall pay to the commission a
fee of two hundred dollars for each offering, and the commission shall deposit
the fees in the Arizona competes fund
established by section 411545.01 governor's economic opportunity office operations fund
established by section 415302.
C.Any securities that are offered and sold pursuant
to section 4(5) of the securities act of 1933 or that are mortgage related
securities as the term is defined in section 3(a)(41) of the securities
exchange act of 1934 are not preempted by federal law. These instruments,
commonly referred to as private mortgage backed securities, may be exempt from
the registration requirements of this chapter if the transaction or the
securities are otherwise exempt under this chapter. This subsection
specifically overrides the preemption of state law contained in section 106(c)
of the secondary mortgage market enhancement act of 1984 (P.L. 98440).
D.Noncompliance with the requirements in subsection
B of this section to pay fees shall not result in the loss of the exemption
allowed by this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.54.Section
44-1861, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1861.Fees; deposit; abandonment
A.By the affirmative vote of at least four
commissioners, the commission may establish by rule an annual fee for the
registration of a dealer or a salesman.The fee shall be remitted on
or before the last working day of December, and the commission shall deposit
the fee, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039.
B.The registration fee for any dealer who deals
exclusively in securities of which the dealer is the issuer is one hundred
dollars.
C.For registration of securities by description,
there shall be paid to the commission a nonrefundable registration fee of
one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate
offering price of the securities that are to be sold in this state, but in no
event shall the registration fee be less than two hundred dollars nor more than
two thousand dollars. The amount by which a registration fee exceeds one
thousand five hundred dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01
governor's economic opportunity office
operations fund established by section 415302.
D.By the affirmative vote of at least four
commissioners, the commission may establish by rule a transfer fee for a
salesman transferring the salesman's registration from one registered dealer to
another registered dealer.The commission shall deposit the fee,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039.
E.The initial filing of a form required for safe
harbor exemptions provided for in the securities act of 1933 (15 United States
Code section 77(a) et seq.) pursuant to the rules of the commission shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars, of which fifty
dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona
competes fund established by section 41-1545.01 governor's economic opportunity office operations fund
established by section 415302. The final filing of the
form, if separate from the initial filing, shall be accompanied by a filing fee
of one hundred dollars that is allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section 41-1545.01
governor's economic opportunity office
operations fund established by section 415302.
F.For a name change of securities registered by
qualification or description, a filing fee of one hundred dollars is payable to
the commission.
G.For filing a notice required by the commission by
rule pursuant to section 441845, a filing fee of one hundred dollars is
payable to the commission.
H.For filing a petition pursuant to section 441846,
a filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars is payable to the commission.
I.Except as provided in subsections A, C, D, E and
P of this section, section 441843 and section 441892, paragraph
3, all fees collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the state
general fund.
J.An issuer who sells securities in this state in
excess of the aggregate amount of securities registered in this state, while
the registration is still effective, may apply to register the excess
securities by paying three times the difference between the initial
registration fee paid and the registration fee required under subsection C of
this section or section 441892, paragraph 3. Registration of the excess
securities, if granted, is effective retroactively to the date of the existing
registration.
K.An application for registration of securities or
registration of a dealer or salesman or an incomplete notice filing is deemed
abandoned if both:
1.The application or notice filing has been on file
with the commission for at least six months or the applicant or notice filer
has failed to respond to a request for information for at least two months
after the date of the request.
2.The applicant or notice filer has failed to
respond to the commission's notice of warning of abandonment within sixty
calendar days after the date of the warning.
L.The commission shall retain fees collected in
connection with abandoned applications or notice filings for deposit in the
state general fund.
M.The nonrefundable filing fee for a request for a
noaction letter from the securities division is two hundred dollars.
N.The nonrefundable filing fee for an application
for registration pursuant to section 441902 is two hundred fifty
dollars.
O.The fee for submitting fingerprint cards to the
department of public safety is the fee required by that department.
P.Any securities exchange established in this state
shall pay to the commission on or before March 15 of each calendar year an
exchange registration fee in an amount equal to twotenths of one cent
for each share, bond or option or any other single unit of a security that is
exchanged during each preceding calendar year. The commission shall deposit
the fee, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039 for the
purpose of regulating the securities exchange. The commission, by rule, may
exempt any sale of securities or any class of sales of securities from the fee
imposed by this subsection if it finds that an exemption is consistent with the
public interest and the equal regulation of the market and brokers and dealers.
END_STATUTE
Sec.55.Section 44-1892, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1892.Documents required for application for registration by
qualification; fee
Application for registration of securities by qualification
shall be made by the issuer of the securities by filing with the commission the
following documents:
1.An application for registration of securities by
qualification as provided by section 441893.
2.A prospectus as provided by section 441894,
except as provided in section 441901.
3.A nonrefundable registration fee of one-tenth of
one per cent percent of the aggregate
offering price of securities to be sold in this state, but the registration fee
shall not be less than two hundred nor more than two thousand dollars. The
amount by which a registration fee exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars
shall be allocated to the Arizona
competes fund established by section 411545.01 governor's economic opportunity office
operations fund established by section 415302.
4.A consent to service of process as provided by
section 441862, if the issuer is not domiciled in this state and is not
an entity organized under the laws of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.56.Section 44-3324, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-3324.Notice filing fees
A.When filing its initial notice filing, an
open-end company shall pay a nonrefundable notice filing fee for sales to be
made during the initial notice period. The openend company may elect to
pay either a minimum fee of two hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three
thousand five hundred dollars. If paying the maximum fee, an open-end company
is not required to file a sales report at the expiration of the notice period.
B.An openend company that renews its notice
filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection B shall pay both of
the following nonrefundable notice filing fees no later than the expiration of
the current notice period:
1.For sales to be made during the current fiscal
year, the open-end company may elect to pay either a minimum fee of two hundred
dollars or a maximum fee of three thousand five hundred dollars. If paying the
maximum fee, an openend company is not required to file a sales report
at the time of its next renewal notice filing.
2.A fee for sales that occurred during the prior
fiscal year, as those sales are reported pursuant to section 443323,
subsection C. The fee is equal to onetenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of securities
actually sold in this state during the prior fiscal year minus two hundred
dollars, but in no event more than three thousand three hundred dollars. If
the maximum fee was previously paid for the prior fiscal year, the openend
company is not required to pay any additional fees under this paragraph.
C.An open-end company that does not renew its
notice filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection B and that
did not previously pay the maximum fee for the notice period shall pay a
nonrefundable notice filing fee no later than two months after the expiration
of its current notice period for sales that occurred during the prior fiscal
year and during the two month period from the end of the prior fiscal year to
the expiration of the notice period, as those sales are reported pursuant to
section 443323, subsection D. The fee is equal to one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of
securities actually sold in this state during the prior fiscal year and during
the two month period from the end of the prior fiscal year to the expiration of
the notice period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event more than three
thousand three hundred dollars.If the maximum fee was previously
paid for the prior fiscal year, the openend company is not required to
pay any additional fees under this subsection.
D.When filing its initial notice filing, a unit
investment trust shall pay a nonrefundable notice filing fee for sales to be
made during the initial notice period. The unit investment trust may elect to
pay either a minimum fee of two hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three
thousand five hundred dollars. If paying the maximum fee, the unit investment
trust is not required to file a sales report at the end of the expiration of
the notice period.
E.A unit investment trust that elects to renew its
notice filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection C shall pay
both of the following nonrefundable notice filing fees:
1.For sales to be made during the renewal notice
period, a unit investment trust may elect to pay either a minimum fee of two
hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three thousand five hundred dollars. The
fee shall be paid no later than the expiration date of the current notice
period. If paying the maximum fee, a unit investment trust is not required to
file a sales report within two months after the expiration of the renewal
notice period.
2.A fee for sales that occurred during the expiring
notice period, as those sales are reported pursuant to section 443323,
subsection E. The fee shall be equal to onetenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of securities
actually sold in this state by the unit investment trust during the prior
notice period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event more than three thousand
three hundred dollars. The fee shall be paid no later than two months after
the expiration date of the prior notice period. If the maximum fee was
previously paid for the expiring notice period, the unit investment trust is
not required to pay any additional fees under this paragraph.
F.A unit investment
trust that does not renew its notice filing in accordance with section 443322,
subsection C and that did not previously pay the maximum fee for the notice
period shall pay, within two months after the expiration of the notice period,
a nonrefundable notice filing fee for sales that occurred during the prior
notice period as such sales are reported pursuant to section 443323,
subsection F. The fee is equal to one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of securities
actually sold in this state by the unit investment trust during the prior
notice period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event more than three
thousand three hundred dollars. If the maximum fee was previously paid for the
expiring notice period, the unit investment trust is not required to pay any
additional fees under this subsection.
G.An issuer that fails to timely file any sales
report required by section 443323 shall pay a late filing fee in the
amount of two hundred dollars. An issuer that fails to timely pay any notice
filing fees required pursuant to this section shall pay the required notice
filing fee together with a late payment fee equal to one-half of the amount of
the required notice filing fee.
H.The fees collected pursuant to this section shall
be deposited as follows:
1.Eighty per
cent percent in
the securities regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039.
2.Ten per
cent percent in
the Arizona competes fund established by
section 411545.01 governor's
economic opportunity office operations fund established by section 415302.
3.Ten per
cent percent in
the investment management regulatory and enforcement fund established by
section 443298. END_STATUTE
Sec.57.Section 44-3325, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-3325.Notice filings by closedend companies
A.Securities that are issued by a closedend
company may be offered for sale and sold in this state if the commission
receives all of the following from the closedend company:
1.The documents that are filed with the SEC and
that are required by the commission.
2.A consent to service of process.
3.A notice filing fee calculated pursuant to this
section.
B.A notice filing is effective and renewable on the
filing date with the commission or the effective date with the SEC, whichever
occurs last, and the notice filing is effective for one year from that date.
C.A closedend company shall include with the
company's notice filing a notice filing fee of one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate offering price of securities sold
in this state, but the fee shall not be less than two hundred dollars and not
more than two thousand dollars. The amount by which a notice filing fee
exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01
governor's economic opportunity office
operations fund established by section 415302.
D.A closed-end company shall file a report of all
sales of securities to persons in this state during the period of the notice
filing. The closedend company shall file the report with the commission
within sixty days after the termination date of the offering within this state
or the expiration date of the notice filing, whichever occurs first. A closedend
company that fails to timely file a report of sales shall pay a late filing fee
of two hundred dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.58.Section 48-6202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-6202.Formation of district
A.The governing bodies of a city with a population
of more than one million persons and a county with a population of more than
one hundred twentyfive thousand but less than one hundred fifty thousand
persons and a city with a population of more than three thousand persons but
less than five thousand persons that is located entirely in that county may
establish in any combination that includes the county a theme park district as
provided by this chapter. For the purposes of this subsection, the population
shall be determined according to the most recent population estimate data
produced by the office of employment and
population statistics governor's
economic opportunity office at the time the district is
established. The district may include theme park sites in one or both cities
or in the county establishing the district, or in any combination of a city or
cities and a county, including a combination of a county with a population of
more than one hundred twentyfive thousand but less than one hundred
fifty thousand persons and a city with a population of more than three thousand
persons but less than five thousand persons that is located entirely in that
county. The city or cities and the county shall establish the geographical
boundaries of the district, which shall include only the sites of the theme
parks. The district may be established with a single theme park site, any
additional sites may be added after the district is initially established and
the geographical boundaries of the district may be revised after it is
initially established.
B.The district is a corporate and political body
and, except as otherwise limited, modified or provided by this chapter, has all
of the rights, powers and immunities of municipal corporations.
C.The district is considered to be a tax levying
public improvement district for the purposes of article XIII, section 7,
Constitution of Arizona.
D.The district is regarded as performing a
governmental function in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter.The property acquired or constructed by the district, the
activities of the district in maintaining and caring for the property and the
monies derived by the district from operating the property are exempt from
state and local income and property taxation. END_STATUTE
Sec.59.Section 49-1201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-1201.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Authority" means the water
infrastructure authority of Arizona.
2."Board" means the board of directors of
the arizona finance authority established by title 41, chapter 53, article
2.
3."Bonds of a political subdivision"
means bonds issued by a political subdivision as authorized by law.
4."Clean water act" means the federal
water pollution control act amendments of 1972 (P.L. 92500; 86 Stat.
816), as amended by the water quality act of 1987 (P.L. 1004; 101 Stat.
7).
5."Committee"
means the water supply development fund committee established by section
49-1202, subsection B.
6.5."Drinking
water facility" means a community water system or a nonprofit noncommunity
water system as defined in the safe drinking water act of 1974 (P.L. 93523; 88 Stat. 1660 1661; P.L. 95190;91
Stat.1393; P.L.104182; 110 Stat. 1613) that is located in
this state.For purposes of this chapter, drinking water facility
does not include water systems owned by federal agencies.
7.6."Financial
assistance loan repayment agreement" means an agreement to repay a loan
provided to design, construct, acquire, rehabilitate or improve water or
wastewater infrastructure, related property and appurtenances or a loan
provided to finance a water supply development project.
8.7."Indian
tribe" means any Indian tribe, band, group or community that is recognized
by the United States secretary of the interior and that exercises governmental
authority within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of
the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and
including rightsofway running through the reservation.
9.8."Nonpoint
source project" means a project designed to implement a certified water
quality management plan.
10.9."Political
subdivision" means a county, city, town or special taxing district
authorized by law to construct wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water
facilities or nonpoint source projects.
11.10."Safe
drinking water act" means the federal safe drinking water act of 1974 (P.L.93523;
88 Stat. 1660 1661; P.L. 95190; 91
Stat. 1393; P.L.104182; 110 Stat. 1613), as amended in 1996.
12.11."Technical
assistance loan repayment agreement" means either of the following:
(a)An agreement to repay a loan provided to
develop, plan and design water or wastewater infrastructure, related property
and appurtenances. The agreement shall be for a term of not more than three
years and the maximum amount that may be borrowed is limited to not more than
five hundred thousand dollars.
(b)An agreement to repay a loan provided to
develop, plan or design a water supply development project.
13.12."Wastewater
treatment facility" means a treatment works, as defined in section 212 of
the clean water act, that is located in this state and that is designed to
hold, cleanse or purify or to prevent the discharge of untreated or
inadequately treated sewage or other polluted waters for purposes of complying
with the clean water act.
14.13."Water
provider" means any of the following:
(a)A municipal water delivery system as defined in
section 425301, paragraphs 1 and 3.
(b)A municipal water delivery system as defined in
section 425301, paragraph 2, which has entered into a partnership with a
city, town or county for a water supply augmentation plan.
(c)A county water augmentation authority
established under title 45, chapter 11.
(d)A county water authority established under title
45, chapter 13.
(e)An Indian tribe.
(f)A community facilities district as established
by title 48, chapter 4.
(g)For purposes of funding from the water supply
development revolving fund pursuant to article 3 of this chapter only, a county
that enters into an intergovernmental agreement or other formal written
agreement with a city, town or other water provider regarding a water supply
development project.
15.14."Water
supply development" means either of the following:
(a)The acquisition of water or rights to or
contracts for water to augment the water supply of a water provider, including
any environmental or other reviews, permits or plans reasonably necessary for
that acquisition.
(b)The development of facilities, including any
environmental or other reviews, permits or plans reasonably necessary for those
facilities, for any of the following purposes:
(i)Conveyance, storage or recovery of water.
(ii)Reclamation and reuse of water.
(iii)Replenishment of groundwater. END_STATUTE
Sec.60.Section 49-1202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-1202.Water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona
A.The
water infrastructure finance authority of Arizona is established in the Arizona finance authority.
A The arizona finance authority board of
directors shall govern the Water
infrastructure finance authority of Arizona.The board of directors consists of:
1.The
director of environmental quality, or the director's representative, who serves
as chairman.
2.The chief
executive officer of the Arizona commerce authority or the chief executive
officer's representative.
3.The state
treasurer or the treasurer's representative.
4.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent municipalities with populations
of fifty thousand persons or more.
5.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent municipalities with populations
of less than fifty thousand persons from a county with a population of less
than five hundred thousand persons.
6.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent counties with populations of five
hundred thousand persons or more.
7.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent sanitary districts in counties
with populations of less than five hundred thousand persons.
8.The director
of water resources or the director's representative.
9.The
chairman of the Arizona corporation commission or the chairman's
representative.
10.One member
who is appointed by the governor from a public water system that serves five
hundred persons or more.
11.One member
who is appointed by the governor from a public water system that serves fewer
than five hundred persons.
12.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent Indian tribes.
B.The water
supply development fund committee of the authority is established. The
committee consists of:
1.The
director of water resources, or the director's representative, who serves as
chairperson of the committee.
2.The
director of environmental quality, or the director's representative, who serves
as vicechairperson of the committee.
3.The
chairman of the corporation commission or the chairman's representative.
4.The state
treasurer or the treasurer's representative.
5.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent municipalities with populations
of fifty thousand persons or more but less than one hundred thousand persons.
6.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent municipalities with populations
of less than fifty thousand persons from a county with a population of less
than five hundred thousand persons.
7.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent counties with populations of less
than eight hundred thousand persons.
8.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent counties with populations of
eight hundred thousand persons or more but less than one million five hundred
thousand persons.
9.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent counties with populations of one
million five hundred thousand persons or more.
10.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent cities with populations of more
than one hundred thousand persons in counties with populations of more than one
million persons.
11.One member
who is appointed by the governor from a public service corporation that serves
one thousand eight hundred fifty persons or more.
12.One member
who is appointed by the governor from a public water system that serves fewer
than one thousand eight hundred fifty persons.
13.One member
who is appointed by the governor to represent Indian tribes.
C.Members of
the board and the committee who are appointed by the governor serve at the
governor's pleasure and serve staggered five year terms. Members of the board
and the committee are not eligible to receive compensation for their services
but are eligible for reimbursement for travel and other expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2.Members of the board and the
committee are public officers for purposes of title 38, and the authority and
the committee are public bodies for purposes of title 38, chapter 3, article
3.1.
D.Members of
the board shall not have any direct or indirect personal financial interest in
any clean water or drinking water project financed under this article. Members
of the committee shall not have any direct or indirect personal financial
interest in any water supply development project financed under this article.
For the purposes of this subsection, a member of the board or the committee who
is a fulltime employee of a participant in or applicant for a loan does
not have a direct or indirect personal financial interest in a
project.A violation of this subsection is a class 1 misdemeanor.
E.The
department of environmental quality shall provide clerical support and office
and meeting space to the board.
F.The
department of water resources shall provide technical assistance to the
committee as requested by the committee. END_STATUTE
Sec.61.Section
49-1203, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-1203.Powers and duties of authority; definition
A.The authority is a
corporate and politic body and shall have an official seal that shall be
judicially noticed.The authority may sue and be sued, contract and
acquire, hold, operate and dispose of property.
B.The authority, through its board, may:
1.Issue negotiable water quality bonds pursuant to
section 491261 for the following purposes:
(a)To generate the state match required by the
clean water act for the clean water revolving fund and to generate the match
required by the safe drinking water act for the drinking water revolving fund.
(b)To provide financial assistance to political
subdivisions, Indian tribes and eligible drinking water facilities for
constructing, acquiring or improving wastewater treatment facilities, drinking
water facilities, nonpoint source projects and other related water quality
facilities and projects.
2.Issue water supply development bonds for the
purpose of providing financial assistance to water providers for water supply
development purposes pursuant to sections 491274 and 491275.
3.Provide financial assistance to political
subdivisions and Indian tribes from monies in the clean water revolving fund to
finance wastewater treatment projects.
4.Provide financial assistance to drinking water
facilities from monies in the drinking water revolving fund to finance these
facilities.
5.Provide financial assistance to water providers
from monies in the water supply development revolving fund to finance water
supply development.
6.Guarantee debt obligations of, and provide linked
deposit guarantees through third party lenders to:
(a)Political subdivisions that are issued to
finance wastewater treatment projects.
(b)Drinking water facilities that are issued to
finance these facilities.
(c)Water providers that are issued to finance water
supply development projects.
7.Provide linked deposit guarantees through third
party lenders to political subdivisions, drinking water facilities and water
providers.
8.Apply for, accept and administer grants and other
financial assistance from the United States government and from other public
and private sources.
9.Enter into capitalization grant agreements with
the United States environmental protection agency.
10.Adopt rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6
governing the application for and awarding of wastewater treatment facility,
drinking water facility and nonpoint source project financial assistance under
this chapter, the administration of the clean water revolving fund and the
drinking water revolving fund and the issuance of water quality bonds.
11.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, hire
a director and staff for the authority.
12.Contract for the services of outside advisors,
attorneys, consultants and aides reasonably necessary or desirable to allow the
authority to adequately perform its duties.
13.Contract and incur obligations as reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of authority activities and
operations to allow the authority to adequately perform its duties.
14.Assess financial
assistance origination fees and annual fees to cover the reasonable costs of
administering the authority and the monies administered by the
authority.Any fees collected pursuant to this paragraph constitute
governmental revenue and may be used for any purpose consistent with the
mission and objectives of the authority.
15.Perform any function of a fund manager under the
CERCLA Brownfields cleanup revolving loan fund program as requested by the
department. The board shall perform any action authorized under this article
on behalf of the Brownfields cleanup revolving loan fund program established
pursuant to chapter 2, article 1.1 of this title at the request of the
department. In order to perform these functions, the board shall enter into a
written agreement with the department.
16.Provide grants, staff assistance or technical
assistance in the form of loan repayment agreements and other professional
assistance to political subdivisions, any county with a population of less than
five hundred thousand persons, Indian tribes and community water systems in
connection with the development or financing of wastewater, drinking water,
water reclamation or related water infrastructure. Assistance provided under a
technical assistance loan repayment agreement shall be in a form and under
terms determined by the authority and shall be repaid not more than three years
after the date that the monies are advanced to the applicant. The provision of
technical assistance by the authority does not create any liability for the
authority or this state regarding the design, construction or operation of any
infrastructure project.
17.Provide grants, staff assistance or technical
assistance in the form of loan repayment agreements and other professional
assistance to water providers in connection with the planning or design of
water supply development projects as
determined by the committee pursuant to section 491274.A
single grant shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars. Assistance provided
under a technical assistance loan repayment agreement shall be in a form and under terms determined by the committee and
shall be repaid not more than three years after the date that the
monies are advanced to the applicant. The provision of technical assistance by
the authority or the committee
does not create any liability for the authority, the committee or this state regarding the
design, construction or operation of any water supply development project.
C.The authority, in consultation with the committee, may:
1.adopt
rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6 governing the application for and
awarding of water supply development fund project financial assistance under
this chapter and the administration of the water supply development revolving
fund.
2.Appoint a
technical advisory subcommittee of not more than five persons with expertise in
water resource planning and development to advise the committee regarding the
technical feasibility of water supply development projects.
D.The board shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, any monies received pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 8 of
this section in the appropriate fund as prescribed by the grant or other
financial assistance agreement.
E.Disbursements of monies by the water
infrastructure finance authority pursuant to a financial assistance agreement
are not subject to title 41, chapter 23.
F.For the purposes of the safe drinking water act,
the department of environmental quality is the state agency with primary
responsibility for administration of this state's public water system
supervision program and, in consultation with other appropriate state agencies,
is the lead agency in establishing assistance priorities as prescribed by
section 491243, subsection A, paragraph 6 and section 491244,
subsection B, paragraph 3.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"CERCLA" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49201. END_STATUTE
Sec.62.Department of administration; transfer; governor's
economic opportunity office; lapsing; exemption
A.Notwithstanding any other law, on the effective
date of this act, the amount of $568,700, on a prorated basis, and any related
appropriation in fiscal year 2016-2017 are transferred from the state general
fund operating lump sum appropriation for the department of administration to
the governor's economic opportunity office.
B.The transfer made in subsection A of this section
is exempt from the provisions of section 35190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations.
Sec.63.Transfer of monies
All unexpended and unencumbered monies, as of the date of the
establishment of the Arizona industrial development authority, remaining in the
Arizona international development authority fund established by section 414505,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as repealed by this act, or any bank accounts or funds
established pursuant to title 36, chapter 4.2, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
repealed by this act, title 41, chapter 37, article 1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as repealed by this act, or title 41, chapter 45,
ArizonaRevised Statutes, as repealed by this act, are transferred to the
Arizona industrial development authority established pursuant to title 35,
chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
Sec.64.Purpose 
Pursuant to section 412955,
subsection E, Arizona Revised Statutes, the legislature establishes the
governor's economic opportunity office to facilitate the beneficial economic
growth and development of this state and to promote prosperity through
development and protection of the legitimate interests of Arizona business,
industry and commerce within and outside this state.
Sec.65.Transfer of powers; effect
A.All matters,
including contracts, obligations, agreements, orders and judicial or
quasi-judicial actions, whether completed or pending, of the department of economic
security relating to the development of allocation formulas for the
distribution of workforce innovation and opportunity act (P.L. 113-128; 128
Stat. 1425) monies, and the Arizona commerce authority and the Arizona
department of administration relating to the workforce innovation and
opportunity act (P.L. 113-128; 128 Stat. 1425), are transferred, on the
effective date of this act, and maintain the same status with the governor's
economic opportunity office.
B.Rules adopted by the department of economic
security and the Arizona commerce authority for purposes of implementing the
workforce innovation and opportunity act (P.L. 113128; 128 Stat. 1425)
are effective until superseded by rules adopted by the governor's economic
opportunity office.
C.All personnel, property and records, all data and
investigative findings and all monies remaining unspent and unencumbered of the
department of economic security and the Arizona commerce authority related to
the activities outlined in subsection A of this section are transferred to the
governor's economic opportunity office and may be used for the purposes of this
act.
Sec.66.Arizona finance authority; bond volume
The Arizona finance authority assumes the administration of the
bond volume cap allocation process on the effective date of this act.
Sec.67.Succession
A.As provided by this
act, the Arizona industrial development authority established pursuant to title
35, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, succeeds to the authority,
powers, duties and responsibilities of the Arizona health facilities authority,
the Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international development
authority.
B.This act does not
alter the effect of any actions that were taken or impair the valid obligations
of the Arizona health facilities authority, the Arizona housing finance
authority and the Arizona international development authority in existence
before the effective date of this act.
C.Administrative rules
and orders that were adopted by the Arizona health facilities authority, the
Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international development
authority continue in effect until superseded by administrative action by the
Arizona industrial development authority established pursuant to title 35,
chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
D.All administrative
matters, contracts and judicial and quasijudicial actions, whether
completed, pending or in process, of the Arizona health facilities authority,
the Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international development
authority on the effective date of this act are transferred to and retain the
same status with the Arizona industrial development authority established
pursuant to title 35, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
E.All certificates,
licenses, registrations, permits and other indicia of qualification and
authority that were issued by the Arizona health facilities authority, the
Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international development
authority retain their validity for the duration of their terms of validity as
provided by law.
F.All equipment,
records, furnishings and other property, all data and investigative findings,
obligations and all appropriated monies that remain unexpended and unencumbered
on the effective date of this act of the Arizona health facilities authority,
the Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international development
authority are transferred to the Arizona industrial development authority
established pursuant to title 35, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised
Statutes.The director of the department of administration shall
determine and allocate the transfer, consistent with the provisions of this
act.
G.All personnel who are
under the state personnel system and employed by the Arizona health facilities
authority, the Arizona housing finance authority and the Arizona international
development authority are transferred to comparable positions and pay
classifications in the respective administrative units of the Arizona
industrial development authority established pursuant to title 35, chapter 5,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, on effective date of this act.
Sec.68.Exemption from rulemaking
For the purposes of this act, the governor's economic
opportunity office and the Arizona finance authority are exempt from the
rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, for
one year after the effective date of this act.
Sec.69.Effective
date
Sections 35902, 35903, 35904, 35905,
35907, 35909, 35910 and 413953, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, are effective from and after December 31,
2016.

