







REFERENCE TITLE: TPT exemptions; health sciences
  institutions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2669









Introduced by
Representative
  Livingston





AN ACT

Amending sections
42-5063 and 42-5074, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to transaction
privilege tax.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5063, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5063.Utilities classification; definitions
A.The utilities classification is comprised of the
business of:
1.Producing and furnishing or furnishing to
consumers natural or artificial gas and water.
2.Providing to retail electric customers ancillary
services, electric distribution services, electric generation services,
electric transmission services and other services related to providing
electricity.
B.The utilities classification does not include:
1.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services related to providing electricity, gas or water to a
person who resells the services.
2.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
3.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
4.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services that are related to providing electricity to a
retail electric customer who is located outside this state for use outside this
state if the electricity is delivered to a point of sale outside this state.
5.Sales or other transfers of renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power utility to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
6.The leasing or renting of space to make
attachments to utility poles as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in business under
this section.
(b)To a person that is engaged in business under
this section or section 425064 or that is a cable operator.
C.The tax base for the utilities classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business, but the
following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Revenues received by a municipally owned utility
in the form of fees charged to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Revenues received by any person or persons owning
a utility system in the form of reimbursement or contribution compensation for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
3.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales to:
(a)Qualifying hospitals as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
(c)A
qualifying health sciences educational institution as defined in section
42-5001.
4.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income that is derived from sales to a qualified environmental technology
manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 of a
utility product and that is used directly in environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing.This paragraph shall apply
for twenty full consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first
paper manufacturing machine is placed in service.In the case of a
qualified environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does
not manufacture paper, the time period shall begin with the date the first
manufacturing, processing or production equipment is placed in service.
5.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income attributable to transfers of electricity by any retail electric customer
owning a solar photovoltaic energy generating system to an electric
distribution system, if the electricity transferred is generated by the
customer's system.
6.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity or natural gas to a business that is principally
engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations and that uses at least fiftyone
percent of the
electricity or natural gas in the manufacturing or smelting
operations.This paragraph does not apply to gas transportation
services.For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Gas transportation services" means
the services of transporting natural gas to a natural gas customer or to a
natural gas distribution facility if the natural gas was purchased from a
supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing" means the performance
as a business of an integrated series of operations that places tangible
personal property in a form, composition or character different from that in
which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product with a
distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not include
processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity or
operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally engaged" means at least
fifty-one percent of the business is a manufacturing or smelting operation.
(d)"Smelting" means to melt or fuse a
metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying chemical change, usually to
separate the metal.
7.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity or natural gas to a business that operates an
international operations center in this state and that is certified by the
Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Ancillary services" means those
services so designated in federal energy regulatory commission order 888
adopted in 1996 that include the services necessary to support the transmission
of electricity from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of
the transmission system according to good utility practice.
2."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 9505.
3."Electric distribution service" means
distributing electricity to retail electric customers through the use of
electric distribution facilities.
4."Electric generation service" means
providing electricity for sale to retail electric customers but excluding
electric distribution or transmission services.
5."Electric transmission service" means
transmitting electricity to retail electric customers or to electric
distribution facilities so classified by the federal energy regulatory
commission or, to the extent permitted by law, so classified by the Arizona
corporation commission.
6."Other services" includes metering, meter
reading services, billing and collecting services.
7."Retail electric customer" means a
person who purchases electricity for that person's own use, including use in
that person's trade or business and not for resale, redistribution or
retransmission.
8."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Section 42-5074, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5074.Restaurant classification
A.The restaurant classification is comprised of the
business of operating restaurants, dining cars, dining rooms, lunchrooms, lunch
stands, soda fountains, catering services or similar establishments where
articles of food or drink are sold for consumption on or off the premises.
B.The tax base for the restaurant classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business. The
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the following shall be
deducted from the tax base:
1.Sales to a person engaged in business classified
under the restaurant classification if the items sold are to be resold in the
regular course of the business.
2.Sales by a congressionally chartered veterans
organization of food or drink prepared for consumption on the premises leased,
owned or maintained by the organization.
3.Sales by churches, fraternal benefit societies
and other nonprofit organizations, as these organizations are defined in the
federal internal revenue code (26 United States Code section 501), that do not
regularly engage or continue in the restaurant business for the purpose of fundraising.
4.Sales by a nonprofit organization that is exempt
from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal
revenue code if the organization is associated with a major league baseball
team or a national touring professional golfing association and no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
5.Sales at a rodeo featuring primarily farm and
ranch animals in this state by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from
taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8)
of the internal revenue code and no part of the organization's net earnings
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
6.Sales by any nonprofit organization organized and
operated exclusively for charitable purposes and recognized by the United
States internal revenue service under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
7.Sales to qualifying hospitals as defined in
section 425001.
8.Sales to a qualifying health care organization as
defined in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by
the organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
9.Sales to
a qualifying health sciences educational institution as defined in section
42-5001.
9.10.Sales of food,
drink and condiment for consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or
other institution under the jurisdiction of the state department of corrections,
the department of public safety, the department of juvenile corrections or a
county sheriff.
10.11.Sales of
articles of prepared or unprepared food, drink or condiment and accessory
tangible personal property to a school district or charter school if the
articles and accessory tangible personal property are served to persons for
consumption on the premises of a public school in the school district or
charter school during school hours.
11.12.Prepared food,
drink or condiment donated by a restaurant to a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code and that regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent on a continuing
basis at no cost.
12.13.Sales of
articles of food and drink at low or reduced prices to eligible elderly, disabled or homeless persons or persons with a disability by
a restaurant that contracts with the department of economic security and that
is approved by the food and nutrition services of the United States department
of agriculture pursuant to the supplemental nutrition assistance program
established by the food and nutrition act of 2008 (P.L. 110-246; 122 Stat.
1651; 7 United States Code sections 2011 through 2036a), if the purchases of
the articles of food and drink are made with the benefits issued pursuant to
the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
C.The tax imposed on the restaurant classification
pursuant to this section does not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income from tangible personal property sold to a commercial airline consisting
of food, beverages and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and
beverages, if those items are to be provided without additional charge to
passengers for consumption in flight. For the purposes of this subsection,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in intrastate,
interstate or foreign commerce.
D.The department shall separately account for
revenues collected under the restaurant classification for the purposes of
section 42-5029, subsection D, paragraph 4, subdivision (b).
E.For the purposes
of section 425032.01, the department shall separately account for
revenues collected under the restaurant classification from businesses
operating restaurants, dining rooms, lunchrooms, lunch stands, soda fountains,
catering services or similar establishments:
1.On the premises of a multipurpose facility that
is owned or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title 5,
chapter 8 for consumption on or off the premises.
2.At professional football contests that are held
in a stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents. END_STATUTE

