







REFERENCE TITLE: insurance; pharmacy benefits; audits;
  pricing







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2692









Introduced by
Representative
  Livingston





AN ACT

Amending title
20, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 25; relating to pharmacy
benefits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 20, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 25, to read:
CHAPTER 25
PHARMACY BENEFITS
ARTICLE 1.AUDITING
START_STATUTE20-3321.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Auditing
Entity" means any person, company, group or plan working on behalf of or
pursuant to a contract with an insurer, plan sponsor or pharmacy benefits
manager for the purposes of auditing pharmacy drug claims adjudicated by
pharmacies or pharmacists.
2."Clerical
error" means a minor error that meets all of the following criteria:
(a)Occurs in the keeping, recording
or transcribing of records or documents or in the handling of electronic or
hard copies of correspondence.
(b)Does not result in financial
harm to an entity.
(c)Does not involve dispensing an
incorrect dose, amount or type of medication or dispensing a prescription drug
to the wrong person.
3."Concurrent
daily review audit" means an audit that is conducted by an auditing
entity, that is in direct response to the adjudication of a prescription order
for the express purpose of therapeutic appropriateness and that may occur and
is resolved only at the time the prescription order is adjudicated.
4.
"Desktop audit" means an audit that is conducted by an auditing
entity at a location other than the location of the pharmacist or pharmacy.
Desktop audit includes an audit that is performed at the offices of the
auditing entity during which the pharmacist or pharmacy provides requested
documents for review by hard copy or by microfiche, disk or other electronic
media.
5."Fraud"
means knowingly or wilfully executing or attempting to execute a scheme in
connection with the delivery or payment for health care benefits, items or
services that uses false or misleading pretenses, representations or promises
to obtain any money or property owned by or under the custody or control of any
person.
6."In-pharmacy
audit" means an audit that is conducted by an auditing entity at the
physical business address of the pharmacy where the claim was adjudicated.
7."Insurer"
means a disability insurer, group disability insurer, blanket disability
insurer, health care services organization, hospital service corporation,
medical service corporation or hospital and medical service corporation.
8."Multisource
generic drug" means a covered outpatient prescription drug for which there
is at least one other drug product that is rated as therapeutically equivalent
under the United States food and drug administration's most recent publication
of approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations, that is
determined by the United States food and drug administration to be
pharmaceutically equivalent and bioequivalent and that is sold or marketed in
this state.
9."Pharmacist"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 321901.
10."Pharmacists
services" means products, goods or services provided as a part of the
practice of pharmacy to individuals who reside or who are employed in this
state.
11."Pharmacy"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 321901.
12."Pharmacy
benefits management" means any plan or program that pays for, reimburses,
covers the cost of or otherwise provides for pharmacists services to
individuals who reside or who are employed in this state.
13."Pharmacy
benefits manager" means an entity that performs pharmacy benefits
management.Pharmacy benefits manager includes both of the
following:
(a)A person or entity
acting for a pharmacy benefits manager in a contractual or employment
relationship in the performance of pharmacy benefits management for a covered
entity.
(b)Mail service pharmacy.
14."Plan
sponsor" means the employer, insurance company, union and health
maintenance organization or any other entity responsible for establishing,
maintaining or administering a health benefit plan on behalf of covered
individuals. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE20-3322.Audit procedures
A.The following procedures apply to
an audit conducted by an auditing entity:
1.When
conducting an in-pharmacy or desktop audit, except in cases of an audit of pharmacy records when fraud
or other intentional and wilful misrepresentation is evidenced by physical
review, review of claims data or statements or other investigative methods, an auditing entity shall:
(a)give a pharmacy at least
fourteen days' written notice via United States postal service, contracted mail
services or email before conducting an in-pharmacy audit and at least
seven days' written notice via United States postal service, contracted mail
services or e-mail before conducting a desktop audit.
(b)Not conduct an audit during the
first five days of the month unless the pharmacy otherwise consents.
(c)Provide the pharmacy a list of
items to be audited that provides for identification of prescription number or
numbers or date range that the auditing entity is seeking to audit. 
(d)Limit the audit to claims that
may not exceed two years from the earlier of the date that the claim was
submitted to or the date that the claim was adjudicated by the pharmacy
benefits manager. 
2.An
inpharmacy audit, desktop audit or concurrent daily review audit that
involves clinical or professional judgment shall be conducted by or in
consultation with a pharmacist licensed in the state of the audit or by the
Arizona state board of pharmacy.
3.The
pharmacy may use the records of a hospital, physician or other authorized
practitioner to validate the pharmacy records.The validated records
may be obtained via electronic methods, fax, phone or written prescription
orders and do not have to be the original hard copy prescription order.
4.Any
prescription that complies with Arizona state board of pharmacy requirements
may be used to validate claims in connection with prescriptions, refills or
changes in prescriptions.
5.Each
pharmacy shall be audited under the same standards and parameters as other
similarly situated pharmacies in this state.
B.When
conducting an inpharmacy audit, desktop audit or concurrent daily review
audit, An auditing entity shall comply with the following requirements:
1.The
auditing entity shall base a finding of overpayment or underpayment on the
actual overpayment or underpayment and not on a projection based on the number
of patients served who have similar diagnoses or on the number of similar
orders or refills for similar drugs.
2.Calculations
of overpayments may not include dispensing fees.
3.Interest
may not accrue during the audit period.
4.To
the extent that an audit results in the identification of any clerical errors
in a required document or record, the auditing entity may not recoup monies
from the pharmacy. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE20-3323.Audit reports
A.The
auditing entity must deliver via United States postal service, contracted mail services or e-mail a preliminary audit report to the pharmacy within
sixty days after the conclusion of the audit.
B.A
pharmacy is allowed at least thirty days after receipt of the preliminary audit
to provide documentation to address any discrepancy found in the audit.
C.Each
auditing entity conducting an audit shall establish and make available to
network pharmacies a written appeals process under which a pharmacy shall have
at least thirty days from the delivery of the preliminary and final audit
report to appeal an unfavorable audit report to the auditing
entity.If, following the appeal, the auditing entity finds that an
unfavorable audit report or any portion of the report is unsubstantiated, the
auditing entity shall dismiss the audit report or portion of the report without
the necessity of any further proceedings.
D.All
contracts between a pharmacy benefits manager and a network pharmacy or a pharmacy
benefits manager and a pharmacy's contracting representative shall include a
process to appeal, investigate and resolve disputes regarding preliminary and
final audit findings. If either party is not satisfied with the appeal, that
party may seek mediation or arbitration through a neutral third party in the
state in which the pharmacy is located.
E.The
auditing entity must deliver via United States postal service, contracted mail
services or e-mail a final audit report to the pharmacy within ninety days
after receipt of the preliminary audit report or final appeal, whichever is
later, and provide a copy of the final audit report, including the disclosure
of any money recouped in the audit, to the insurer.
F.No
chargebacks, recoupment or other penalties may be assessed until the appeal
process has been exhausted and the final audit report has been issued.
G.Unless
superseded by state or federal law, audit information may not be shared.
Auditors may have access only to previous audit reports on a particular
pharmacy conducted by that same auditing entity. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE20-3324.Maximum allowable cost; updates; notice
A.Multisource
generic drug pricing shall be updated every seven days and reimbursements shall
reflect price changes in the marketplace.
B.A
pharmacy benefits manager shall establish a reasonable process for the
notification of drug price updates to the network pharmacies and shall disclose
the drug price update in advance of using the updated drug prices for
reimbursement.
C.The site or delivery method to convey generic
pricing must enable the pharmacies to connect a claim to the correct drug price
at the appropriate point in time in order to validate the price. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Applicability
This act applies to contracts entered into, amended, extended
or renewed on or after December 31, 2016.

