







REFERENCE TITLE: peace officer employment; study
  committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2677









Introduced by
Representatives
  Rivero: Andrade, Boyer, Fann, Finchem, Gray, Lawrence, Livingston, Mitchell,
  Montenegro, Shope, Senator Lesko





AN ACT

establishing the
peace officer employment study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Peace officer employment study
committee; membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The peace officer
employment study committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.One member of the
house of representatives who is appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives and who is the chairperson.
2.One member of the
senate who is appointed by the president of the senate and who is the
vicechairperson.
3.Four members who
represent a law enforcement association, two of whom are are appointed by the
speaker of the house of representatives and two of whom are appointed by the
president of the senate.
4.Four members who are
peace officers and who are in a supervisory role, two of whom are appointed by
the speaker of the house of representatives and two of whom are appointed by
the president of the senate.
5.Two members who
represent the business community, one of whom is appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the president of
the senate.
6.Two members who
represent the faith community, one of whom is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the president of the
senate.
7.One public member
who is appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
B.The study committee
shall research and report on peace officer staffing levels and recruitment and
retention policies and practices and the impact these have on the rate of
attrition and public safety.
C.The study committee
may:
1.Request information,
data and reports from any state agency or political subdivision of this state.
If possible, information shall be provided electronically.
2.Hold hearings,
conduct fact-finding tours and take testimony from witnesses who may assist the
study committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
D.On the request of the
study committee, an agency of this state shall provide to the study committee
its services, equipment, documents, personnel and facilities to the extent
possible without cost to the study committee.
E.The legislature shall
provide staff and support services to the study committee.
F.The study committee
shall meet at the state capitol or at other places as the chairperson deems
necessary or convenient, and all meetings shall be open to the public.
G.Members of the study
committee are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes.
H.On or before December
31, 2016, the study committee shall submit a report regarding its findings and
recommendations to the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives
and the president of the senate and provide a copy of its report to the
secretary of state.
I.This section is repealed
from and after September 30, 2017.

