







REFERENCE TITLE: employers; ex-felons; income tax credits







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2680









Introduced by
Representatives
  Velasquez, Andrade: Espinoza, Fernandez, Rios





AN ACT

Relating to
income tax credits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Working opportunity income tax credit; employment of
qualified ex-felons; limitations; definitions
A.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2016 through December 31, 2019, and subject to the limitation
prescribed by subsection D of this section, a credit is allowed against the
taxes imposed by title 43, chapter 10 or 11, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
applicable, for qualified employers who employ, during the taxable year,
persons who are qualified ex-felons.
B.The amount of the credit under this section is
equal to:
1.Five percent of the first six thousand dollars in
wages paid to each employee who is a qualified ex-felon and who worked at least
one hundred twenty but less than four hundred hours during the taxable year.
2.Ten percent of the first six thousand dollars in
wages paid to each employee who is a qualified ex-felon and who worked at least
four hundred hours during the taxable year.
C.The department of revenue shall provide suitable
forms, with instructions, for taxpayers to claim a credit pursuant to this
section. The claim must be filed together with the taxpayer's income tax
return for the taxable year for which the credit is claimed.
D.The department of revenue shall allow the credits
under this section on a firstcome, firstserved basis, according
to the date the department receives the claim, and shall deny credits under
this section that exceed in the aggregate a total of two million dollars in any
fiscal year.
E.If the allowable credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under title 43, chapter 10 or 11, Arizona Revised Statutes, on
the claimant's income or if there are no taxes due under title 43, chapter 10
or 11, Arizona Revised Statutes, the amount of the credit not used to offset
taxes under title 43, chapter 10 or 11, Arizona Revised Statutes, may be
carried forward as a credit against tax liability for the next five consecutive
taxable years.
F.Co-owners of a business may each claim only the
pro rata share of the credit allowed under this section based on the ownership
interest.The total of the credits allowed all such owners may not
exceed the amount that would have been allowed a sole owner.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Internal revenue code" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 43-105, Arizona Revised Statutes.
2."Qualified employer" means a taxpayer
that, by employing qualified ex-felons during the taxable year, qualifies for
the federal work opportunity tax credit under section 51 of the internal
revenue code.
3."Qualified ex-felon" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 51 of the internal revenue code.
Sec.2.Purpose
Pursuant to section 43-223,
Arizona Revised Statutes, the purpose of section 1 of this act is to encourage
employers to provide employment opportunities to persons who have been released
from prison after being convicted of committing a felony.
Sec.3.Delayed repeal
This act is repealed from and after December 31, 2020.

