







REFERENCE TITLE: charter schools; preference; foster
  children







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2665









Introduced by
Representatives
  Allen J, Borrelli, Boyer, Thorpe, Senators Allen S, Bradley: Representatives
  Campbell, Carter, Coleman, Gray, Lawrence, Lovas, Mach, Norgaard, Otondo,
  Senators Lesko, Pancrazi





AN ACT

amending sections
15184 and 15816.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41,
chapter 1, article 1, arizona revised statutes, by adding section 41108;
appropriating monies; relating to charter schools.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-184, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-184.Charter schools; admissions requirements
A.A charter school shall enroll all eligible pupils
who submit a timely application, unless the number of applications exceeds the
capacity of a program, class, grade level or building.
B.A charter school shall give enrollment preference
to pupils returning to the charter school in the second or any subsequent year
of its operation and to
siblings of pupils already enrolled in the charter school.
C.A charter school that is sponsored by a school
district governing board shall give enrollment preference to eligible pupils
who reside within the boundaries of the school district where the charter
school is physically located.
d.a charter
school shall give enrollment preference to children who are in foster care or
meet the definition of unaccompanied youth prescribed in the mckinneyvento
homeless assistance act (42 united states code section 11434a).
D.e.A charter school
may give enrollment preference to and reserve capacity for pupils who either:
1.Are children, grandchildren or legal wards of any
of the following:
(a)Employees of the school.
(b)Employees of the charter holder.
(c)Members of the governing body of the school.
(d)Directors, officers, partners or board members
of the charter holder.
2.Attended another charter school or are the
siblings of that pupil if the charter school previously attended by the pupil
has the identical charter holder, board and governing board membership as the
enrolling charter school or is managed by the same educational management
organization, charter management organization or educational service provider
as determined by the charter authorizer.
E.f.If remaining
capacity is insufficient to enroll all pupils who submit a timely application,
the charter school shall select pupils through an equitable selection process
such as a lottery except that preference shall be given to siblings of a pupil
selected through an equitable selection process such as a lottery.
F.g.Except as
provided in subsections A through D e of this section, a charter
school shall not limit admission based on ethnicity, national origin, gender,
income level, disabling condition, proficiency in the English language or
athletic ability.
G.h.A charter school
may limit admission to pupils within a given age group or grade level.
H.i.A charter school
may provide instruction to pupils of a single gender with the approval of the
sponsor of the charter school. An existing charter school may amend its
charter to provide instruction to pupils of a single gender, and if approved by
the sponsor of the charter school, may provide instruction to pupils of a
single gender at the beginning of the next school year.
I.j.A charter school
shall admit pupils who reside in the attendance area of a school or who reside
in a school district that is under a court order of desegregation or that is a
party to an agreement with the United States department of education office for
civil rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial
discrimination unless notice is received from the resident school that the
admission would violate the court order or agreement. If a charter school
admits a pupil after notice is received that the admission would constitute
such a violation, the charter school is not allowed to include in its student
count the pupils wrongfully admitted.
J.k.A charter school
may refuse to admit any pupil who has been expelled from another educational
institution or who is in the process of being expelled from another educational
institution. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
15-816.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-816.01.Enrollment policies
A.School district
governing boards shall establish policies and shall implement an open
enrollment policy without charging tuition.Tuition may be charged
to nonresident pupils only if the tuition is authorized under section 15764,
subsection C, section 15797, subsection C, section 15823,
subsection A, section 15824, subsection A or section 15825 or if
two school districts have entered into a voluntary agreement for the payment of
tuition for certain pupils.These policies shall include admission
criteria, application procedures and transportation provisions.A school district shall give
enrollment preference to children who are in foster care.A
school district may give enrollment preference to and reserve capacity for
pupils who are children of persons who are employed by or at a school in the
school district. A copy of the district policies for open enrollment shall be
posted on the district's website and shall be available to the public on
request.
B.The governing board
of the district educating the pupil may provide transportation limited to no
more than twenty miles each way to and from the school of attendance or to and
from a pickup point on a regular transportation route or for the total miles
traveled each day to an adjacent district for eligible nonresident pupils who
meet the economic eligibility requirements established under the national
school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751
through 1785) for free or reduced price lunches.
C.The governing board
of the district educating the pupil shall provide transportation limited to no
more than twenty miles each way to and from the school of attendance or to and
from a pickup point on a regular transportation route or for the total miles
traveled each day to an adjacent district for nonresident pupils with
disabilities whose individualized education program specifies that
transportation is necessary for fulfillment of the program. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 41,
chapter 1, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
41-108, to read:
START_STATUTE41-108.Foster youth education success program; fund; report;
program termination
A.The foster youth education success program is
established in the office of the governor for the purpose of improving the
educational outcomes of children in this state's foster care system.
B.The foster youth education success fund is established
consisting of monies appropriated to the fund and monies received by the office
of the governor from any lawful public or private source for this
purpose.The office of the governor shall administer the fund.
Monies in the fund are CONTINUOUSLY appropriated. The office of the governor
may accept and spend local, state and federal monies and private grants, gifts,
contributions and devises to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
section.Monies in the fund do not revert to the state general fund.
C.The office of the governor shall establish policies
and procedures, selection criteria and minimum performance standards for
service providers that wish to participate in the program.
D.A service provider that is selected to participate in
the program shall:
1.contract with an organization that is exempt from
federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that provides
the following programmatic components:
(a)A
partnership with local education agencies, child welfare agencies and judicial
agencies to implement a continuous cycle of datadriven interventions for
children in foster care.
(b)Identification
and support of an education champion for children in foster care who is
informed of rights and responsibilities and paired with an education coach to
increase capacity to support educational success for children in foster care.
(c)Development
and monitoring of an education team, which may include education liaisons, students,
social workers, school staff, caregivers, courtappointed special
advocates, coaches, mentors or other community members.
(d)A
Customized education plan for each child in foster care that is based on
individual strengths and needs and that uses a research-based tool.
2.Submit an annual report on or before December 15 to
the Governor, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives that includes an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
program, including demographic information and academic outcomes. The service
provider shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
E.The program established by this section ends on July
1, 2026 pursuant to section 41-3102. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Appropriations; office of the governor; youth education
success fund; matching monies; exemption 
A.The sum of $1,000,000
is appropriated from the state general fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the
office of the governor for deposit in the youth education success fund
established by section 41108, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this
act, for the purposes of this act.
B.In addition to the
monies appropriated in subsection A of this section, the sum of $500,000 is appropriated
from the state general fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the office of the
governor for deposit in the youth education success fund established by section
41108, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, to be spent when
matching amounts, including matching amounts of less than $500,000, from
sources other than this state of other public monies, gifts, grants and
donations are collected by the office of the governor and deposited in the
fund.
C.Monies from public
sources other than this state, gifts, grants and donations may be spent by the
office of the governor as they are collected, but an accounting shall be made
by the office of the governor to the joint legislative budget committee to
determine qualification for the state match under subsection B of this section.
D.The appropriations
made in subsections A and B of this section are exempt from the provisions of
section 35-190, Arizona Revised Statutes, relating to lapsing of
appropriations.

