







REFERENCE TITLE: behavioral health services; dependent
  children 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2654









Introduced by
Representatives
  McCune Davis, Benally, Bowers, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Mendez, Otondo, Plumlee,
  Rios, Velasquez, Senator Bradley: Representatives Alston, Andrade, Fernandez,
  Friese, Kopec, Mach, Meyer





AN ACT

amending title 8,
chapter 4, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding sections 8-512.01 and
8512.02; relating to child welfare.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 8, chapter 4, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 8-512.01 and 8512.02,
to read:
START_STATUTE8-512.01.Behavioral health services; children in out-of-home
placement; requirements; definitions
A.For any
child who is in the legal custody of the department and who enters out-of-home
placement:
1. The department
shall submit a completed referral to the regional behavioral health authority
within twenty-four hours after the child enters out-of-home placement for an
assessment.
2.The
out-of-home placement may contact the regional behavioral health authority for
an assessment of the child entering care.
3.The
regional behavioral health authority shall dispatch an assessment team within
seventytwo hours after being notified that the child has entered care in
an out-of-home placement or within two hours after being notified if the child
has immediate needs.
4.The
regional behavioral health authority shall provide an initial evaluation of the
child within seven calendar days after a referral or request for services.
5.The first
behavioral health service appointment shall be provided within twentyone
calendar days after the initial evaluation.
6.If the
child and family team determines that a child needs behavioral health services
and that the services are not available within thirty days due to a waiting
list, the Arizona health care cost containment system administration shall
grant a casespecific agreement with an outofnetwork
provider.
7.If a
child is hospitalized and awaiting stepdown care in an outof-home
placement, the regional behavioral health authority shall approve and provide
appropriate care to the child within seventytwo hours after notification
from the hospital.
8.If a
child lives within fifteen miles of a county border, the child may receive
services from the regional behavioral health authority in either county.
9.If a
foster child is moved into another county because of the child's out-of-home
placement, the child may receive services in either county.
10.If a
child lives more than fortyfive miles from the nearest behavioral health
clinic or provider, inhome services shall be offered when deemed
appropriate by the child and family team, except for treatments that need to be
provided in a clinic setting, including medication management.
11.If the
child is in need of behavioral health services, the child shall be assigned a
therapist who has at least a master's degree and appropriate specialized
training for that child.Except in cases of traumaspecific
counseling, a therapist shall consider all drug free treatment options when
appropriate.
B.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Out-of-home
placement" includes shelters, receiving homes, kinship foster care, family
foster care homes and group homes.
2."Stepdown
care" includes stabilization units, residential treatment centers,
therapeutic group homes and therapeutic foster homes.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE8-512.02.Health care services; children leaving the custody of the
department
Notwithstanding any law
to the contrary, a child who was in the custody of the department pursuant to
this chapter may continue receiving services pursuant to section 8512 or
title 36, chapter 29, article 1 for a period of six months until the child's
eligibility is determined under title 36, chapter 29, article 1.END_STATUTE

