







REFERENCE TITLE: climate change; study committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2684









Introduced by
Representative
  Plumlee, Senator Sherwood





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING the
joint legislative study committee on Arizona climate change.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Joint legislative study committee on Arizona climate
change; membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The joint legislative study committee on Arizona
climate change is established consisting of the following members:
1.One member of the house of representatives who is
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
2.One member of the house of representatives who is
appointed by the minority leader of the house of representatives.
3.One member of the senate who is appointed by the
president of the senate.
4.One member of the senate who is appointed by the
minority leader of the senate.
5.One tenured faculty member from Arizona State
University, one tenured faculty member from the University of Arizona and one
tenured faculty member from Northern Arizona University, each of whom has
research experience in climate science or a related field and who is appointed
by the president of the university.
B.The members of the study committee shall select
from among its membership a chairperson and a vice chairperson who are members
of different political parties.
C.The study committee shall:
1.Provide for the immediate measurement of the
current climate in this state and research both the recent and historical
information on the climate in this state.
2.Use the information described in paragraph 1 of
this subsection to develop predictions regarding the future climate of this
state.
3.Develop predictions regarding the likely effects
of changes in climate on this state's business, industry, commerce and economic
development.
4.Make recommendations regarding legislative and
other policy changes to address the likely effects of changes in climate in
this state.
5.Submit a report of the study committee's findings
and recommendations on or before December 15, 2016 to the governor, the
president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives and
provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
D.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2016.

