







REFERENCE TITLE: erroneous convictions; civil action







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2639









Introduced by
Representative
  Saldate





AN ACT

Amending title
31, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 6; relating to erroneous
convictions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
31, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 6, to read:
CHAPTER 6
Compensation for erroneous convictions
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE31-651.Erroneous convictions; damages; definition
A.A person who has been erroneously convicted may apply
for compensation pursuant to this section. For the purposes of this section,
an erroneous conviction may occur whether or not this state, any political
subdivision of this state or any employee of this state or a political
subdivision of this state engaged in conduct that purposefully, recklessly or
negligently led to the erroneous conviction.
B.The person who claims to have been erroneously
convicted and who is seeking compensation has the burden of proving the
erroneous conviction. On motion from the person or on the court's own motion,
The court having jurisdiction shall determine by clear and convincing evidence
whether the person committed the offense for which the person was convicted and
sentenced, including any lesser included offense. If the court finds that the
person did not commit the offense for which the person was convicted, the court
shall enter a finding declaring the person to be erroneously convicted and
shall enter a judgment for damages against the agency that prosecuted the
person. For the purposes of this subsection, a court has jurisdiction if:
1.The court is the court that issues the order
nullifying the conviction and sentence of the erroneously convicted person.
2.The person was released from custody other than by
judicial order and the court is the superior court in the county in which the
person was convicted.
C.If the court awards damages pursuant to this section,
the court may award the following damages:
1.Any fines, fees and costs that were imposed on and
paid by or on behalf of the erroneously convicted person in connection with the
erroneously imposed conviction and sentence.
2.Any attorney fees that were incurred in the defense of
the erroneously convicted person, including all legal proceedings leading to
and reasonably necessitated by the erroneously imposed conviction and sentence.
3.Any special damages that were caused by the person's
erroneous conviction for lost wages or other earned income, lost real and
personal property and forfeitures and medical expenses.
D.The court may not offset an award of damages by any
expenses incurred by this state or any political subdivision of this state in
connection with the arrest, prosecution and imprisonment of the erroneously
convicted person, including expenses for food, clothing, shelter and medical
care while in custody.
E.The court may order structured payments of the amount
awarded pursuant to subsection C of this section.
F.Any damages that are awarded pursuant to this section
shall be paid by the agency that prosecuted the erroneously convicted person.
G.A person who is awarded damages pursuant to this
section is barred from pursuing any further state law claims resulting from or
related to the erroneous conviction.
H.Any findings of fact that are made by a court pursuant
to this section are subject to appellate review.
I.For the purposes of this section, "erroneously
convicted person" means a person to whom all of the following apply:
1.The person was convicted of a misdemeanor or felony
offense.
2.The person was sentenced to a term of incarceration.
3.The person's conviction was vacated, dismissed,
reversed or otherwise nullified and the person is not subject to further
criminal proceedings based on the events alleged in the underlying nullified
charges.
4.The person is found by the court to have not committed
the charged offense or any lesser included offense. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE31-652.Commission of inquiry; report
A.If a court makes a finding of erroneous conviction,
the court shall forward a copy of the judgment to the supreme court. The
supreme court shall appoint one or more persons to serve as an ad hoc
commission of inquiry or shall refer the matter to a standing commission of
inquiry to investigate the causes of the erroneous conviction. All law
enforcement agencies and county attorneys shall cooperate fully with the
investigation.
B.After completion of its investigation, the commission
shall submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the supreme
court. The report is a public record. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Applicability
A person who
was convicted before the effective date of this act and who meets the
eligibility requirements under section 31-651, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, may file a civil action in the superior court for relief.
The action shall be filed within two years after the effective date of this
act.
Sec.3.Purpose
The purpose of this act is to
restore innocent persons who have been erroneously convicted and punished, as
nearly as is reasonably possible, to the conditions and circumstances they
enjoyed before being erroneously convicted.

