







REFERENCE TITLE: K-3 reading program; administration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2653









Introduced by
Representatives
  Norgaard, Boyer: Ackerley, Coleman, Lawrence, Mitchell





AN ACT

amending section
15211, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the K3 Reading
program.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-211, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-211.K-3 reading program; receipt and use of monies; additional
funding; program termination
A.The state
board of education, in collaboration with the department of
education, shall establish administer a K3 reading program to
improve the reading proficiency of pupils in kindergarten programs and grades
one, two and three in the public schools of this state.
B.On or
before October 1, 2012, each
school district and charter school that is assigned a letter grade of C, D or F
pursuant to section 15241, subsection H or that has more than ten
percent of its pupils in grade three falling below the appropriate proficiency
level, as established by the state board of education, on the English language
arts portion of the Arizona measurement of educational readiness to inform
teaching test, or a successor test, shall receive monies generated by the K3
reading support level weight established in section 15943. In order to
receive these monies generated by the K3 reading support level weight, each
eligible school district
and charter school shall submit to the state
board department of
education a plan for improving the reading proficiency of its pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one, two and three. The plan shall include
baseline data on the reading proficiency of its pupils in kindergarten programs
and grades one, two and three and a budget for spending monies from both the K3
support level weight and the K3 reading support level weight established
in section 15943. Beginning in
fiscal year 20132014 and each fiscal year thereafter, Each
school district and charter school shall annually submit to the state board department of education on or before October 1
an updated K3 reading program plan that includes data on program
expenditures and results, except that
beginning in fiscal year 2016-2017, a school district or charter school that is
assigned a letter grade of A or B pursuant to section 15-241 shall submit this
plan only in odd-numbered years.
C.School districts and charter schools shall use
monies generated by the K3 reading support level weight established in
section 15943 only on reading programs for pupils in kindergarten
programs and grades one, two and three with particular emphasis on pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one and two.
D.Each school district and charter school that is assigned a letter grade of C, D or F pursuant
to section 15241, subsection H or that has more than ten per cent of its
pupils in grade three reading far below the third grade level according to the
reading portion of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a
successor test, eligible
pursuant to subsection B of this section shall receive monies
generated by the K3 reading support level weight established in section
15943 only after the K3 reading program plan of the school
district or charter school has been reviewed
and recommended for approval by the department of education and approved
by the state board of education.
E.Pupils in a charter school that is in its first
year of operation and that is sponsored by the state board of education, the
state board for charter schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents, a community college district or a group of community
college districts are eligible for the K-3 reading support level weight.
F.The department of education shall solicit gifts,
grants and donations from any lawful public or private source in order to
provide additional funding for the K3 reading program.
G.The state
board of education may establish rules and policies for the K3 reading
program, including:
1.The
proper use of monies in accordance with subsection C of this section.
2.The
distribution of monies by the department of education in accordance with
subsection B of this section.
3.The
compliance of reading proficiency plans submitted pursuant to subsection B of
this section with section 15-704.
G.H.The program
established by this section ends on July 1, 2022 pursuant to section 413102.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

