







REFERENCE TITLE: mental health; injunction; firearm
  possession







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2611









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Benally, Fernandez, Gonzales, Hale, Mach, Velasquez: Kopec, Mendez





AN ACT

amending title
12, chapter 10, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 121811;
relating to injunctions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 12, chapter 10, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 12-1811, to read:
START_STATUTE12-1811.Mental health injunction against firearm possession;
petition; grounds; enforcement; definition
A.An
immediate family member or a peace officer may file a verified petition with a
magistrate, justice of the peace or superior court judge for an injunction that
prohibits a person from possessing, controlling, owning or receiving a
firearm. Notwithstanding the location of the person, any court may issue or
enforce a mental health injunction against firearm possession.
B.A mental
health injunction against firearm possession may not be granted unless the
party who requests the injunction files a written verified petition for the
injunction.
C.The
petition shall state all of the following:
1.The name
of the petitioner. The petitioner's address shall be disclosed to the court for
purposes of service. If the address of the petitioner is unknown to the
defendant, the petitioner may request that the address be protected. On the
petitioner's request, the address may not be listed on the petition. Whether
the court issues a mental health injunction against firearm possession, the
protected address shall be maintained in a separate document or automated
database and is not subject to release or disclosure by the court or any form
of public access except as ordered by the court.
2.The name
and address of the defendant.
3.The
number, types and locations of any firearms believed to be controlled or
possessed by the defendant.
4.Whether
the defendant:
(a)Suffers from a mental illness or
disorder.
(b)Directed any recent threats or
acts of violence toward another.
(c)Directed any recent threats or
acts of violence toward himself or herself.
(d)Was arrested for or convicted of
a violent or dangerous offense or an offense involving domestic violence.
(e)Acquired firearms or other
deadly weapons within the previous six months.
(f)Unlawfully and recklessly used,
displayed or brandished a firearm.
D.A fee may
not be charged for filing a petition under this section. Fees for service of
process may be deferred or waived under any rule or law applicable to civil
actions. The court shall advise the petitioner that the petitioner may be
eligible for the deferral or waiver of these fees at the time the petitioner
files a petition. The court may not require the petitioner to perform
community restitution as a condition of the waiver or deferral of fees for
service of process. A law enforcement agency or constable may not require the
advance payment of fees for service of process of a mental health injunction
against firearm possession. If the court does not waive the fees, the serving
agency may assess the actual fees against the petitioner. The petitioner may
request that an injunction that is issued by a municipal court be served by the
police agency for that city or town if the defendant can be served within the city
or town. If the defendant cannot be served within the city or town, the police
agency in the city or town in which the defendant can be served may serve the
injunction. The petitioner may request that an injunction that is issued by a
justice of the peace shall be served by the constable for that jurisdiction if
the defendant can be served within the jurisdiction. If the defendant cannot
be served within that jurisdiction, the constable in the jurisdiction in which
the defendant can be served shall serve the injunction. The petitioner may
request that an injunction that is issued by a superior court judge or
commissioner be served by the sheriff of the county. If the defendant cannot
be served within that jurisdiction, the sheriff in the jurisdiction in which
the defendant can be served may serve the injunction. The court shall provide,
without charge, forms to assist parties without counsel.
E.The court
shall review the petition, any other pleadings on file and any evidence offered
by the petitioner, including any threats of harm to the petitioner or others by
electronic contact or communication, to determine whether it should issue the
injunction requested without a further hearing. Rules 65(a)(1) and 65(e) of the Arizona rules of civil procedure do not apply to
injunctions that are requested pursuant to this section. If the court finds
reasonable evidence that the defendant poses a significant danger of personal
injury to themselves or another person by possessing, controlling, owning or
receiving a firearm if good cause exists to believe that a mental health
injunction against firearm possession is necessary to prevent personal injury
from occurring to the defendant or another person, because less restrictive
alternatives either have been tried and found to be ineffective or are
inadequate or inappropriate for the circumstances of the defendant, if the
injunction is not granted before the defendant or the defendant's attorney can
be heard in opposition and if the court finds reasons supporting the
petitioner's claim that notice should not be given, the court shall issue an
injunction as provided for in subsection F of this section. If the court
denies the requested relief, it may schedule a further hearing within ten days
after the denial with reasonable notice to the defendant. 
F.If the
court finds that there is clear and convincing evidence to issue a mental
health injunction against firearm possession the court shall issue an
injunction that prohibits the defendant from possessing, controlling, owning or
receiving a firearm.
G.At any
time during the period that the injunction is in effect the defendant is
entitled to one hearing on written request. A fee may not be charged for
requesting a hearing. A hearing that is requested by the defendant must be
held within ten days after the date requested unless the court finds compelling
reasons to continue the hearing. The hearing must be held at the earliest
possible time. An ex parte injunction that is issued under this section shall
state on its face that the defendant is entitled to one hearing on written
request and shall include the name and address of the judicial office where the
request may be filed. After the hearing, the court may modify, quash or
continue the mental health injunction against firearm possession.
H.A mental
health injunction against firearm possession issued pursuant to this section
must include all of the following:
1.A
statement of the grounds supporting the issuance of the injunction.
2.The
address of the superior court for the county in which the enjoined party
resides.
3.The
following statement:
To the restrained
person: This injunction will last for one year from the date that you are
served. If you have not done so already, you must immediately surrender to the
sheriff in your county all firearms that you own, control or possess. You may
not own, purchase or have in your possession or control any firearms while this
injunction is in effect. You have the right to request a hearing to terminate
this injunction at any time during its effective period. You may seek the
advice of an attorney as to any matter connected with the injunction.
Warning:This
is an official court order. If you disobey this order, you may be arrested and
prosecuted for the crime of interfering with judicial proceedings and any other
crime you may have committed in disobeying this order.
I.If the
injunction is served by a peace officer, the peace officer shall request that
the defendant surrender each firearm described in the petition. If the
defendant refuses, the peace officer shall notify the court and request a
search warrant for the location of the firearm that is described in the
petition. a peace officer shall transfer a firearm that is recovered to the
sheriff in the jurisdiction in which the defendant was served.
J.Within
twentyfour hours after the injunction is issued the petition and
injunction shall be provided to the sheriff of the county in which the order
was issued, along with proof of service, if any. If the defendant has been
served, the sheriff shall determine if the defendant has surrendered the
firearm described in the petition. If the firearm has not been surrendered,
the sheriff shall notify the court and request a search warrant for the
location of the firearm that is described in the petition.
K.Whether
the firearm is surrendered or recovered by a search warrant, the sheriff shall
provide the defendant with a receipt for each firearm, including a description
of the firearm and the serial number. The sheriff shall file a copy of the
receipt with the court.
L.A copy of
the petition and the injunction shall be served on the defendant within one
year after the date the injunction is signed. An injunction that is not served
on the defendant within one year expires. The injunction is effective on
service of a copy of the injunction and petition and expires one year after
service on the defendant. A modified injunction is effective on service and
expires one year after service of the initial injunction and petition.
M.On the
expiration or termination of a mental health injunction against firearm
possession, the defendant may apply to the sheriff for the return of all
firearms surrendered or recovered. Unless the defendant is a prohibited
possessor under state or federal law, or a verified petition for renewal has
been filed, all firearms shall be returned to the defendant.
N.A family
member or peace officer may file a verified petition for renewal of a mental
health injunction against firearm possession. Proceedings for a renewal of a
mental health injunction against firearm possession shall be conducted pursuant
to subsections C, D, E, and F of this section.
O.A
supplemental information form that is used by the court or a law enforcement
agency solely for service of process on the defendant and that contains
information provided by the petitioner is confidential.
P.Each
affidavit, acceptance or return of service shall be promptly filed with the
clerk of the issuing court. This filing shall be completed in person, shall be
made by fax or electronically, or shall be postmarked, if sent by mail, not
later than the end of the seventh court business day after the date of
service. If the filing is made by fax or electronically, the original affidavit,
acceptance or return of service shall be promptly filed with the court. Within
twenty-four hours after the affidavit, acceptance or return of service has been
filed, excluding weekends and holidays, the court from which the injunction or
any modified injunction was issued shall forward to the sheriff in the county
in which the court is located a copy of the injunction and a copy of the
affidavit or certificate of service of process or acceptance of service. On
receiving these copies, the sheriff shall register the mental health injunction
against firearm ownership. Registration of an injunction means that a copy of
the injunction and a copy of the affidavit or certificate of service of process
or acceptance of service have been received by the sheriff's office. The
sheriff shall maintain a central repository for injunctions so that the
existence and validity of the injunction can be easily verified. The
effectiveness of the injunction does not depend on the injunction's
registration, and for enforcement purposes a copy of an injunction, whether or
not registered, is presumed to be a valid existing order of the court for a
period of one year after the date of service of the injunction on the
defendant.
Q.A peace
officer, with or without a warrant, may arrest a person if the peace officer
has probable cause to believe that the person has violated section 13-2810 by
disobeying or resisting an injunction that is issued in any jurisdiction in
this state pursuant to this section, whether or not the violation occurred in
the presence of the officer. A criminal violation of an injunction issued
pursuant to this section shall be referred to an appropriate law enforcement
agency. The law enforcement agency shall request that a prosecutorial agency
file the appropriate charges. A violation of a mental health injunction
against firearm possession may not be adjudicated by a municipal or justice
court unless a complaint has been filed or other legal process has been
requested by the prosecuting agency. The provisions for release under section
13-3883, subsection A, paragraph 4 and section 13-3903 do not apply to an
arrest made pursuant to this section.
R.A person
who is arrested pursuant to subsection Q of this section may be released from
custody in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or any other
applicable statute. An order for release, with or without an appearance bond,
shall include pretrial release conditions that are necessary for the protection
of the person and the public and may provide for any additional conditions that
the court deems appropriate including participation in mental health
screenings, evaluation or treatment. The agency with custody of the person
shall make reasonable efforts to contact the petitioner, if known to the
custodial agency.
S.The
remedies provided in this section for enforcement of the orders of the court
are in addition to any other civil and criminal remedies available.
T.A peace
officer who makes an arrest or conducts a search pursuant to this section is
not civilly or criminally liable for the arrest if the officer acts on probable
cause and without malice.
U.Mental
health injunction against firearm possession orders, including the expiration
or termination of the orders, shall be forwarded to the department of public
safety.
V.For the
purposes of this section, "immediate family member" means a spouse,
parent, child, guardian or sibling or any other person who regularly resides in
the person's household or resided in the person's household within the past six
months. END_STATUTE

