







REFERENCE TITLE: regulatory boards; licensing; revisions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2613









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Allen J, Weninger, Senators Worsley, Yee: Representatives Lawrence,
  Livingston, Norgaard, Rivero, Shope, Senators Begay, Farnsworth D





AN ACT

amending sections
3-449, 3-466, 3-492, 3-496, 3-521, 15341, 203151, 27102,
28411, 28-7361, 32-101, 32-102, 32-103, 32112, 32122,
32-122.01, 32142 and 32143, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
title 32, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
32-153; amending sections 321301, 32-1309, 32-1334 and 32-1394, Arizona
Revised Statutes; repealing sections 32-1394.01 and 32-1394.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 321395, 32-1396.01, 32-1399, 321921
and 322352, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 32-2372, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending sections 32-2373, 32-2374, 32-2391, 323101,
323201, 323218 and 32-4101, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
sections 32-4102, 32-4103 and 32-4104, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title
32, chapter 41, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section
32-4102; repealing section 324105, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
title 32, chapter 41, articles 2 and 3, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 34-101, 36601.01, 41619.51, 411092, 41-1758,
41-1758.01, 41-2503 and 41-2571, arizona revised statutes; repealing section 413020.07,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 425075, 45-454, 45596
and 49-1052, Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to
regulatory licensing.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 3-449, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-449.Annual licensing; fees; application; penalty
A.No
A person shall may
not transact business as a citrus fruit dealer, packer or shipper without first obtaining a
license as provided in this article. The license expires on August 1 of each
year and is renewable annually.The license fee shall be determined
according to the annual gross sales based on the dealer's or shipper's previous
fiscal year as follows:
1.If the annual gross sales are five hundred
thousand dollars or more, the annual fee is four hundred fifty dollars.
2.If the annual gross sales are between two hundred
thousand dollars and five hundred thousand dollars, the annual fee is three
hundred dollars.
3.If the annual gross sales are two hundred
thousand dollars or less, the annual fee is one hundred fifty dollars.
4.If the person was not in business the previous
fiscal year, the annual fee is one hundred fifty dollars.
B.The
application for a packer license shall be filed with the supervisor and be
accompanied by an annual license fee of one hundred fifty dollars.
C.B.If a
person engages in business in more than one category as a dealer, or shipper
or packer, the license
designation shall be based on the category in which most of the licensee's
business is conducted.
D.C.The
license fees collected by the supervisor shall be paid into the citrus, fruit
and vegetable trust fund.
E.D.The
application for a dealer, or shipper or packer license shall contain the following
information:
1.The full name of the person applying for the
license.
2.Whether the applicant is an individual,
partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust or cooperative association
and the full name of each member of the partnership or firm, the full name of
each officer and director of the association or corporation or the full name of
each trustee.
3.The principal business address of the applicant
in this state and elsewhere and the address where the applicant conducts the
described business.
4.The name of the statutory agent in this state for
service of legal notice.
5.The category of license for which the applicant
is applying.
6.A statement of the facts, signed under penalty of
perjury, entitling the applicant to a license under the applicable category and
stating whether the applicant has ever had any license to handle citrus, fruit
or vegetables in any state denied, suspended or revoked.
7.If the applicant acts as a commission merchant, a
schedule of commissions and charges for services, which may not be altered
during the term of the license except by written agreement between the parties
involved.
F.E.The
supervisor shall issue to the applicant a license to conduct the business
described for a period of one year unless it is revoked for cause.
G.F.An
applicant who tenders a renewal application for a license that is received by
the supervisor after August 15 shall pay a penalty of twentyfive
dollars.An applicant who tenders a renewal application for a
license that is received after September 1 shall pay a penalty of fifty
dollars. All penalties shall be deposited in the citrus, fruit and vegetable
trust fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-466, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-466.Civil penalties; hearing
A.A person is subject to a civil penalty of not
more than five hundred dollars,
if the person does either of the following:
1.Acts as a dealer, or
shipper or packer without a
valid license.
2.Knowingly falsifies or causes to be falsified
information in a record intended to show proof of ownership.
B.A person shall be subject to a civil penalty of
not more than three hundred dollars,
if the person does any of the following:
1.Makes a written or oral false, deceptive or
misleading representation or assertion concerning the quality, size, maturity
or condition of citrus fruit.
2.Alters, removes or destroys a warning notice from
a lot or part of a lot to which it was affixed except on written authorization
of an inspector, the supervisor or the director or by court order.
3.Alters a notice of noncompliance, notice of compliance
or notice of disposal that is issued by an inspector.
4.Refuses to submit any container or lot of citrus
fruit governed pursuant to this article to an inspection of a representative
sample or to refuse to stop and permit inspection of a representative sample of
any commercial vehicle containing citrus fruit governed pursuant to this
article.
C.A commission merchant is subject to a civil
penalty of not more than five hundred dollars, if the commission merchant does any of
the following:
1.Knowingly makes a false or misleading statement
as to the condition of any citrus fruit.
2.Makes a fraudulent charge or return for handling
or selling citrus fruit or for rendering any service in connection with
handling or selling citrus fruit.
3.Reconsigns a consignment to receive, collect or
charge more than one commission without the consent of the consignor.
4.Sells citrus fruit at less than market price to a
person with whom the consignment merchant has a direct or indirect financial
connection.
5.Makes a sale and directly or indirectly receives
a portion of the purchase price other than the commission specified in the
contract.
D.A person who is charged with violating this
article or rules adopted pursuant to this article may request a hearing
pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
E.Civil penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be deposited in the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-492, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-492.Licensing dealers and shippers; application; fees; penalty
A.No
A person shall may
not act as a dealer or shipper without first obtaining a license
as provided in this article.Application for the license shall be
filed with the supervisor and accompanied by a license fee determined according
to the annual gross sales based on the dealer's or shipper's previous fiscal
year as follows:
1.If the annual gross sales are five hundred
thousand dollars or more, the annual fee is five hundred dollars.
2.If the annual gross sales are between two hundred
thousand dollars and five hundred thousand dollars, the annual fee is three
hundred fifty dollars.
3.If the annual gross sales are two hundred
thousand dollars or less, the annual fee is two hundred dollars.
4.If the person was not in business the previous
fiscal year, the annual fee is two hundred dollars.
B.A person
may not act as a packer without first obtaining a license as provided in this
article.The application for a packer license shall be filed with
the supervisor and accompanied by an annual license fee of two hundred dollars.
C.B.If a
person engages in business in more than one category as a dealer, or
shipper or packer, the
license designation shall be based on the category in which most of the
licensee's business is conducted.
D.C.The
monies received as license fees under this section shall be paid into the
citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund. The license shall expire on September
1 of each year and is renewable annually.
E.D.The
application for a dealer, or shipper or packer license shall contain the following
information:
1.The full name of the person applying for the
license.
2.Whether the applicant is an individual,
partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust or cooperative association
and the full name of each member of the partnership or firm, the full name of
each officer and director of the association or corporation or the full name of
each trustee.
3.The principal business address of the applicant
in this state and elsewhere and the address where the applicant conducts the
described business.
4.The name of the statutory agent in this state for
service of legal notice.
5.The category of license for which the applicant
is applying.
6.A statement of the facts, signed under penalty of
perjury, entitling the applicant to a license under the applicable category and
stating whether the applicant has ever had any license to handle citrus, fruit
or vegetables in any state denied, suspended or revoked.
7.If the applicant acts as a commission merchant, a
schedule of commissions and charges for services, which may not be altered
during the term of the license except by written agreement between the parties
involved.
F.E.The
supervisor shall issue to the applicant a license to conduct the business
described for a period of one year unless it is revoked for cause. 
G.F.An
applicant who tenders a renewal application for a license that is received by
the supervisor after September 15 shall pay a penalty of twentyfive
dollars.An applicant who tenders a renewal application for a
license that is received after October 1 shall pay a penalty of fifty dollars.
All penalties shall be deposited in the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 3-496, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-496.List of licensees; display of license
A.The supervisor may publish a pamphlet containing
a list of all licensed dealers, and shippers and packers and the rules pertaining to the
enforcement of this article.
B.Each licensed dealer, and
shipper and packer shall
keep the license in his the dealer's or shipper's office
or at his the dealer's or shipper's principal place of
business. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 3-521, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-521.Civil penalties; hearing
A.A person is subject to a civil penalty of not
more than five hundred dollars,
if the person does either of the following:
1.Acts as a dealer, or shipper
or packer without a valid
license.
2.Knowingly falsifies or causes to be falsified
information in a record intended to show proof of ownership.
B.A person shall be subject to a civil penalty of
not more than three hundred dollars,
if the person does any of the following:
1.Makes a written or oral false, deceptive or
misleading representation or assertion concerning the quality, size, maturity
or condition of fruit or vegetables.
2.Alters, removes or destroys a warning notice from
a lot or part of a lot to which it was affixed except on written authorization
of an inspector, the supervisor or the director or by court order.
3.Alters a notice of noncompliance, notice of
compliance or notice of disposal that is issued by an inspector.
4.Refuses to submit any container or lot of fruit
or vegetables governed by this article to an inspection of a representative
sample or refuses to stop and permit inspection of a representative sample of
any commercial vehicle containing fruit and vegetables governed by this
article.
C.A commission merchant is subject to a civil
penalty of not more than five hundred dollars, if the commission merchant does any of
the following:
1.Knowingly makes a false or misleading statement
as to the condition of any fruit or vegetable.
2.Makes a fraudulent charge or return for handling
or selling a fruit or vegetable or for rendering any service in connection with
handling or selling a fruit or vegetable.
3.Reconsigns a consignment to receive, collect or
charge more than one commission without the consent of the consignor.
4.Sells a fruit or vegetable at less than market
price to a person with whom the consignment merchant has a direct or indirect
financial connection.
5.Makes a sale and directly or indirectly receives
a portion of the purchase price other than the commission specified in the
contract.
D.A person who is charged with violating this
article or rules adopted pursuant to this article may request a hearing before
an administrative law judge pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article
10.The decision of the administrative law judge is subject to
review by the director as provided by title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
E.Civil penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be deposited in the citrus, fruit and vegetable trust fund.
Sec.6.Section 15-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-341.General powers and duties; immunity; delegation
A.The governing board shall:
1.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures for
the governance of the schools, not inconsistent with law or rules prescribed by
the state board of education.
2.Exclude from schools all books, publications,
papers or audiovisual materials of a sectarian, partisan or denominational
character.This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the
elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
3.Manage and control the school property within its
district.
4.Acquire school furniture, apparatus, equipment,
library books and supplies for the use of the schools.
5.Prescribe the curricula and criteria for the
promotion and graduation of pupils as provided in sections 15701 and 15701.01.
6.Furnish, repair and insure, at full insurable
value, the school property of the district.
7.Construct school buildings on approval by a vote
of the district electors.
8.Make in the name of the district conveyances of
property belonging to the district and sold by the board.
9.Purchase school sites when authorized by a vote
of the district at an election conducted as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as the election provided in section 15481 and held on a date
prescribed in section 15491, subsection E, but such authorization shall
not necessarily specify the site to be purchased and such authorization shall
not be necessary to exchange unimproved property as provided in section 15342,
paragraph 23.
10.Construct, improve and furnish buildings used
for school purposes when such buildings or premises are leased from the
national park service.
11.Purchase school sites or construct, improve and
furnish school buildings from the proceeds of the sale of school property only
on approval by a vote of the district electors.
12.Hold pupils to strict account for disorderly
conduct on school property.
13.Discipline students for disorderly conduct on
the way to and from school.
14.Except as provided in section 151224,
deposit all monies received by the district as gifts, grants and devises with
the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits as designated in the uniform
system of financial records. If not inconsistent with the terms of the gifts,
grants and devises given, any balance remaining after expenditures for the
intended purpose of the monies have been made shall be used for reduction of
school district taxes for the budget year, except that in the case of
accommodation schools the county treasurer shall carry the balance forward for
use by the county school superintendent for accommodation schools for the
budget year.
15.Provide that, if a parent or legal guardian
chooses not to accept a decision of the teacher as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4, the parent or legal guardian may request in writing that the
governing board review the teacher's decision. This paragraph shall not be construed to release school
districts from any liability relating to a child's promotion or retention.
16.Provide for adequate supervision over pupils in
instructional and noninstructional activities by certificated or
noncertificated personnel.
17.Use school monies received from the state and
county school apportionment exclusively for payment of salaries of teachers and
other employees and contingent expenses of the district.
18.Make an annual report to the county school
superintendent on or before October 1 in the manner and form and on the blanks
prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction or county school
superintendent. The board shall also make reports directly to the county
school superintendent or the superintendent of public instruction whenever
required.
19.Deposit all monies received by school districts
other than student activities monies or monies from auxiliary operations as
provided in sections 151125 and 151126 with the county treasurer
to the credit of the school district except as provided in paragraph 20 of this
subsection and sections 151223 and 151224, and the board shall
expend the monies as provided by law for other school funds.
20.Establish bank accounts in which the board
during a month may deposit miscellaneous monies received directly by the
district. The board shall remit monies deposited in the bank accounts at least
monthly to the county treasurer for deposit as provided in paragraph 19 of this
subsection and in accordance with the uniform system of financial records.
21.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against a teacher who engages in conduct that is a
violation of the policies of the governing board but that is not cause for
dismissal of the teacher or for revocation of the certificate of the
teacher.Disciplinary action may include suspension without pay for
a period of time not to exceed ten school days. Disciplinary action shall not
include suspension with pay or suspension without pay for a period of time
longer than ten school days. The procedures shall include notice, hearing and
appeal provisions for violations that are cause for disciplinary action. The
governing board may designate a person or persons to act on behalf of the board
on these matters.
22.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against an administrator who engages in conduct that is
a violation of the policies of the governing board regarding duties of
administrators but that is not cause for dismissal of the administrator or for
revocation of the certificate of the administrator. Disciplinary action may
include suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school
days. Disciplinary action shall not include suspension with pay or suspension
without pay for a period of time longer than ten school days.The
procedures shall include notice, hearing and appeal provisions for violations
that are cause for disciplinary action. The governing board may designate a
person or persons to act on behalf of the board on these
matters.For violations that are cause for dismissal, the provisions
of notice, hearing and appeal in chapter 5, article 3 of this title shall
apply. The filing of a timely request for a hearing suspends the imposition of
a suspension without pay or a dismissal pending completion of the hearing.
23.Notwithstanding sections 133108 and 133120,
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures that prohibit a person from
carrying or possessing a weapon on school grounds unless the person is a peace
officer or has obtained specific authorization from the school administrator.
24.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
relating to the health and safety of all pupils participating in district
sponsored practice sessions or games or other interscholastic athletic
activities, including:
(a)The provision of water.
(b)Guidelines, information and forms, developed in
consultation with a statewide private entity that supervises interscholastic
activities, to inform and educate coaches, pupils and parents of the dangers of
concussions and head injuries and the risks of continued participation in
athletic activity after a concussion. The policies and procedures shall
require that, before a pupil participates in an athletic activity, the pupil
and the pupil's parent must sign an information form at least once each school
year that states that the parent is aware of the nature and risk of
concussion. The policies and procedures shall require that a pupil who is
suspected of sustaining a concussion in a practice session, game or other
interscholastic athletic activity be immediately removed from the athletic
activity.A coach from the pupil's team or an official or a licensed
health care provider may remove a pupil from play.A team parent may
also remove the parent's own child from play. A pupil may return to play on
the same day if a health care provider rules out a suspected concussion at the
time the pupil is removed from play. On a subsequent day, the pupil may return
to play if the pupil has been evaluated by and received written clearance to
resume participation in athletic activity from a health care provider who has
been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and head
injuries. A health care provider who is a volunteer and who provides clearance
to participate in athletic activity on the day of the suspected injury or on a
subsequent day is immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions
made and actions taken that are based on good faith implementation of the
requirements of this subdivision, except in cases of gross negligence or wanton
or wilful neglect. A school district, school district employee, team coach,
official or team volunteer or a parent or guardian of a team member is not
subject to civil liability for any act, omission or policy undertaken in good
faith to comply with the requirements of this subdivision or for a decision
made or an action taken by a health care provider.A group or organization
that uses property or facilities owned or operated by a school district for
athletic activities shall comply with the requirements of this
subdivision.A school district and its employees and volunteers are
not subject to civil liability for any other person or organization's failure
or alleged failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision. This
subdivision does not apply to teams that are based in another state and that
participate in an athletic activity in this state.For the purposes
of this subdivision, athletic activity does not include dance, rhythmic
gymnastics, competitions or exhibitions of academic skills or knowledge or
other similar forms of physical noncontact activities, civic activities or
academic activities, whether engaged in for the purposes of competition or
recreation. For the purposes of this subdivision, "health care
provider" means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13 or 17, an athletic trainer who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 41, a nurse practitioner
who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, and a physician assistant who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 25.
25.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
regarding the smoking of tobacco within school buildings. The policies and
procedures shall be adopted in consultation with school district personnel and
members of the community and shall state whether smoking is prohibited in
school buildings. If smoking in school buildings is not prohibited, the
policies and procedures shall clearly state the conditions and circumstances
under which smoking is permitted, those areas in a school building that may be
designated as smoking areas and those areas in a school building that may not
be designated as smoking areas.
26.Establish an assessment, data gathering and
reporting system as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
27.Provide special education programs and related
services pursuant to section 15764, subsection A to all children with
disabilities as defined in section 15761.
28.Administer competency tests prescribed by the
state board of education for the graduation of pupils from high school.
29.Ensure that insurance coverage is secured for
all construction projects for purposes of general liability, property damage
and workers' compensation and secure performance and payment bonds for all
construction projects.
30.Keep on file the resumes of all current and
former employees who provide instruction to pupils at a
school.Resumes shall include an individual's educational and
teaching background and experience in a particular academic content subject
area.A school district shall inform parents and guardians of the
availability of the resume information and shall make the resume information
available for inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled
at a school.This paragraph shall not be construed to require any
school to release personally identifiable information in relation to any
teacher or employee, including the teacher's or employee's address, salary,
social security number or telephone number.
31.Report to local law enforcement agencies any
suspected crime against a person or property that is a serious offense as
defined in section 13706 or that involves a deadly weapon or dangerous
instrument or serious physical injury and any conduct that poses a threat of
death or serious physical injury to employees, students or anyone on the
property of the school. This paragraph does not limit or preclude the reporting
by a school district or an employee of a school district of suspected crimes
other than those required to be reported by this paragraph. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "dangerous instrument", "deadly weapon"
and "serious physical injury" have the same meanings prescribed in
section 13105.
32.In conjunction with local law enforcement
agencies and local medical facilities, develop an emergency response plan for
each school in the school district in accordance with minimum standards
developed jointly by the department of education and the division of emergency
management within the department of emergency and military affairs.
33.Provide written notice
to the parents or guardians of all students affected in the school district at
least ten days prior to a public meeting to discuss closing a school within the
school district.The notice shall include the reasons for the
proposed closure and the time and place of the meeting.The
governing board shall fix a time for a public meeting on the proposed closure
no less than ten days before voting in a public meeting to close the school.
The school district governing board shall give notice of the time and place of
the meeting.At the time and place designated in the notice, the
school district governing board shall hear reasons for or against closing the
school.The school district governing board is exempt from this
paragraph if it is determined by the governing board that the school shall be
closed because it poses a danger to the health or safety of the pupils or
employees of the school.A governing board may consult with the
school facilities board for technical assistance and for information on the
impact of closing a school. The information provided from the school
facilities board shall not require the governing board to take or not take any
action.
34.Incorporate
instruction on Native American history into appropriate existing curricula.
35.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures:
(a)Allowing pupils who have been diagnosed with
anaphylaxis by a health care provider licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13, 14, 17 or 25 or by a registered nurse practitioner licensed and certified
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 to carry and self-administer emergency
medications, including autoinjectable epinephrine, while at school and
at schoolsponsored activities. The pupil's name on the prescription
label on the medication container or on the medication device and annual
written documentation from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that
authorizes possession and self-administration is sufficient proof that the
pupil is entitled to the possession and selfadministration of the
medication. The policies shall require a pupil who uses auto-injectable
epinephrine while at school and at schoolsponsored activities to notify
the nurse or the designated school staff person of the use of the medication as
soon as practicable. A school district and its employees are immune from civil
liability with respect to all decisions made and actions taken that are based
on good faith implementation of the requirements of this subdivision, except in
cases of wanton or wilful neglect.
(b)For the emergency administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine by a trained employee of a school district pursuant to section 15157.
36.Allow the possession
and self-administration of prescription medication for breathing disorders in
handheld inhaler devices by pupils who have been prescribed that medication by
a health care professional licensed pursuant to title 32.The
pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication container or on the
handheld inhaler device and annual written documentation from the pupil's
parent or guardian to the school that authorizes possession and
self-administration shall be sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to the
possession and selfadministration of the medication.A school
district and its employees are immune from civil liability with respect to all
decisions made and actions taken that are based on a good faith implementation
of the requirements of this paragraph.
37.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from harassing, intimidating and
bullying other pupils on school grounds, on school property, on school buses,
at school bus stops, at schoolsponsored events and activities and
through the use of electronic technology or electronic communication on school
computers, networks, forums and mailing lists that include the following
components:
(a)A procedure for pupils, parents and school
district employees to confidentially report to school officials incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying.The school shall make
available written forms designed to provide a full and detailed description of
the incident and any other relevant information about the incident.
(b)A requirement that school district employees
report in writing suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
to the appropriate school official and a description of appropriate
disciplinary procedures for employees who fail to report suspected incidents
that are known to the employee.
(c)A requirement that, at the beginning of each
school year, school officials provide all pupils with a written copy of the
rights, protections and support services available to a pupil who is an alleged
victim of an incident reported pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)If an incident is reported pursuant to this
paragraph, a requirement that school officials provide a pupil who is an
alleged victim of the incident with a written copy of the rights, protections
and support services available to that pupil.
(e)A formal process for the documentation of
reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying and for the
confidentiality, maintenance and disposition of this documentation. School
districts shall maintain documentation of all incidents reported pursuant to
this paragraph for at least six years. The school shall not use that
documentation to impose disciplinary action unless the appropriate school
official has investigated and determined that the reported incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying occurred. If a school provides
documentation of reported incidents to persons other than school officials or
law enforcement, all individually identifiable information shall be redacted.
(f)A formal process for the investigation by the
appropriate school officials of suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying, including procedures for notifying the alleged victim on
completion and disposition of the investigation.
(g)Disciplinary procedures for pupils who have
admitted or been found to have committed incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying.
(h)A procedure that sets forth consequences for
submitting false reports of incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
(i)Procedures designed to protect the health and
safety of pupils who are physically harmed as the result of incidents of
harassment, intimidation and bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to
contact emergency medical services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
(j)Definitions of harassment, intimidation and
bullying.
38.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures regarding changing or adopting attendance boundaries
that include the following components:
(a)A procedure for holding public meetings to
discuss attendance boundary changes or adoptions that allows public comments.
(b)A procedure to notify the parents or guardians
of the students affected.
(c)A procedure to notify the residents of the households
affected by the attendance boundary changes.
(d)A process for placing public meeting notices and
proposed maps on the school district's website for public review, if the school
district maintains a website.
(e)A formal process for presenting the attendance
boundaries of the affected area in public meetings that allows public comments.
(f)A formal process for notifying the residents and
parents or guardians of the affected area as to the decision of the governing
board on the school district's website, if the school district maintains a
website.
(g)A formal process for updating attendance
boundaries on the school district's website within ninety days of an adopted
boundary change. The school district shall send a direct link to the school
district's attendance boundaries website to the department of real estate.
(h)If the land that a school was built on was
donated within the past five years, a formal process to notify the entity that
donated the land affected by the decision of the governing board.
39.If the state board of education determines that
the school district has committed an overexpenditure as defined in section 15107,
provide a copy of the fiscal management report submitted pursuant to section 15107,
subsection H on its website and make copies available to the public on
request.The school district shall comply with a request within five
business days after receipt.
40.Ensure that the contract for the superintendent
is structured in a manner in which up to twenty per cent percent of the total annual salary included for the
superintendent in the contract is classified as performance pay. This
paragraph shall not be construed to require school districts to increase total
compensation for superintendents.Unless the school district
governing board votes to implement an alternative procedure at a public meeting
called for this purpose, the performance pay portion of the superintendent's
total annual compensation shall be determined as follows:
(a)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined based on
the percentage of academic gain determined by the department of education of
pupils who are enrolled in the school district compared to the academic gain
achieved by the highest ranking of the fifty largest school districts in this
state.For the purposes of this subdivision, the department of
education shall determine academic gain by the academic growth achieved by each
pupil who has been enrolled at the same school in a school district for at
least five consecutive months measured against that pupil's academic results in
the 20082009 school year.For the purposes of this
subdivision, of the fifty largest school districts in this state, the school
district with pupils who demonstrate the highest statewide percentage of
overall academic gain measured against academic results for the 20082009
school year shall be assigned a score of 100 and the school district with
pupils who demonstrate the lowest statewide percentage of overall academic gain
measured against academic results for the 20082009 school year shall be
assigned a score of 0.
(b)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of parents of pupils who are enrolled at the school district who
assign a letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of parental
satisfaction with the school district.The parental satisfaction
survey shall be administered and scored by an independent entity that is
selected by the governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and
experience to accurately measure the results of the survey. The parental
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each parent who participates in the
survey.The letter grade scale used on the parental satisfaction
survey shall direct parents to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(c)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of teachers who are employed at the school district and who assign a
letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of teacher satisfaction
with the school.The teacher satisfaction survey shall be administered
and scored by an independent entity that is selected by the governing board and
that demonstrates sufficient expertise and experience to accurately measure the
results of the survey.The teacher satisfaction survey shall use
standard random sampling procedures and provide anonymity and confidentiality
to each teacher who participates in the survey. The letter grade scale used on
the teacher satisfaction survey shall direct teachers to assign one of the
following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(d)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by other
criteria selected by the governing board.
41.Maintain and store permanent public records of
the school district as required by law. Notwithstanding section 39101,
the standards adopted by the Arizona state library, archives and public records
for the maintenance and storage of school district public records shall allow
school districts to elect to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by
maintaining and storing these records either on paper or in an electronic
format, or a combination of a paper and electronic format.
42.Adopt in a public meeting and implement by
school year 20132014 policies for principal
evaluations.Before the adoption of principal evaluation policies,
the school district governing board shall provide opportunities for public
discussion on the proposed policies. The policies shall describe:
(a)The principal evaluation instrument, including
the four performance classifications adopted by the governing board pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38.
(b)Alignment of professional development
opportunities to the principal evaluations.
(c)Incentives for principals in one of the two
highest performance classifications pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38, which may include:
(i)Multiyear contracts pursuant to section 15503.
(ii)Incentives to work at schools that are assigned
a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
(d)Transfer and contract processes for principals
designated in the lowest performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraphs 7, 9 and
11 of this section, the county school superintendent may construct, improve and
furnish school buildings or purchase or sell school sites in the conduct of an
accommodation school.
C.If any school district acquires real or personal
property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the
governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property
that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and
interest. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on
property acquired by a school district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens.
D.The governing board may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the
agricultural land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of
section 3365.If the owner agrees in writing to comply with
the buffer zone requirements and records the agreement in the office of the
county recorder as a restrictive covenant running with the title to the land,
the school district may locate a school within the affected buffer zone. The
agreement may include any stipulations regarding the school, including
conditions for future expansion of the school and changes in the operational
status of the school that will result in a breach of the agreement.
E.A school district, its governing board members,
its school council members and its employees are immune from civil liability
for the consequences of adoption and implementation of policies and procedures
pursuant to subsection A of this section and section 15342. This waiver
does not apply if the school district, its governing board members, its school
council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
F.A governing board may delegate in writing to a
superintendent, principal or head teacher the authority to prescribe procedures
that are consistent with the governing board's policies.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, a school district governing board shall not take any action that would
result in a reduction of pupil square footage unless the governing board notifies
the school facilities board established by section 152001 of the
proposed action and receives written approval from the school facilities board
to take the action.A reduction includes an increase in
administrative space that results in a reduction of pupil square footage or
sale of school sites or buildings, or both. A reduction includes a
reconfiguration of grades that results in a reduction of pupil square footage
of any grade level.This subsection does not apply to temporary
reconfiguration of grades to accommodate new school construction if the
temporary reconfiguration does not exceed one year.The sale of
equipment that results in a reduction that falls below the equipment
requirements prescribed in section 152011, subsection B is subject to
commensurate withholding of school district district additional assistance
monies pursuant to the direction of the school facilities
board.Except as provided in section 15342, paragraph 10,
proceeds from the sale of school sites, buildings or other equipment shall be
deposited in the school plant fund as provided in section 151102.
H.Subsections C through G of this section apply to
a county board of supervisors and a county school superintendent when operating
and administering an accommodation school. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 20-3151, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-3151.Definitions
For the purposes of this section chapter:
1."Enrollee" means an individual who is
enrolled in a health care plan provided by a health care insurer.
2."Health care insurer" means a
disability insurer, group disability insurer, blanket disability insurer,
health care services organization, hospital service corporation, medical
service corporation or hospital and medical service corporation.
3."Health care plan" means a policy,
contract or evidence of coverage issued to an enrollee. Health care plan does
not include limited benefit coverage as defined in section 201137.
4."Health care professional" means a
professional who is regulated pursuant to title 32, chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14,
15, 15.1, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35, or
39 or 41, title 36, chapter
6, article 7 or title 36, chapter 17. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 27-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE27-102.Arizona geological survey; state geologist; powers
A.The Arizona geological survey is established with
offices located in proximity to the university of Arizona in
Tucson.The governor shall appoint a state geologist, pursuant to
section 38211, to be the administrative head of the Arizona geological
survey and to serve at the pleasure of the governor.The state
geologist shall be registered as a
geologist by the state board of technical registration, a
graduate of an accredited institution and otherwise qualified by education and
experience to direct the research and information functions of the Arizona
geological survey.
B.The state geologist may organize the Arizona
geological survey into such administrative units, and, subject to title 41,
chapter 4, article 4, employ
professional and support staff, as necessary to achieve the objectives and
promote the policies prescribed by this article.
C.The state geologist may:
1.Retain the services of faculty members or
students, and shall have reasonable access to the data and other resources, of the
university of Arizona or any other state university in this state to conduct or
supervise research, experimentation or other related work of the Arizona
geological survey.
2.Organize field expeditions to perform work for
the Arizona geological survey using university students who are sufficiently
advanced in their study of geology to be able to perform satisfactory work.
3.Establish and appoint an advisory board
consisting of independent practicing geologists, university or college faculty,
mining geologists and others who use and rely on data, information and other
services of the Arizona geological survey.
4.Employ volunteer staff as necessary.
D.The expenses of the Arizona geological survey
shall be paid by annual appropriation from the state general fund and as
otherwise provided by this article.END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 28-411, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-411.Prompt payment; progress payment; consultants and
contractors; subconsultants and subcontractors; design professional
A.The department shall make progress payments
pursuant to the terms of an agreement with a consultant or contractor on the
basis of an invoice for work already performed. All progress payments shall be
paid on or before the twentyfirst day after the date the department
receives the invoice unless the department does not approve and certify the
invoice pursuant to subsection B of this section.
B.Any invoice from a consultant or contractor for
progress payments shall be deemed approved and certified by the department
unless within seven days from the date the department receives the invoice the
department sends the consultant or contractor written notice by first class
mail or by electronic means of those items that the department does not approve
and certify under the terms of the agreement.
C.On or before the seventh day after the date the
department makes a progress payment, if the consultant or contractor contracted
with subconsultants or subcontractors to perform the work for which the
department made the progress payment, the consultant or contractor shall pay
the subconsultants or subcontractors for the work performed to the extent of each
subconsultant's or subcontractor's contractual interest in the progress
payment. If any subconsultant or subcontractor contests the amount paid by a
consultant or contractor from a progress payment made under subsection A of
this section, the subconsultant or subcontractor shall notify the department in
writing within thirty days after receiving the payment from the consultant or
contractor. This subsection does not apply if the contract between the
consultant or contractor and the subconsultant or subcontractor expressly
provides that the prompt payment provisions of this subsection do not apply to
the agreement between the consultant or contractor and the subconsultant or
subcontractor.
D.If a consultant or contractor fails to pay a
subconsultant or subcontractor within seven days of receiving a progress
payment from the department, the consultant or contractor shall pay the
subconsultant or subcontractor interest on the unpaid balance, beginning on the
eighth day at the rate of one percent per month or fraction of a month. This
subsection does not apply if the contract between the consultant or contractor
and the subconsultant or subcontractor expressly provides that the prompt
payment provisions of this subsection do not apply to the agreement between the
consultant or contractor and the subconsultant or subcontractor.
E.A subconsultant or subcontractor may submit a
written request to the department asking the department to notify the
subconsultant or subcontractor of each subsequent progress payment made to the
consultant or contractor.If the department receives a written
request under this subsection, the department shall send the requesting party a
written notice by first class mail of each subsequent progress payment within
five days of making the progress payment.
F.Agreements with the department for consultant or
contractor services do not alter the rights of any consultant or contractor to
receive prompt and timely payment as provided under this section.
G.Subject to the requirements of this section, the
department shall pay the agreed or reasonable value of all labor, materials,
work or services furnished, installed or performed by a design professional
pursuant to a limited notice to proceed from the department's authorized agent
before the execution of a contract or contract modification applicable to the
labor, materials, work or services. The unit prices, contract sum, hourly
rates or other cost or pricing formula of the contract or contract modification
applicable to the labor, materials, work or services is the fair and reasonable
cost for purposes of this section unless the department and its design
professional otherwise agree in writing. If the parties fail to successfully
negotiate and sign a contract or contract modification, the design professional
shall be paid for costs incurred pursuant to the limited notice to proceed and
subject to the department's cost allowability guidelines. For the purposes of
this subsection, "design professional" means a geologist or landscape architect or an
individual or firm registered pursuant to title 32, chapter 1, article 1, to
practice architecture, engineering,
geology, landscape architecture or land surveying or any
combination of those professions and persons employed by the registered
individual or firm.
H.To the extent that this section conflicts with
section 286924, section 286924 controls any agreement between the
department and a contractor for highway construction projects. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 28-7361, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-7361.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Architect services" means those professional
architect services that are within the scope of architectural practice as
provided in title 32, chapter 1.
2."Construction-manager-at-risk" means a
project delivery method in which:
(a)There is a contract for construction services
that is separate from the contract for design services, except that instead of
a single contract for construction services, the department may elect separate
contracts for preconstruction services during the design phase, for
construction during the construction phase and for any other construction
services.
(b)Design services are performed under a separate
design services contract, except that as to bridges and other transportation
facilities the department may perform with its own employees or force account
preliminary design and either:
(i)In the case of bridges only, all design services
up to final design.
(ii)In the case of other transportation facilities,
up to twenty per cent percent of the design work.
(c)The contract for construction services may be
entered into at the same time as the design services are commenced or at a
later time.
(d)Design and construction of the project may be
either:
(i)Sequential with the entire design complete
before construction commences.
(ii)Concurrent with the design produced in two or
more phases and construction of some phases commencing before the entire design
is complete.
(e)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services and other related services may be
included.
3."Construction services" means either of
the following for construction-manager-at-risk and job-order-contracting
project delivery methods:
(a)Construction, excluding services, through the
constructionmanager-at-risk or job-order-contracting project delivery methods.
(b)A combination of construction and, as elected by
the department, one or more related services, such as finance services,
maintenance services, operations services, design services and preconstruction
services, as those services are authorized in the definition of
construction-manager-at-risk or jobordercontracting.
4."Contract" means all types of
department agreements, regardless of what they are called, for procurements
pursuant to this article.
5."Contractor" means any person who has a
contract with the department.
6."Designbuild" means the process
of entering into and managing a contract between the department and another
party in which the other party agrees to both design and build a highway, a
structure, a facility or other items specified in the contract.
7."Designbuilder" means any
individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legal entity that
is appropriately licensed in this state and that furnishes the necessary design
services, in addition to construction of the work, whether by itself or through
subcontracts, including subcontracts for architectural and engineering
services.
8."Design services" means architect
services, engineer services or landscape architect services.
9."Emergency" means an immediate threat
to public health, welfare or safety caused by flood, earthquake, hurricane,
tornado, explosion, fire or other catastrophe such that compliance with normal
bidding procedures for repair or reconstruction of transportation facilities
would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest.
10."Engineer services" means those
professional engineer services that are within the scope of engineering
practice as provided in title 32, chapter1.
11."Finance services" means financing for
a construction services project.
12."Job-order-contracting"
means a project delivery method in which:
(a)The contract is
for indefinite quantities of construction and, at the election of the
department, may or may not include a guaranteed minimum amount of work.
(b)The construction to be performed is specified in
job orders issued during the contract.
(c)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services, design services and other
related services may be included.
13."Landscape
architect services" means those professional landscape architect services
that are within the scope of landscape architectural practice as provided in
title 32, chapter 1.
14.13."Maintenance
services" means routine maintenance, repair and replacement of existing
facilities, structures, buildings or real property.
15.14."Operations
services" means routine operation of existing facilities, structures,
buildings or real property.
16.15."Person"
means any corporation, business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization or group of individuals.
17.16."Preconstruction
services" means services and other activities during the design phase.
18.17."Specific
single project" means a project that is constructed at a single location,
at a common location or for a common purpose.
19.18."Subcontractor"
means a person who contracts to perform work or render service to a contractor
or to another subcontractor as a part of a contract with the department. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 32, chapter 1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "ARCHITECTS, ASSAYERS, ENGINEERS, GEOLOGISTS,
HOME INSPECTORS, LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS AND SURVEYORS" to "ARCHITECTS,
ENGINEERS, HOME INSPECTORS AND SURVEYORS".
Sec.12.Section 32-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-101.Purpose; definitions
A.The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the
safety, health and welfare of the public through the promulgation and
enforcement of standards of qualification for those individuals WHO ARE registered or certified and seeking
registration or certification pursuant to this chapter.
B.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Advertising" includes business cards,
signs or letterhead provided by a person to the public.
2."Alarm" or "alarm system":
(a)Means any mechanical or electrical device that
is designed to emit an audible alarm or transmit a signal or message if
activated and that is used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building or
other facility or alert other persons of the occurrence of a medical emergency
or the commission of an unlawful act against a person or in a building or other
facility.
(b)Includes a silent, panic, holdup, robbery,
duress, burglary, medical alert or proprietor alarm that requires emergency
personnel to respond.
(c)Does not include a telephone call diverter or a
system that is designed to report environmental and other occurrences and that
is not designed or used to alert or cause other persons to alert public safety
personnel.
3."Alarm agent":
(a)Means a person, whether an employee, an
independent contractor or otherwise, who acts on behalf of an alarm business
and who tests, maintains, services, repairs, sells, rents, leases or installs
alarm systems.
(b)Does not include any action by a person that:
(i)Is performed in connection with an alarm system
located on the person's own property or the property of the person's employer.
(ii)Is acting on behalf of an alarm business whose
work duties do not include visiting the location where an alarm system
installation occurs.
4."Alarm business":
(a)Means any person who, either alone or through a
third party, engages in the business of either of the following:
(i)Providing alarm monitoring services.
(ii)Selling, leasing, renting, maintaining,
repairing or installing a nonproprietor alarm system or service.
(b)Does not include any of the following:
(i)A person or company that purchases, rents or
uses an alarm that is affixed to a motor vehicle.
(ii)A person who owns or conducts a business of
selling, leasing, renting, installing, maintaining or monitoring an alarm that
is affixed to a motor vehicle.
(iii)A person who installs a nonmonitored
proprietor alarm for a business that the person owns, is employed by or
manages.
(iv)The installation or monitoring of fire alarm
systems.
(v)An alarm system that is operated by a city or town.
5."Alarm subscriber" means any person
who:
(a)Leases, rents or purchases any monitored alarm
system or service from an alarm business.
(b)Leases or rents an alarm system.
(c)Contracts with an alarm business for alarm
monitoring, installation, repair or maintenance services.
6."Architect" means a person who, by
reason of knowledge of the mathematical and physical sciences and the
principles of architecture and architectural engineering acquired by
professional education and practical experience, is qualified to engage in the
practice of architecture as attested by registration as an architect.
7."Architectintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional architect who is a
graduate of a school approved by the board or who has five years or more of
education or experience, or both, in architectural work which THAT
meets standards specified by the board in its rules. In addition,
the candidate shall have passed the architectintraining
examination.
8."Architectural practice" means any
professional service or creative work requiring architectural education,
training and experience, and the application of the mathematical and physical
sciences and the principles of architecture and architectural engineering to
such professional services or creative work as consultation, evaluation, design
and review of construction for conformance with contract documents and design,
in connection with any building, planning or site development.A
person shall be deemed to practice or offer to practice architecture who in any
manner represents that the person is an architect, or is able to perform any architectural
service or other services recognized by educational authorities as
architecture.
9."Assayer"
means a person who analyzes metals, ores, minerals, or alloys in order to
ascertain the quantity of gold or silver or any other substance present in
them.A person employed on a fulltime basis as an assayer by
an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining or treating ores or
other minerals shall not be deemed to be engaged in assaying practice for the
purposes of this chapter if the person engages in assaying practice exclusively
for and as an employee of such employer and does not represent that the person
is available and is not represented as being available to perform any assaying
services for anyone other than the person's employer.
10."Assayerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional assayer who is a graduate
of a school and curriculum approved by the board or who has four years or more
of education or experience, or both, in assaying work which meets standards
specified by the board in its rules. In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the assayerintraining examination.
11."Assaying
practice" means any professional service or work requiring assaying
education, training and experience and the application of special knowledge of
the mineral sciences to such service or work as consultation and the evaluation
of minerals.A person is deemed to practice or offer to practice
assaying who in any manner represents that the person is an assayer or is able
to perform any assaying service or other services recognized by educational
authorities as assaying.
12.9."Board"
means the state board of technical registration.
13.10."Certified
remediation specialist" means a person who has been certified by the board
to perform, supervise and review environmental remediations if the use of a
certified remediation specialist is specifically authorized by title 49 and
rules adopted pursuant to title 49.
14.11."Controlling
person":
(a)Means a person who is designated by an alarm
business.
(b)Does not include an alarm agent.
15.12."Drug
laboratory site remediation firm" means a firm that is licensed by the
registrar of contractors pursuant to chapter 10 of this title and that performs
remediation of residual contamination from the manufacture of methamphetamine,
ecstasy or LSD or the storage of chemicals or equipment used in manufacturing
methamphetamine, ecstasy or LSD. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Ecstasy" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the
precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in
the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(b)"LSD" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the precursor
chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in the
unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(c)"Methamphetamine" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the
precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in
the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
16.13."Engineer"
means a person who, by reason of special knowledge of the mathematical and
physical sciences and the principles and methods of engineering analysis and
design acquired by professional education and practical experience, is
qualified to practice engineering as attested by registration as a professional
engineer.
17.14."Engineering
practice" means any professional service or creative work requiring
engineering education, training and experience and the application of special
knowledge of the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences to such
professional services or creative work as consultation, research investigation,
evaluation, planning, surveying as defined in paragraph 27 21,
subdivisions (d) and (e) of this subsection, design, location, development, and
review of construction for conformance with contract documents and design, in
connection with any public or private utility, structure, building, machine,
equipment, process, work or project. Such services and work include plans and designs
relating to the location, development, mining and treatment of ore and other
minerals. A person shall be deemed to be practicing or offering to practice
engineering if the person practices any branch of the profession of
engineering, or by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or any
other manner represents that the person is a professional engineer, or is able
to perform or does perform any engineering service or other service recognized
by educational authorities as engineering. A person employed on a fulltime
basis as an engineer by an employer engaged in the business of developing,
mining and treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to be
practicing engineering for the purposes of this chapter if the person engages
in the practice of engineering exclusively for and as an employee of such
employer and does not represent that the person is available and is not
represented as being available to perform any engineering services for persons
other than the person's employer.
18.15."Engineerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional engineer who is a graduate
in an approved engineering curriculum of four years or more of a school
approved by the board or who has had
four years or more of education or experience, or both, in engineering work which THAT meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the engineerintraining
examination.
19.16."Firm"
means any individual or partnership, corporation or other type of association,
including the association of a nonregistrant and a registrant who offers to the
public professional services regulated by the board.
20."Geological
practice" means any professional service or work requiring geological
education, training and experience, and the application of special knowledge of
the earth sciences to such professional services as consultation, evaluation of
mining properties, petroleum properties and groundwater resources, professional
supervision of exploration for mineral natural resources including metallic and
nonmetallic ores, petroleum and groundwater, and the geological phases of
engineering investigations.
21."Geologist"
means a person, not of necessity an engineer, who by reason of special
knowledge of the earth sciences and the principles and methods of search for
and appraisal of mineral or other natural resources acquired by professional
education and practical experience is qualified to practice geology as attested
by registration as a professional geologist.A person employed on a
fulltime basis as a geologist by an employer engaged in the business of
developing, mining or treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to
be engaged in geological practice for the purposes of this chapter if the
person engages in geological practice exclusively for and as an employee of
such employer and does not represent that the person is available and is not
represented as being available to perform any geological services for persons
other than the person's employer.
22."Geologistintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional geologist who is a
graduate of a school approved by the board or who has had four years or more of
education or experience, or both, in geological work which meets standards
specified by the board in its rules. In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the geologistintraining examination.
23.17."Home
inspection" means a visual analysis for the purposes of providing a
professional opinion of the building, any reasonably accessible installed
components and the operation of the building's systems, including the controls
normally operated by the owner, for the following components of a residential
building of four units or less:
(a)Heating system.
(b)Cooling system.
(c)Plumbing system.
(d)Electrical system.
(e)Structural components.
(f)Foundation.
(g)Roof covering.
(h)Exterior and interior components.
(i)Site aspects as they affect the building.
(j)Pursuant to rules adopted by the board, swimming
pool and spa.
24.18."Home
inspection report" means a written report that is prepared for
compensation, that is issued after a home inspection and that clearly describes
and identifies the inspected systems, structures and components of a completed
dwelling and any visible major defects found to be in need of immediate major
repair and any recommendations for additional evaluation by appropriate
persons.
25.19."Home
inspector" means an individual who is certified pursuant to this chapter
as a home inspector and who engages in the business of performing home
inspections and writing home inspection reports.
26.20."Home
inspectorintraining" means a candidate for certification as
a home inspector who has completed a course of study approved by the board and
who is participating in a training program that complies with standards
recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and approved by
the board.
27.21."Land
surveying practice" means the performance of one or more of the following
professional services:
(a)Measurement of land to determine the position of
any monument or reference point which
THAT marks a property
line, boundary or corner for the purpose of determining the area or description
of the land.
(b)Location, relocation, establishment,
reestablishment, setting, resetting or replacing of corner monuments or
reference points which identify land boundaries, rightsofway or
easements.
(c)Platting or plotting of lands for the purpose of
subdividing.
(d)Measurement by angles, distances and elevations
of natural or artificial features in the air, on the surface and immediate
subsurface of the earth, within underground workings and on the surface or
within bodies of water for the purpose of determining or establishing their
location, size, shape, topography, grades, contours or water surface and
depths, and the preparation and perpetuation of field note records and maps
depicting these features.
(e)Setting, resetting or replacing of points to
guide the location of new construction.
28.22."Land
surveyor" means a person who by reason of knowledge of the mathematical
and physical sciences, principles of land surveying and evidence gathering
acquired by professional education or practical experience, or both, is
qualified to practice land surveying as attested by registration as a land
surveyor.A person employed on a fulltime basis as a land
surveyor by an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining or
treating ores or other minerals shall not be deemed to be engaged in land
surveying practice for purposes of this chapter if the person engages in land
surveying practice exclusively for and as an employee of such employer and does
not represent that the person is available and is not represented as being
available to perform any land surveying services for persons other than the
person's employer.
29.23."Land
surveyorintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional land surveyor who is a graduate of a school and curriculum approved
by the board, or who
has four years or more of education or experience, or both, in land surveying
work which THAT meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the land
surveyorintraining examination.
30."Landscape
architect" means a person who, by reason of professional education or
practical experience, or both, is qualified to engage in the practice of
landscape architecture as attested by registration as a landscape architect.
31."Landscape
architectintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional landscape architect who is a graduate of a school approved by the
board or who has had four years or more of education or experience, or both, in
landscape architectural work which meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the
landscape architectintraining examination.
32."Landscape
architectural practice" means the performance of professional services
such as consultations, investigation, reconnaissance, research, planning,
design or responsible supervision in connection with the development of land
and incidental water areas where, and to the extent that, the dominant purpose
of such services is the preservation, enhancement or determination of proper
land uses, natural land features, ground cover and planting, naturalistic and
aesthetic values, the settings of and approaches to buildings, structures,
facilities or other improvements, natural drainage and the consideration and
the determination of inherent problems of the land relating to erosion, wear
and tear, light or other hazards.This practice shall include the
location and arrangement of such tangible objects and features as are
incidental and necessary to the purposes outlined in this paragraph but shall
not include the making of cadastral surveys or final land plats for official
recording or approval, nor mandatorily include planning for governmental
subdivisions.
33.24."Monitored
alarm" means a device that is designed for the detection of an entry on
any premises and that if activated generates a notification signal.
34.25."Onsite
supervisor" means the employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm
who is authorized to oversee onsite workers in the performance of their
duties.
35.26."Onsite
worker" means an employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm who
has onsite duties or who handles contaminated materials, chemicals or
contaminated equipment.
36.27."Person"
means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization.
37.28."Principal"
means an individual who is an officer of the corporation or is designated by a
firm as having full authority and responsible charge of the services offered by
the firm.
38.29."Proprietor
alarm" means any alarm or alarm system that is owned by an alarm
subscriber who has not contracted with an alarm business.
39.30."Registrant"
means a person registered or certified by the board. 
40.31."Registration"
means a registration or certification issued by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 32-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-102.State board of technical registration; vacancies; terms
A.A
The state board of
technical registration is established consisting of members who are appointed by the governor as follows:
1.Two architects.
2.Three professional engineers, two of whom are representatives
of branches of engineering other than civil engineering and are registered in
those branches pursuant to this chapter.
3.One Three public member
members. 
4.One
landscape architect.
5.One
geologist or assayer.
6.4.One land surveyor.
B.Upon
on the expiration of any
of the terms, a successor, who is qualified pursuant to subsection A, of this section shall be appointed for a full
term of three years.The governor may remove a member of the board
for misconduct, incapacity or neglect of duty.Appointment to fill a
vacancy caused other than by expiration of term shall be for the unexpired
portion of the term.
C.No member may serve more than two consecutive
terms.END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 32-103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-103.Qualifications of members
A.Each professional member of the board shall:
1.Be at least twentyfive years of age.
2.Have been a resident of the this
state for at least three years immediately preceding appointment
as a member.
B.Each member who is an architect, geologist, an assayer, a landscape architect, a
professional engineer or a land surveyor shall have had at least five years' active professional
experience as attested by registration under this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section
32-112, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-112.Environmental remediation rules and standards committee
A.An environmental
remediation rules and standards committee of the board is established and
consists of:
1.One industrial hygienist or toxicologist who is
experienced in sampling and monitoring and indoor air quality issues and who is
appointed by the board.
2.One person who is experienced in operating a drug
laboratory remediation firm and who is appointed by the board.
3.One representative from the department of health
services who is
experienced in indoor air quality who is appointed by the director of the
department of health services.
4.One registered engineer or professional geologist who is experienced in
environmental remediation and who is appointed by the board.
5.One member of the board who is an engineer or a geologist.
B.The initial members shall assign themselves by
lot to terms of one, two and three years in office. All subsequent members
serve three year threeyear terms of
office. The board by a majority vote may remove any member for misconduct,
incapacity or neglect of duty.
C.The committee may participate in the
investigation and review of drug laboratory remediation complaints as
authorized by the board.
D.The committee is responsible for drafting and
recommending to the board best practices and standards for remediation of
residual contamination found on real property from the manufacture of
methamphetamine, ecstasy or LSD or the storage of chemicals or equipment used
in manufacturing methamphetamine, ecstasy or LSD.END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 32-122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.Qualifications for intraining registration
A.An applicant for intraining registration
as an architect, or engineer, geologist or landscape architect
shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be a graduate of a school approved by the board
or have four years or more, or if an applicant for intraining
registration as an architect, five years or more, of education or experience,
or both, in work in the profession in which registration is sought that meets
standards specified by the board in its rules.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126,
subsection D, pass the intraining examination in the profession in which
registration is sought.
B.An applicant for intraining registration
as an assayer or a land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good
moral character and repute.
2.1.Be a graduate of
a school and curriculum approved by the board, or have four years or more of
education or experience, or both, in work in the profession in which
registration is sought that meets standards specified by the board in its
rules.
3.2.Unless exempt
under section 32126, subsection D, pass the intraining
examination in the profession in which registration is sought.
C.An applicant for intraining registration
as a home inspectorintraining shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Meet the requirements of section 32122.02,
subsection A, paragraphs 1 through 7. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 32-122.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.01.Qualifications for professional registration
A.An applicant for professional registration as an
architect, or engineer, geologist or landscape architect shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be actively engaged in education or experience,
or both, in the profession for which registration is sought for at least eight
years.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126, pass
the intraining and professional examinations in the profession in which
registration is sought.
B.An applicant for professional registration as an assayer or a land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be actively engaged in education or experience,
or both, in the profession for which registration is sought for at least six
years.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126, pass
the intraining and professional examinations in the profession in which
registration is sought.
C.In computing the period of active engagement
required under this section:
1.Each year of study satisfactorily completed in an
architectural, or engineering, geological or landscape architectural school
approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active engagement up to a
maximum of five years.One year or more of teaching architectural, or engineering, geological or landscape architectural
subjects in a school approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active
engagement.
2.Each year of study satisfactorily completed in an assaying or a land surveying curriculum and school
approved by the board is considered equivalent to one year of active engagement
up to a maximum of four years. One year or more of teaching assaying or land surveying or other courses
approved by the board as pertinent to the profession in which registration is
sought in a school approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active
engagement.
D.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, experience credited by the board under this section and sections 32101,
32122 and 32126 must be attained under the direct supervision of
a professional who is satisfactory to the board and registered in this state,
another state or a foreign country in the profession in which the applicant is
seeking registration, except that up to one year's experience may be attained
under the direct supervision of a professional who is satisfactory to the board
and registered in another profession regulated under this chapter in this
state, another state or a foreign country.
E.By twothirds majority vote the board may
allow an applicant except for an architect applicant to meet the requirements
of subsection D of this section by crediting comparable experience satisfactory
to the board that the applicant attained without direct supervision of a
registered professional.END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 32-142, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
END_STATUTE32-142.Public works
A.Drawings, plans, specifications, estimates and
construction observation for public works of the this
state or a political subdivision thereof of
this state involving architecture, engineering, assaying, geology, landscape architecture or
land surveying shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registrant within the category involved.
B.Surveys, or maps or assays required in connection with public
land surveying or assaying
shall be made by or under the personal direction of a qualified registrant.
C.Drawings, plans, design specifications and
construction observation of public works facilities of the state or a political
subdivision thereof of this state for the use or
storage of hazardous materials shall be made by or under the direct supervision
of a qualified registrant in the appropriate field. START_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 32-143, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-143.Exceptions
An architect, geologist,
or engineer or landscape architect registered
under this chapter may engage in practice in another category regulated
pursuant to this chapter only to the extent that the person is qualified and to
the extent that the work may be necessary and incidental to the work of the
registrant's profession on a specific project.This exception does
not apply to public works projects.END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Title 32, chapter 1, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-153, to read:
START_STATUTE32-153.Use of titles; restrictions; definitions
A.A person
or an employee, agent or representative of the person may not use in connection
with that person's name or business activity the words "professional
geologist" or "professional geological services" or any other
words, abbreviations or insignia indicating or implying directly or indirectly
that professional geological services are being provided or supplied unless the
services are provided by a professional geologist.
B.A person
or an employee, agent or representative of the person may not use in connection
with that person's name or business activity the words "professional
landscape architect" or "professional landscape architectural
services" or any other words, abbreviations or insignia indicating or
implying directly or indirectly that landscape architecture services are being
provided or supplied unless the services are provided by a professional landscape
architect.
C.For the
purposes of this section, "professional geologist" and
"professional landscape architect" mean a person who has either of
the following:
1.A valid
certificate of qualification in that person's field of application that is
issued by a national bureau of registration or certification.
2.A degree
or certificate from an accredited educational institution in that person's
field.END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 32-1301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1301.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Accredited" means recognized or
authorized by the American board of funeral service education.
2."Administrative costs and expenses"
means the cost of copies, transcripts, court reporter and witness fees,
reimbursement for mileage and office of administrative hearings costs.
3."Alternative container" means any
unfinished wood box or other nonmetal receptacle or enclosure, without
ornamentation or a fixed interior lining, that is designed for the encasement
of human remains.
4."Authorizing agent" means a person who
is legally entitled to order the cremation, disinterment or embalming of human
remains pursuant to section 321365.02.
5."Beneficiary" means a person whose
future funeral arrangements will be handled by a funeral establishment pursuant
to a prearranged funeral agreement.
6."Board" means the state board of
funeral directors and embalmers.
7."Business entity" includes any
corporation, association, limited liability company, professional corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, sole proprietorship, business trust, trust,
joint venture and other business entity.
8."Casket" means a rigid container that
is designed for the permanent encasement of human remains and that is usually
constructed of wood, metal or synthetic substances and ornamented and lined
with fabric.
9."Change of ownership" means a transfer
of a controlling legal or equitable interest in a licensed funeral
establishment or crematory resulting from a sale or merger.If the
establishment or crematory is operated by a business entity, any transfer of
the ownership of ten per cent
percent or more of the
entity constitutes a change of ownership.
10."Conviction" means a criminal
adjudication or conviction by any state or federal court of competent
jurisdiction, including a judgment based on a no contest plea, without regard
to whether civil rights have been restored.
11."Cremated remains" means the remaining
bone fragments after cremation.
12."Cremation" means the heating process
that reduces human remains to bone fragments by combustion and evaporation.
13."Cremation container" means a leak and
spill resistant, rigid, combustible, closed receptacle into which human remains
are placed before cremation.
14."Cremationist"
means a person who operates a crematory retort, who performs the actual
cremation of human remains and who is licensed pursuant to article 6 of this
chapter.
15.14."Crematory"
means a building or portion of a building that is licensed pursuant to article
6 of this chapter and that houses a retort in which only human remains are
cremated.
16.15."Disciplinary
action" means action taken by the board to revoke or suspend a license or
registration, to impose probationary requirements or civil penalties or to
issue a letter of censure or reprimand to any person who is subject to this
chapter and who violates any provision of this chapter or rules adopted by the
board.
17.16."Embalmer"
means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and who is engaged in
embalming.
18.17."Embalmer's
assistant" means a person who is registered pursuant to this chapter and
who is engaged in embalming without the supervision of a licensed embalmer.
19.18."Embalming"
means the implementation of reconstructive procedures and the process of
disinfecting and preserving a dead human body to retard organic decomposition
by treating the body to reduce the presence and growth of organisms.
20.19."Financial
institution" means a bank, savings and loan association, trust company or
credit union that is lawfully doing business in this state and that is not
affiliated with a funeral establishment.
21.20."Fixed
price prearranged funeral agreement funded by trust" means any agreement
or combination of agreements that establishes a fixed price for funeral goods
and services, that requires a funeral establishment to provide those funeral
goods and services at the price levels in effect at the time of the execution
of the agreement and that requires the purchaser to convey all or a portion of
the accrued interest to the funeral establishment at the time that the funeral
goods and services are actually provided.
22.21."Funded
by insurance" means that monies for a prearranged funeral agreement are
paid directly to an insurance company licensed pursuant to title 20 on behalf
of the beneficiary of the agreement.
23.22."Funeral
directing" means arranging, directing or providing a service in the
disposition of dead human bodies for compensation, including operating a crematory retort and performing the
actual cremation of human remains.
24.23."Funeral
director" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and who
is engaged in funeral directing.
25.24."Funeral
establishment" means a business at a specific location that is licensed
pursuant to this chapter and that is devoted to the care, storage or
preparation for final disposition or transportation of dead human bodies.
26.25."Funeral
goods and services" means any personal property or services typically sold
or provided in connection with the final disposition of human remains,
including caskets, alternative containers, outer burial containers, cremation
containers, transportation containers, funeral clothing or accessories,
monuments, grave markers, urns, embalming services, funeral directing services
and similar funeral or burial items.Funeral goods and services do
not include goods and services sold by cemeteries.
27.26."Good
moral character" means that a person:
(a)Has not been convicted of a class 1 or 2 felony
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)Has not, within five years of application for
licensure or registration, been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor if the
offense has a reasonable relationship to the person's proposed area of
licensure or registration.
(c)Has not, within five years of application for
licensure or registration, committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud,
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, gross negligence or incompetence
if the act has a reasonable relationship to the person's proposed area of
licensure or registration.
(d)Is not currently incarcerated in or on community
supervision after a period of imprisonment in a local, state or federal penal
institution or on criminal probation.
(e)Has not engaged in fraud or misrepresentation in
connection with an application for licensure or registration under this chapter
or an examination required for licensure or registration.
(f)Has not, within five years of application for
licensure or registration, had a license, registration or endorsement revoked
or suspended by the board or by the funeral services licensing authority of any
other jurisdiction.
(g)Has not surrendered a license, registration or
endorsement to the board or the funeral licensing authority of any other
jurisdiction in lieu of disciplinary action.
(h)Has not practiced funeral directing or embalming
without a license in this state or any other jurisdiction that requires
licensure to perform these activities.
28.27."Holding
facility" means a designated area for the retention of human remains.
29.28."Human
remains" means a lifeless human body or parts of a human body that permit
a reasonable inference that death occurred.
30.29."Intern"
means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and who is engaged in
embalming under the supervision of a licensed embalmer.
31.30."Intern
trainee" means a person who intends to enter training as an intern and who
is temporarily employed by a funeral establishment.
32.31."License"
means a written authorization that is issued by the board and that entitles a
person to act as a funeral director, embalmer or intern or to operate a funeral
establishment or crematory in this state.
33.32."Licensee"
means a person to whom the board has issued a license to act as a funeral
director, embalmer or intern or to operate a funeral establishment or crematory
in this state.
34.33."Manage"
means:
(a)for
that a responsible
funeral director to exercise
excercises control and
oversight over all employees of both of
the following:
(a)A funeral
establishment and over funeral transactions, including the care of dead human
bodies, funeral services and activities and the documentation and retention of
records.
(b)For a
responsible cremationist to exercise control and oversight over all employees
of A crematory and crematory operations.
35.34."National
board examination" means the test or tests given by the conference of
funeral service examining boards to determine the entry level knowledge and
skills of a person regarding funeral directing and embalming.
36.35."Net
interest" means interest earned on a prearranged funeral trust account
less applicable taxes, reasonable and necessary charges made by the financial
institution and the annual service fee permitted to be deducted by the funeral
establishment according to section 321391.06, subsection B.
37.36."Outer
burial container" means a container that is designed for placement in a
grave around a casket, including burial vaults, grave boxes and grave liners.
38.37."Owner"
means a person who owns ten per cent
percent or more of a
business entity. Owner does not include shareholders of companies who have a
class of common equity stock listed or authorized to be listed on the New York
stock exchange or the American stock exchange or listed on the NASDAQ stock
market.
39.38."Person
legally responsible" means the person responsible for burying a dead body
as determined in section 36831.
40.39."Prearranged
funeral agreement" means any agreement or combination of agreements under
which a payment is made before the death of the intended beneficiary for
funeral goods and services to be delivered or performed after the death of the
beneficiary.
41.40."Prearranged
funeral trust account" means a trust account that is established at a
financial institution and into which all monies paid on behalf of a beneficiary
pursuant to a prearranged funeral agreement are deposited.
42.41."Preparation"
means washing, shaving, dressing or arranging hair on, applying cosmetics to or
positioning bodily features on a dead human body and placing a dead human body
in a casket.
43.42."Processed
cremated remains" means cremated remains after they are pulverized and
cleaned, leaving primarily small bone fragments.
44.43."Provisionally
accredited" means granted candidacy status by the American board of
funeral service education.
45.44."Registration"
means a written authorization that is issued by the board and that entitles a
person to act as an assistant funeral director, an embalmer's assistant or a
prearranged funeral salesperson in this state.
46."Responsible
cremationist" means a licensed cremationist who manages a crematory.
47.45."Responsible
funeral director" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter,
who is engaged in funeral directing,
and who manages and is
accountable for a funeral establishment
and who manages a crematory.
48.46."Retort"
means an enclosed space within which cremation takes place.
49.47."State
equivalent examination" means the test or tests provided by the conference
of funeral service examining boards and offered by the board to determine the
entry level knowledge and skills of a person regarding funeral directing and
embalming.
50.48."Supervise"
or "supervision" means a licensed embalmer has responsibility for and
is within sight and sound of a licensed intern who is embalming a dead human
body or a student who is assisting in embalming a dead human body.
51.49."Temporary
container" means a receptacle that is usually made of cardboard, rigid
plastic or another similar material and that is designed to hold processed
cremated remains until they are placed in an urn or another permanent
container.
52.50."Trust
funds" means all monies deposited on behalf of a beneficiary of a
prearranged funeral agreement funded by trust and all accrued net interest.Trust
funds shall be considered an account kept in suspense until distributed to the
beneficiary, the funeral establishment or the estate of the beneficiary in
accordance with this article.
53.51."Universal
precautions" means the universal blood and fluid precautions recommended
by the centers for disease control of the United States public health service
to prevent the transmission of bloodborne
bloodborne and bodily
fluidborne infectious diseases.
54.52."Unprofessional
conduct" includes the following acts, whether occurring in this state or
elsewhere:
(a)Commission of a class 1 or 2 felony.
(b)Commission of a felony or misdemeanor if the
offense has a reasonable relationship to funeral directing or
embalming.Conviction by any court of competent jurisdiction or a
plea of no contest is conclusive evidence of the commission.
(c)Providing false, misleading or deceptive
information on an application for licensure or registration pursuant to this
chapter or on an examination required for licensure or registration.
(d)Bribing or offering to bribe, directly or
indirectly, a member of the board to influence the member's actions in the
performance of the member's duties.
(e)Wilfully interfering with an embalmer, or funeral director or cremationist who has lawful custody of a
dead human body in the performance of the embalmer's,
or funeral director's or
cremationist's duty to embalm or prepare the body for burial,
transportation or cremation.
(f)Paying or causing money or other valuable consideration
to be paid to a person, other than an employee of a funeral establishment, to
secure business regulated pursuant to this chapter from or through the person.
(g)Violating any law of this state or any rule
adopted by the department of health services that relates to the embalming or
preparation of dead human bodies.
(h)Certifying falsely to having embalmed or
prepared a dead human body that was embalmed by a person other than a licensed
embalmer making the certification or an intern under the supervision of a
licensed embalmer making the certification.
(i)Falsely advertising or labeling any service or
merchandise with the intention of deceiving the public.
(j)Shipping or delivering any merchandise or
supplies that are not the substantial equivalent of or superior in quality to
merchandise or supplies previously presented to the purchaser as samples.
(k)Committing any act involving dishonesty, fraud,
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, gross negligence or incompetence
if the act has a reasonable relationship to funeral directing or embalming.
(l)Engaging in any conduct or practice that is
reasonably related to funeral directing or embalming and that is or may be
harmful or dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the public.
(m)Within a period of five years, having a license,
registration or endorsement suspended or revoked by the board or by the funeral
services licensing authority of any other jurisdiction or surrendering a
license, registration or endorsement in lieu of disciplinary action.
55.53."Urn"
means a receptacle into which processed cremated remains are placed for
disposition. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 32-1309, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1309.Fees
A.The board shall establish and collect the
following application fees:
1.For a funeral director license, eightyfive
dollars.
2.For an embalmer license, eightyfive
dollars.
3.For an embalmer's assistant registration, eightyfive
dollars.
4.For an intern license, eightyfive dollars.
5.For a funeral director or embalmer license for a
person who does not reside in this state, eightyfive dollars.
6.For a prearranged funeral salesperson
registration, eightyfive dollars.
7.For a funeral establishment license:
(a)For a new establishment, new owner or new
location, five hundred dollars.
(b)For a change of name, one hundred seventyfive
dollars.
8.For a prearranged funeral sales establishment
endorsement, one hundred eightyfive dollars.
9.For a crematory license:
(a)For a new crematory, new owner or new location,
one hundred dollars per retort.
(b)For a change of name, one hundred seventyfive
dollars.
10.For a cremationist
license, eightyfive dollars.
B.The board shall establish and collect the
following examination fees:
1.For the funeral director state laws and rules
examination, eighty dollars.
2.For the embalmer state laws and rules
examination, eighty dollars.
3.For the prearranged funeral salesperson state
laws and rules examination, eighty dollars.
4.For the funeral service science section of the
state equivalent examination, one hundred fifty dollars.
5.For the funeral service arts section of the state
equivalent examination, one hundred fifty dollars.
C.The board shall establish and collect the
following license and registration issuance fees:
1.For a funeral director license, eightyfive
dollars.
2.For an embalmer license, eightyfive dollars.
3.For an embalmer's assistant registration, eightyfive
dollars.
4.For an intern license, eightyfive dollars.
5.For a prearranged funeral salesperson
registration, eightyfive dollars.
6.For a
cremationist license, eightyfive dollars.
D.The board shall establish and collect the
following renewal fees:
1.For a funeral director license, eightyfive
dollars.
2.For an embalmer license, eightyfive
dollars.
3.For an embalmer's assistant registration, eightyfive
dollars.
4.For an intern license, eightyfive dollars.
5.For an assistant funeral director registration,
eightyfive dollars.
6.For a prearranged funeral salesperson
registration, eightyfive dollars.
7.For an establishment license, four dollars for
each disposition performed by the establishment during the immediately
preceding calendar year.For the purposes of this paragraph, a
funeral establishment performs a disposition each time the establishment files
a death certificate pursuant to section 36325.
8.For a prearranged funeral sales establishment
endorsement, one hundred eightyfive dollars.
9.For a crematory license, two hundred dollars per
retort.
10.For a
cremationist license, eightyfive dollars.
E.The board shall establish and collect the
following fees:
1.For a duplicate license or registration, twentyfive
dollars.
2.For a reexamination:
(a)For a state laws and rules examination, fifty
dollars.
(b)For the funeral service science section or the
funeral service arts section of the state equivalent examination, sixtyfive
dollars.
3.For late renewal of a licensee or registration,
thirtyfive dollars.
4.For late renewal of an establishment license or
endorsement, sixty dollars.
5.For inactive licensure or registration, twentyfive
dollars.
6.For reinstatement of an inactive license, fifty
dollars.
7.For reinstatement of an inactive registration,
one hundred thirty dollars.
8.For an interim funeral establishment permit,
twentyfive dollars.
9.For filing an annual trust report, a fee of not
more than two hundred dollars.
10.For filing a late or incomplete annual trust
report, a penalty of not more than two hundred dollars.
F.The board may establish and collect a fee for
intern trainees in an amount to be determined by the board.END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 32-1334, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1334.Inactive status
A.A licensed embalmer,
or funeral director or cremationist
who retires from practicing embalming,
or funeral directing or cremating cremation and who is not currently practicing
embalming, or funeral directing or cremation in this state may request that
the board place the person's license on inactive status.The person
shall submit the request on a form prescribed by the board and shall pay the
applicable fee pursuant to section 321309.
B.A person who holds an inactive license shall not
practice embalming, funeral directing or cremation in this state.
C.A person who holds an inactive license may
request that the board reactivate the person's license.If an
inactive licensee desires to reactivate a license, the inactive licensee shall
submit a completed application on a form prescribed by the board, the
applicable fee pursuant to section 321309, a completed fingerprint card
and the prescribed fingerprint background check fee.The person
shall demonstrate that he the person is of good moral
character and shall pass the applicable state laws and rules examination.END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 32-1394, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1394.Crematory requirements
A crematory that is licensed
pursuant to this article shall:
1.Maintain a retort that is operated at all times
in a sanitary and professional manner, that conforms to local building and
environmental codes and that provides protection for the health and safety of
persons in attendance at a cremation and employees of the crematory.
2.Maintain a holding facility that is secure from
access by anyone other than employees of the crematory and public officials in
the performance of their official duties, that complies with applicable public
health laws, that protects the health and safety of employees of the crematory
and that preserves the dignity of human remains in the facility.
3.Possess all equipment and supplies that are
necessary to conduct cremations in a manner that provides protection for the
health and safety of persons in attendance at a cremation and employees of the
crematory.
4.Employ and
designate a responsible cremationist who is licensed pursuant to this article
and who is trained in crematory operations to manage the daily operation of the
crematory. The responsible cremationist is responsible for the crematory
complying with the laws of this state and the rules of the board or the rules
of the department of real estate, as applicable. The crematory or the
responsible cremationist shall designate a licensed cremationist to act as an
interim responsible cremationist. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Repeal
Sections 32-1394.01
and 32-1394.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.26.Section 32-1395, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1395.Application; qualifications for licensure
A.An applicant for a crematory license shall submit
a completed application on a form prescribed by the board.If the
applicant is a business entity, the entity shall direct a natural person who is
an owner of the entity to submit its application.The application
shall be subscribed under oath, shall contain the name of the responsible cremationist funeral director and shall be accompanied by
the applicable fee pursuant to section 321309 and any additional
information that the board deems necessary.A business entity that
applies for a license pursuant to this article shall submit to the board with
its application for licensure a copy of its partnership agreement, its articles
of incorporation or organization or any other organizational documents required
to be filed with the corporation commission.
B.A person who applies for a license pursuant to
this article, or if the applicant is a business entity, the owners, partners,
officers, directors and trust beneficiaries of the entity, shall:
1.Be of good moral character.
2.Submit a completed fingerprint card, criminal
history background information and a fingerprint background check fee to the
board.
C.The board or the board's designee shall inspect
the premises of a crematory and investigate the character and other
qualifications of all applicants for licensure pursuant to this article to
determine whether the crematory and the applicants are in compliance with the
requirements of this article and rules adopted by the board.
D.If the board finds that the applicant meets the
criteria for licensure under this article and rules adopted by the board, the
board shall issue a crematory license.END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 32-1396.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1396.01.Display of license
A crematory shall display its license and the responsible cremationist's funeral director's license at the crematory
to which the license was issued in a location that enables any member of the
public who enters the crematory to observe and read the license.END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 32-1399, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1399.Crematories; standards of practice
The board shall adopt rules that establish standards equivalent
to section 321307, subsection A, paragraph 5 for the regulation of
crematories and cremation and that include the following:
1.A crematory shall develop, implement and maintain
a written procedure for the identification of human remains that ensures that
remains can be identified from the time that a crematory accepts the delivery
of the remains until the cremated remains are released to the authorizing agent.
The identification procedures shall require the crematory to comply with the
requirements of this section.The crematory shall not open a
container containing human remains, except under the personal supervision of a licensed funeral director, or embalmer, or a responsible cremationist who is licensed pursuant to this article chapter and trained in crematory operations to
manage the daily operation of the crematory.After taking custody of
human remains, a crematory shall immediately verify the identification attached
to the casket or cremation container and assign an identification number. The
crematory shall not accept unidentified caskets or cremation
containers.The identification shall include the name and address of
the deceased, the name and relationship of the authorizing agent, the name of
the person or entity engaging the crematory services, a valid cremation permit
issued by a government agency and a metal cremation disk containing the
identification number. The disk shall be placed with the deceased during
cremation.
2.If a crematory is unable to cremate the human
remains immediately after taking custody, the crematory shall store the remains
in a holding facility that is secure from access by anyone other than employees
of the crematory and public officials in the performance of their duty and that
complies with applicable public health laws, preserves the dignity of the human
remains and protects the health of employees of the crematory.
3.A crematory shall not accept a casket or
cremation container from which there is evidence of leakage of body fluids from
the human remains and shall not hold human remains for cremation unless they
are contained in an individual, closed casket or rigid cremation container of
combustible material that preserves the dignity of the human remains and that
protects the health of employees of the crematory.Human remains
that are not embalmed shall be held by the crematory in a refrigerated holding
facility or in compliance with applicable public health laws.
4.All body prostheses, bridgework or similar items
removed from the cremated remains shall be disposed of by the crematory unless
an alternative disposition is agreed to in the authorization to cremate.
5.After cremation, the crematory as far as
practicable shall remove visible parts of the residual of the cremation process
from the retort, shall not combine the cremated or processed remains with other
cremated or processed remains and shall attach the identification of the
cremated or processed remains to the temporary container or urn into which the
remains are placed.
6.The crematory shall place cremated or processed
remains in a temporary container or urn.Extra space may be filled
with clean packing material that will not combine with the cremated or
processed remains. The lid or top shall be securely closed.Any
cremated or processed remains that do not fit in the temporary container or urn
shall be returned in a separate container or, with permission of the
authorizing agent, disposed of by the crematory.
7.A crematory may dispose of cremated or processed
remains in any legal manner directed by a document prepared pursuant to section
321365.01 or agreed to by the authorizing agent.If the
authorizing agent agrees to take possession and does not take possession of the
remains within thirty days after cremation or on an agreed date, the crematory
shall send written notice to the last known address of the authorizing agent to
take possession.Ninety days after the notification is sent or
delivered, the crematory may dispose of the cremated or processed remains in
any legal manner.
8.Unless the deceased has prepared a document
pursuant to section 321365.01, the crematory shall obtain an
authorization to cremate from the authorizing agent thatshall contain a
provision holding the crematory harmless for the disposition of unclaimed
cremated or processed remains.
9.All employees of the crematory who handle dead
human bodies shall use universal precautions and shall otherwise exercise reasonable
care to minimize the risk of transmitting any communicable disease from a dead
human body.
10.Unless the deceased has prepared a document
pursuant to section 321365.01, employees of the crematory shall not
remove a dead human body from the container in which it is delivered to the
crematory without the express written consent of the authorizing
agent.If, after accepting a dead human body for cremation,
employees of a crematory discover that a mechanical or radioactive device is implanted
in the body, an embalmer licensed pursuant to article 2 of this chapter shall
remove the device from the body before cremation takes place.
11.A crematory shall keep an accurate record of all
cremations performed, including dispositions of cremated and processed remains,
for not fewer than five years after the cremation. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 32-1921, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1921.Exempted acts; exemption from registration fees;
definition
A.This chapter does not prevent:
1.The prescription and dispensing of drugs or
prescription medications by a registered nurse practitioner pursuant to rules
adopted by the arizona state board
of nursing in consultation with the Arizona medical board, the board of
osteopathic examiners in medicine and surgery and the board of pharmacy.
2.The sale of nonprescription drugs that are sold
at retail in original packages by a person holding a permit issued by the board
under this chapter.
3.The sale of drugs at wholesale by a wholesaler or
manufacturer that holds the required permit issued by the board to a person who
holds the required permit issued under this chapter.
4.The manufacturing of drugs by a person who is not
a pharmacist and who holds the required permit issued by the board under this
chapter.
5.The following health professionals from
dispensing or personally administering drugs or devices to a patient for a
condition being treated by the health professional:
(a)A doctor of medicine licensed pursuant to
chapter 13 of this title.
(b)An osteopathic physician licensed pursuant to
chapter 17 of this title.
(c)A homeopathic physician licensed pursuant to
chapter 29 of this title.
(d)A podiatrist licensed pursuant to chapter 7 of
this title.
(e)A dentist licensed pursuant to chapter 11 of
this title.
(f)A doctor of naturopathic medicine who is
authorized to prescribe natural substances, drugs or devices and who is licensed
pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
(g)An optometrist who is licensed pursuant to
chapter 16 of this title and who is certified for topical or oral
pharmaceutical agents.
6.A veterinarian licensed pursuant to chapter 21 of
this title from dispensing or administering drugs to an animal or from
dispensing or administering devices to an animal being treated by the
veterinarian.
7.The use of any pesticide chemical, soil or plant
nutrient or other agricultural chemical that is a color additive solely because
of its effect in aiding, retarding or otherwise affecting directly or
indirectly the growth or other natural physiological process of produce of the
soil and thereby affecting its color whether before or after harvest.
8.A licensed practical or registered nurse employed
by a person licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title
from assisting in the delivery of drugs and devices to patients, in accordance
with chapter 7, 11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title.
9.The use of any mechanical device or vending
machine in connection with the sale of any nonprescription drug, including
proprietary and patent medicine. The board may adopt rules to prescribe
conditions under which nonprescription drugs may be dispensed pursuant to this
paragraph.
B.A person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 7,
11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title and who employs a licensed practical or
registered nurse who in the course of employment assists in the delivery of
drugs and devices is responsible for the dispensing process.
C.Pursuant to a prescription order written by a
physician for the physician's patients and dispensed by a licensed pharmacist,
a physical therapist licensed pursuant to chapter 19 of this title, or an occupational therapist licensed pursuant
to chapter 34 of this title or an
athletic trainer licensed pursuant to chapter 41 of this title
may procure, store and administer nonscheduled legend and topical antiinflammatories
and topical anesthetics for use in phonophoresis and iontophoresis procedures
and within the scope of practice of physical or occupational therapy or
athletic training.
D.A public health facility operated by this state
or a county and a qualifying community health center may dispense medication or
devices to patients at no cost without providing a written prescription if the
public health facility or the qualifying community health center meets all
storage, labeling, safety and record keeping rules adopted by the board of
pharmacy.
E.A person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 7,
11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title, who is practicing at a public health
facility or a qualifying community health center and who is involved in the
dispensing of medication or devices only at a facility or center, whether for a
charge or at no cost, shall register to dispense with the appropriate licensing
board but is exempt from paying registration fees.
F.For the purposes of this section,
"qualifying community health center" means a primary care clinic that
is recognized as nonprofit under section 501(c)(3) of the United States
internal revenue code and whose board of directors includes patients of the
center and residents of the center's service area. END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 32-2352, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2352.Enforcement; contract with private entity
A.The director, subject to title 41, chapter 6,
shall adopt such rules concerning the administration and enforcement of this
chapter as are necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter and to protect
the public. The director or the director's authorized representative shall
inspect the school facilities and equipment used by applicants and licensees
under this chapter and examine applicants
for instructor's licenses.
B.The director shall administer and enforce this
chapter.
C.The director may contract with a private entity
to conduct inspections pursuant to this section and to administer any rules
adopted pursuant to this section that relate to the licensure and
administration of professional driver training schools pursuant to this
chapter.The term of any contract entered into pursuant to this
subsection shall not exceed five years with a right to renew for an additional
five years.The private entity that contracts with the director
pursuant to this subsection:
1.Shall not provide professional driver training
school courses.
2.May charge a fee to each person who enrolls in a
professional driver training school. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Repeal
Section 32-2372, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.32.Section 32-2373, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2373.Refusal to issue or renew license of school or agent 
A.The director may refuse to issue or renew the
license for a school or an agent or
instructor in any case where
in which the director
determines that the licensee or applicant has not complied with, or has
knowingly violated, any provision of this chapter or any rule adopted pursuant
to this chapter by the director.
B.An applicant or licensee who is aggrieved by the
director's decision may make a written request to the department for a hearing
within thirty days after service of notice of the refusal.If the
applicant or licensee does not request a hearing within thirty days, the
decision is final. If the applicant or licensee requests a hearing, the
director shall give written notice to the applicant or licensee to appear at
the hearing and show cause why the refusal to issue or renew the license should
not be upheld. After consideration of the evidence presented at the hearing,
the director shall serve notice in writing to the applicant or licensee of the
director's findings and order. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 32-2374, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2374.Fees
Except as provided in section 32-4301, all licenses expire on
the last day of the calendar year and may be renewed upon on
application to the director as prescribed by
rule.Each application for an original or renewal license to operate
a professional driver training school shall be accompanied by a fee of two
hundred dollars.Each application for an original or renewal agent's
or instructor's license
shall be accompanied by a fee of ten dollars.An application for a
branch license shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty dollars. No license fee
may be refunded in the event a license is suspended or revoked. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section 32-2391, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2391.Suspension and revocation of license; determination;
appeal
The director, after conducting a hearing for the licensee, may
cancel, suspend or revoke the license of a school,
or agent or instructor
in any case where in which the director finds
that the licensee has not complied with, or has knowingly violated, this
chapter or any rule adopted under this chapter.Each cancelled,
suspended or revoked license shall be returned to the director by the
licensee.Decisions of the director shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 32-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3101.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Applicant group" means any health
professional group or organization, any individual or any other interested
party that proposes that any health professional group not presently regulated
be regulated or that proposes to increase the scope of practice of a health
profession.
2."Certification" means a voluntary
process by which a regulatory entity grants recognition to an individual who
has met certain prerequisite qualifications specified by that regulatory entity
and who may assume or use the word "certified" in a title or
designation to perform prescribed health professional tasks.
3."Grandfather clause" means a provision
applicable to practitioners actively engaged in the regulated health profession
before the effective date of a law that exempts the practitioners from meeting
the prerequisite qualifications set forth in the law to perform prescribed
occupational tasks.
4."Health professions" means professions
regulated pursuant to chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 15.1, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1,
21, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35,
or 39 or 41 of this title, title 36, chapter 6,
article 7 or title 36, chapter 17.
5."Increase the scope of practice" means
to engage in conduct beyond the authority granted to a health profession by
law.
6."Inspection" means the periodic
examination of practitioners by a state agency in order to ascertain whether
the practitioners' occupation is being carried out in a fashion consistent with
the public health, safety and welfare.
7."Legislative committees of reference"
means joint subcommittees composed of the members of the appropriate standing
committees of the house of representatives and senate appointed pursuant to
section 412954.
8."Licensure" or "license"
means an individual, nontransferable authorization to carry on a health
activity that would otherwise be unlawful in this state in the absence of the
permission, and that is based on qualifications that include graduation from an
accredited or approved program and acceptable performance on a qualifying
examination or a series of examinations.
9."Practitioner" means an individual who
has achieved knowledge and skill by practice and who is actively engaged in a
specified health profession.
10."Public member" means an individual
who is not and never has been a member or spouse of a member of the health
profession being regulated and who does not have and never has had a material
financial interest in either the rendering of the health professional service
being regulated or an activity directly related to the profession being
regulated.
11."Registration" means the formal
notification that, before rendering services, a practitioner shall submit to a
state agency setting forth the name and address of the practitioner, the
location, nature and operation of the health activity to be practiced and, if
required by a regulatory entity, a description of the service to be provided.
12."Regulatory entity" means any board,
commission, agency or department of this state that regulates one or more
health professions in this state.
13."State agency" means any department,
board, commission or agency of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 32-3201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3201.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Health profession regulatory board"
means any board that regulates one or more health professionals in this state.
2."Health professional" means a person
who is certified or licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 15.1,
16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1, 21, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35, 39, 41 or 42 of this title, title 36, chapter 4,
article 6, title 36, chapter 6, article 7 or title 36, chapter 17.
3."Medical record
records" has the same meaning prescribed in section 122291
but does not include prescription orders. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 32-3218, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3218.Health profession regulatory boards; members; training;
definitions
A.Beginning January 1, 2015, each member of a
health profession regulatory board shall complete a twelve-hour training within
one year after the member's initial appointment to the board.Any
member of a health profession regulatory board whose initial appointment was
before January 1, 2015 has until January 1, 2016 to complete the training
required by this subsection.The training must include the subjects
of governance and administrative management, disciplinary procedures, conduct
of quasijudicial proceedings, administrative procedure and rule adoption
and licensure as they apply to the health profession regulatory board. Any
training completed by a current board member on and after January 1, 2014 on
the topics specified in this subsection may count toward the requirements of
this subsection.
B.The training of board members required by this
section may be provided by the staff of any health profession regulatory board,
the office of the attorney general, the department of administration, the
auditor general or an outside educational institution or any other provider
that is approved by the health profession regulatory board on which the member
is serving.
C.Any board action taken by a health profession
regulatory board is not subject to challenge or invalidation because a board
member has not completed the training required by this section.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Health profession regulatory board"
means any board that regulates one or more health professional professionals in this state.
2."Health professional" means a person
who is certified or licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 15.1,
16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1, 21, 25, 28, 29, 34, 35, 39, 41 or 42 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 32-4101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-4101.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Athletic illness" means an illness
that arises from, or a manifestation of an illness that occurs as a result of,
a person's participation in or preparation for games or sports or participation
in recreational activities or physical fitness activities.
2."Athletic injury" means an injury
sustained by a person as a result of that person's participation in or
preparation for games or sports or participation in recreational activities or
physical fitness activities, or any injury sustained by a person that is of the
type that occurs during participation in or preparation for games or sports or
participation in recreational activities or physical fitness activities,
regardless of the circumstances under which the injury was sustained.
3."Athletic
trainer" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
4.3."Athletic
training" includes the following performed under the direction of a
licensed physician and for which the athletic trainer has received appropriate education and
training as prescribed by the board:
(a)The prevention, recognition, examination,
evaluation, rehabilitation and management of athletic injuries.
(b)The prevention, evaluation, immediate care and
monitoring of athletic illnesses.
(c)The referral of a person receiving athletic
training services to appropriate health care professionals, as necessary.
(d)The use of heat, cold, water, light, sound,
electricity, passive or active exercise, massage, mechanical devices or any
other therapeutic modality to prevent, treat, rehabilitate or recondition
athletic injuries.
(e)The planning, administration, evaluation, and modification of
methods for prevention and risk management of athletic injuries and athletic
illnesses.
(f)Education and counseling related to all aspects
of the practice of athletic training.
(g)The use of topical pharmacological agents in
conjunction with the administration of therapeutic modalities and pursuant to a
prescription issued pursuant to the laws of this state and for which an
athletic trainer has received appropriate education and training.
5."Athletic
training student" means a student who is currently enrolled in an athletic
training education program that is accredited by an accrediting agency
recognized by the board.
6."Board"
means the board of athletic training.
7."Direct
supervision" means that the supervising athletic trainer is present in the
facility or on the campus where athletic training students are performing
services, is immediately available to assist the person being supervised in the
services being performed and maintains continued involvement in appropriate
aspects of the services being performed.
8."Direction
of a licensed physician" means direction as prescribed by the board by
rule pursuant to section 324103.
9."Licensed
physician" means a person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 13 or 17 of
this title.
10."Restricted
license" means a license on which the board places restrictions or
conditions, or both, as to the scope of practice, place of practice,
supervision of practice, duration of license status or type or condition of a
person to whom the licensee may provide services. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Repeal
Sections 32-4102,
32-4103 and 32-4104,
Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.40.Title 32, chapter 41, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 32-4102, to read:
START_STATUTE32-4102.Regulation
A person may practice
athletic training in this state if both of the following apply:
1.The
person operates under the supervision of a physician who is licensed pursuant
to chapter 13 or 17 of this title.
2.The
person is certified by a national accredited athletic training program.END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Repeal; transfer of monies
A.Section 32-4105, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
repealed.
B.All unexpended and unencumbered monies remaining
in the athletic training fund established by section 324105, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as repealed by subsection A of this section, are transferred
to the state general fund on the effective date of this section.
Sec.42.Repeal
Title 32, chapter 41,
articles 2 and 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.43.Section 34-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE34-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agent":
(a)Means any county, city or town, or officer,
board or commission of any county, city or town, and irrigation, power,
electrical, drainage, flood protection and flood control districts, tax levying
public improvement districts and county or city improvement districts.
(b)Includes any county board of supervisors and any
representative authorized by an agent to act as an agent for the purpose of
authorizing necessary change orders to previously awarded contracts in
accordance with guidelines established by rule of the agent, including the
board of supervisors.
2."Architect services" means those
professional architect services that are within the scope of architectural
practice as provided in title 32, chapter1.
3."Construction":
(a)Means the process of building, altering, repairing,
improving or demolishing any public structure or building or other public
improvements of any kind to any public real property.
(b)Does not include the routine operation, routine
repair or routine maintenance of existing facilities, structures, buildings or
real property.
4."Constructionmanageratrisk"
means a project delivery method in which:
(a)There is a separate contract for design services
and a separate contract for construction services, except that instead of a
single contract for construction services, the agent may elect separate
contracts for preconstruction services during the design phase, for
construction during the construction phase and for any other construction
services.
(b)The contract for construction services may be
entered into at the same time as the contract for design services or at a later
time.
(c)Design and construction of the project may be
either:
(i)Sequential with the entire design complete
before construction commences.
(ii)Concurrent with the design produced in two or
more phases and construction of some phases commencing before the entire design
is complete.
(d)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services and other related services may be
included.
5."Construction services" means either of
the following for constructionmanageratrisk, designbuild
and jobordercontracting project delivery methods:
(a)Construction, excluding services, through the
constructionmanageratrisk or jobordercontracting
project delivery methods.
(b)A combination of construction and, as elected by
the agent, one or more related services, such as finance services, maintenance
services, operations services, design services and preconstruction services, as
those services are authorized in the definitions of constructionmanageratrisk,
designbuild or jobordercontracting in this section.
6."Contract" means all types of agent
agreements, regardless of what they are called, for the procurement of services
pursuant to this title.
7."Contractor" means any person who has a
contract with an agent.
8."Designbidbuild" means a
project delivery method in which:
(a)There is a sequential award of two separate
contracts.
(b)The first contract is for design services.
(c)The second contract is for construction.
(d)Design and construction of the project are in
sequential phases.
(e)Finance services, maintenance services and
operations services are not included.
9."Designbuild" means a project
delivery method in which:
(a)There is a single contract for design services
and construction services, except that instead of a single contract for design
services and construction services, the agent may elect separate contracts for
preconstruction services and design services during the design phase, for
construction and design services during the construction phase and for any
other construction services.
(b)Design and construction of the project may be
either:
(i)Sequential with the entire design complete
before construction commences.
(ii)Concurrent with the design produced in two or
more phases and construction of some phases commencing before the entire design
is complete.
(c)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services and other related services may be
included.
10."Design professional" means a geologist or landscape architect or an
individual or firm that is registered by the state board of technical
registration pursuant to title 32, chapter 1 to practice architecture,
engineering, geology, landscape
architecture or land surveying or any combination of those
professions and persons employed by the registered individual or firm.
11."Design requirements":
(a)Means at a minimum the agent's written
description of the project or service to be procured, including:
(i)The required features, functions,
characteristics, qualities and properties.
(ii)The anticipated schedule, including start,
duration and completion.
(iii)The estimated budgets applicable to the
specific procurement for design and construction and, if applicable, for
operation and maintenance.
(b)May include:
(i)Drawings and other documents illustrating the
scale and relationship of the features, functions and characteristics of the
project, which shall all be prepared by a design professional who is registered
pursuant to section 32121.
(ii)Additional design information or documents that
the agent elects to include.
12."Design services" means architect
services, engineer services or landscape architect services.
13."Direct selection" means the selection
of a technical registrant without the requirement of advertising or the use of
a current register.
14."Engineer services" means those
professional engineer services that are within the scope of engineering
practice as provided in title 32, chapter1.
15."Finance services" means financing for
a construction services project.
16."Horizontal construction" means
construction of highways, roads, streets, bridges, canals, floodways, earthen
dams, landfills, light rail and airport runways, taxiways and
aprons.For the purposes of this paragraph, light rail does not
include any related rail stations, maintenance facilities or parking
facilities.
17."Jobordercontracting"
means a project delivery method in which:
(a)The contract is a requirements contract for
indefinite quantities of construction.
(b)The construction to be performed is specified in
job orders issued during the contract.
(c)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services, design services and other
related services may be included.
18."Landscape
architect services" means those professional landscape architect services
that are within the scope of landscape architectural practice as provided in
title 32, chapter 1.
19.18."Maintenance
services" means routine maintenance, repair and replacement of existing
facilities, structures, buildings or real property.
20.19."Materials":
(a)Means all property, including equipment,
supplies, printing, insurance and leases of property.
(b)Does not include land, a permanent interest in
land or real property or leasing space.
21.20."Operations
services" means routine operation of existing facilities, structures,
buildings or real property.
22.21."Person"
means any corporation, business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization or group of individuals.
23.22."Preconstruction
services" means services and other activities during the design phase.
24.23."Procurement":
(a)Means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing or
otherwise acquiring any materials, services, construction or construction
services.
(b)Includes all functions that pertain to obtaining
any materials, services, construction or construction services, including
description of requirements, selection and solicitation of sources, preparation
and award of contract and all phases of contract administration.
25.24."Public
competition" means a competitive procurement process pursuant to section
34103, subsection G that includes advertising in a public newspaper and
a qualificationbased selection process.
26.25."Services":
(a)Means the furnishing of labor, time or effort by
a contractor or subcontractor that does not involve the delivery of a specific
end product other than required reports and performance.
(b)Does not include employment agreements or
collective bargaining agreements.
27.26."Subcontractor"
means a person who contracts to perform work or render service to a contractor
or to another subcontractor as a part of a contract with an agent.
28.27."Technical
registrant" means a person who provides any of the professional services
listed in title 32, chapter 1. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Subject
to the requirements of article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona,
section 36601.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
END_STATUTE36-601.01.Smoke-free Arizona act
A.Definitions. The
following words and phrases, whenever used in this section, shall be construed
as defined in this section:
1."Employee" means any person who
performs any service on a fulltime, part-time or contracted basis
whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor or
otherwise and whether or not the person is compensated or is a volunteer.
2."Employer" means a person, business,
partnership, association, the state of Arizona and its political subdivisions,
corporations, including a municipal corporations, trust, or non-profit entity
that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
3."Enclosed area" means all space between
a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all sides by permanent or temporary
walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the floor to the
ceiling. Enclosed area includes a reasonable distance from any entrances,
windows and ventilation systems so that persons entering or leaving the
building or facility shall not be subjected to breathing tobacco smoke and so
that tobacco smoke does not enter the building or facility through entrances,
windows, ventilation systems or any other means.
4."Health care facility" means any
enclosed area utilized by any health care institution licensed according to
title 36 chapter 4, chapter 6 article 7, or chapter 17, or any health care
professional licensed according to title 32 chapters 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15,
15.1, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1, 21, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35, 39, 41, or 42. 
5."Person" means an individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, entity, association,
governmental subdivision or unit of a governmental subdivision, or a public or
private organization of any character.
6."Physically separated" means all space
between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on all sides by solid walls or
windows (exclusive of door or passageway) and independently ventilated from
smoke-free areas, so that air within permitted smoking areas does not drift or
get vented into smokefree areas.
7."Places of employment" means an
enclosed area under the control of a public or private employer that employees
normally frequent during the course of employment, including office buildings,
work areas, auditoriums, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting
rooms, classrooms, cafeterias, hallways, stairs, elevators, health care
facilities, private offices and vehicles owned and operated by the employer
during working hours when the vehicle is occupied by more than one person. A
private residence is not a "place
of employment"
unless it is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
8."Veteran and fraternal clubs" means a
club as defined in A.R.S. 4101(7)(a)(b)
or (c) section 4101,
paragraph 7, subdivision (a), (b) or (c).
9."Public place" means any enclosed area
to which the public is invited or in which the public is permitted, including
airports, banks, bars, common areas of apartment buildings, condominiums or
other multifamily housing facilities, educational facilities, entertainment facilities
or venues, health care facilities, hotel and motel common areas, laundromats,
public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, retail food
production and marketing establishments, retail service establishments, retail
stores, shopping malls, sports facilities, theaters, and waiting rooms. A private residence
is not a "public
place" unless it
is used as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
10."Retail tobacco store" means a retail
store that derives the majority of its sales from tobacco products and
accessories.
11."Smoking" means inhaling, exhaling,
burning, or carrying
or possessing any lighted tobacco product, including cigars, cigarettes, pipe
tobacco and any other lighted tobacco product.
12."Sports facilities" means enclosed
areas of sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, billiard halls, bowling alleys, and other
similar places where members of the general public assemble to engage in
physical exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sporting
events.
B.Smoking is prohibited in all public places and
places of employment within the state of Arizona, except the following:
1.Private residences, except when used as a licensed
child care, adult day care,
or health care facility.
2.Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests
and are designated as smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than
fifty percent of rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel are so designated.
3.Retail tobacco stores that are physically
separated so that smoke from retail tobacco stores does not infiltrate into
areas where smoking is prohibited under the
provisions of this section.
4.Veterans and fraternal clubs when they are not open
to the general public.
5.Smoking when associated with a religious ceremony
practiced pursuant to the American Indian religious freedom act of 1978.
6.Outdoor patios so long as tobacco smoke does not
enter areas where smoking is prohibited through entrances, windows, ventilation
systems, or other means.
7.A theatrical performance upon on
a stage or in the course of a film or television production if
the smoking is part of the performance or production.
C.The prohibition on smoking in places of employment
shall be communicated to all existing employees by the effective date of this
section and to all prospective employees upon
on their application for
employment.
D.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, an owner, operator, manager,
or other person or entity in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a nonsmoking place. 
E.Posting of signs and ashtray removal.
1."No smoking" signs or the international
"no smoking" symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a
burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be
clearly and conspicuously posted by the owner, operator, manager, or other
person in control of that place identifying where smoking is prohibited by this
section and where complaints regarding violations may be registered.
2.Every public place and place of employment where
smoking is prohibited by this section shall have posted at every entrance a
conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
3.All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where
smoking is prohibited by this section by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having
control of the area.
F.No employer may discharge or retaliate against an
employee because that employee exercises any rights afforded by this section or
reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this section.
G.The law shall be implemented and enforced by the
department of health services as follows:
1.The department shall design and implement a
program, including the establishment of an internet website, to educate the
public regarding the provisions of
this law section.
2.The department shall inform persons who own,
manage, operate or otherwise control a public place or place of employment of
the requirements of this law section and how to comply with
its provisions, including
making information available and providing a toll-free telephone number and
e-mail address to be used exclusively for this purpose.
3.Any member of the public may report a violation
of this law section to the department. The department
shall accept oral and written reports of violation and establish an e-mail
address(es) and tollfree telephone number(s) to be used exclusively for
the purpose of reporting violations. A person shall not be required to
disclose the person's identity when reporting a violation.
4.If the department has reason to believe a
violation of this law exists, the department may enter upon on
and into any public place or place of employment for purposes of
determining compliance with this law. However, the department may inspect
public places where food or alcohol is served at any time to determine
compliance with this law.
5.If the department determines that a violation of
this law exists at a public place or place of employment, the department shall
issue a notice of violation to the person who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls the public place or place of employment. The notice shall
include the nature of each violation, date and time each violation occurred,
and department contact person.
6.The department shall impose a civil penalty on
the person in an amount of not less than $100, but not more than $500 for each
violation. In considering whether to impose a fine and the amount of the fine,
the department may consider whether the person has been cited previously and
what efforts the person has taken to prevent or cure the violation including
reporting the violation or taking action under subsection J of this section. Each day that a violation
occurs constitutes a separate violation. The director may issue a notice that
includes the proposed amount of the civil penalty assessment. A person may
appeal the assessment of a civil penalty by requesting a hearing.If
a person requests a hearing to appeal an assessment, the director shall not
take further action to enforce and collect the assessment until the hearing
process is complete. The director shall impose a civil penalty only for those
days on which the violation has been documented by the department.
7.If a civil penalty imposed by this section is not
paid, the attorney general or a county attorney shall file an action to collect
the civil penalty in a justice court or the superior court in the county in
which the violation occurred.
8. The department may apply for injunctive relief to enforce
these provisions in the superior court in the county in which the violation
occurred. The court may impose appropriate injunctive relief and impose a
penalty of not less than $100 but not more than $500 for each
violation.Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.If the superior court finds the violations are willful or
evidence a pattern of noncompliance, the court may impose a fine up to $5000
per violation.
9.The department may contract with a third party to
determine compliance with this law.
10.The department may delegate to a state agency or
political subdivision of this state any functions, powers or duties under this
law.
11.The director of the department may promulgate
rules for the implementation and enforcement of this law. The department is
exempt from the rulemaking procedures in A.R.S.
 title 41, chapter 6 except the department shall publish draft
rules and thereafter take public input including hold at least two public
hearings prior to implementing the rules.This exemption expires May
1, 2007.
H.Beginning on June 1, 2008 and every other June 1
thereafter, the director of the Arizona department of health services shall
issue a report analyzing its activities to enforce this law, including the
activities of all of the state agencies or political subdivisions to whom the
department has delegated responsibility under this law.
I.An owner, manager, operator or employee of a place regulated by this law
shall inform any person who is smoking in violation of this law that smoking is
illegal and request that the illegal smoking stop immediately. 
J.This law does not create any new private right of
action nor does it extinguish any existing common law causes of action.
K.A person who smokes where smoking is prohibited
is guilty of a petty offense with a fine of not less than fifty dollars and not
more than three hundred dollars.
L.Smokefree Arizona fund.
1.The smoke-free Arizona fund is established
consisting of all revenues deposited in the fund pursuant to 42-3251.02 section 423251.02 and interest earned
on those monies. The Arizona
department of health services shall administer the fund. On notice from the
department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by 35-313 section 35313, and
monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
2.All money in the smoke-free Arizona fund shall be
used to enforce the provisions of this section provided however that if there
is money remaining after the department has met its enforcement obligations,
that remaining money shall be deposited in the tobacco products tax fund and
used for education programs to reduce and eliminate tobacco use and for no
other purpose.
3.Monies in this fund are continuously
appropriated, are not subject to further approval, do not revert to the general
fund and are exempt from the provisions of 36-190 section
35-190 relating to the lapsing of appropriations.
M.This section does not prevent a political
subdivision of the state from adopting ordinances or regulations that are more
restrictive than this section nor does this section repeal any existing
ordinance or regulation that is more restrictive than this section.
N.Tribal sovereignty - this section has no
application on Indian reservations as defined in ARS 42-3301(2) section 423301. START_STATUTE
Sec.45.Section 41-619.51, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-619.51.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency" means the supreme court, the
department of economic security, the department of child safety, the department
of education, the department of health services, the department of juvenile
corrections, the department of emergency and military affairs, the department
of transportation, the state real estate department, the state board of appraisal department of financial institutions, the
Arizona game and fish department,
or the board of examiners
of nursing care institution administrators and assisted living facility
managers or the state board of dental
examiners.
2."Board" means the board of
fingerprinting.
3."Central registry exception" means
notification to the department of economic security, the department of child
safety or the department of health services, as appropriate, pursuant to section
41619.57 that the person is not disqualified because of a central
registry check conducted pursuant to section 8804.
4."Expedited review" means an
examination, in accordance with board rule, of the documents an applicant
submits by the board or its hearing officer without the applicant being
present.
5."Good cause exception" means the
issuance of a fingerprint clearance card to an employee pursuant to section 41619.55.
6."Person" means a person who is required
to be fingerprinted pursuant to this article or who is subject to a central
registry check and any of the following:
(a)Section 8105.
(b)Section 8322.
(c)Section 8463.
(d)Section 8509.
(e)Section 8802.
(f)Section 8804.
(g)Section 15183.
(h)Section 15503.
(i)Section 15512.
(j)Section 15534.
(k)Section 15763.01.
(l)Section 15782.02.
(m)Section 151330.
(n)Section 151881.
(o)Section 17215.
(p)Section 283413.
(q)Section 321232.
(r)Section 32-1284.
(s)Section 32-1297.01.
(r)(t)Section 322108.01.
(s)(u)Section 322123.
(t)(v)Section 322371.
(u)Section 322372.
(v)(w)Section 323620.
(w)(x)Section 323668.
(x)(y)Section 323669.
(y)(z)Section 36207.
(z)(aa)Section 36411.
(aa)(bb)Section 36425.03.
(bb)(cc)Section 36446.04.
(cc)(dd)Section 36594.01.
(dd)(ee)Section 36594.02.
(ee)(ff)Section 36882.
(ff)(gg)Section 36883.02.
(gg)(hh)Section 36897.01.
(hh)(ii)Section 36897.03.
(ii)(jj)Section 363008.
(jj)(kk)Section 41619.53.
(kk)(ll)Section 411964.
(ll)(mm)Section 411967.01.
(mm)(nn)Section 411968.
(nn)(oo)Section 411969.
(oo)(pp)Section 412814.
(pp)(qq)Section 46141, subsection
A.
(qq)(rr)Section 46321. END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 41-1092, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrative law judge" means an
individual or an agency head, board or commission that sits as an
administrative law judge, that conducts administrative hearings in a contested
case or an appealable agency action and that makes decisions regarding the contested
case or appealable agency action.
2."Administrative law judge decision"
means the findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations or decisions
issued by an administrative law judge.
3."Appealable agency action" means an
action that determines the legal rights, duties or privileges of a party and
that is not a contested case.Appealable agency actions do not
include interim orders by selfsupporting regulatory boards, rules,
orders, standards or statements of policy of general application issued by an
administrative agency to implement, interpret or make specific the legislation
enforced or administered by it or clarifications of interpretation, nor does it
mean or include rules concerning the internal management of the agency that do
not affect private rights or interests. For the purposes of this paragraph,
administrative hearing does not include a public hearing held for the purpose
of receiving public comment on a proposed agency action.
4."Director" means the director of the
office of administrative hearings.
5."Final administrative decision" means a
decision by an agency that is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12,
chapter 7, article 6.
6."Office" means the office of
administrative hearings.
7."Selfsupporting regulatory
board" means any one of the following:
(a)The Arizona state board of accountancy.
(b)The state board of appraisal.
(c)The board of barbers.
(d)The board of behavioral health examiners.
(e)The Arizona state boxing and mixed martial arts
commission.
(f)The state board of chiropractic examiners.
(g)The board of cosmetology.
(h)The state board of dental examiners.
(i)The state board of funeral directors and
embalmers.
(j)The Arizona game and fish commission.
(k)The board of homeopathic and integrated medicine
examiners.
(l)The Arizona medical board.
(m)The naturopathic physicians medical board.
(n)The state board of nursing.
(o)The board of examiners of nursing care
institution administrators and adult care home managers.
(p)The board of occupational therapy examiners.
(q)The state board of dispensing opticians.
(r)The state board of optometry.
(s)The Arizona board of osteopathic examiners in
medicine and surgery.
(t)The Arizona peace officer standards and training
board.
(u)The Arizona state board of pharmacy.
(v)The board of physical therapy.
(w)The state board of podiatry examiners.
(x)The state board for private postsecondary
education.
(y)The state board of psychologist examiners.
(z)The board of respiratory care examiners.
(aa)The office of pest management.
(bb)The state board of technical registration.
(cc)The Arizona state veterinary medical examining
board.
(dd)The acupuncture board of examiners.
(ee)The Arizona regulatory board of physician assistants.
(ff)The board
of athletic training.
(gg)(ff)The board of massage therapy. END_STATUTE
Sec.47.Section 41-1758, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1758.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Agency"
means the supreme court, the department of economic security, the department of
child safety, the department of education, the department of health services,
the department of juvenile corrections, the department of emergency and
military affairs, the department of transportation, the state real estate
department, the state board of appraisal department of financial institutions,
the board of fingerprinting, the Arizona game and fish department, or the board of examiners of nursing care
institution administrators and assisted living facility managers or the state board of dental examiners.
2."Division"
means the fingerprinting division in the department of public safety.
3."Electronic or
internet-based fingerprinting services" means a secure system for
digitizing applicant fingerprints and transmitting the applicant data and
fingerprints of a person or entity submitting fingerprints to the department of
public safety for any authorized purpose under this title. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "secure system" means a system that complies with the
information technology security policy approved by the department of public
safety.
4."Good cause
exception" means the issuance of a fingerprint clearance card to an
applicant pursuant to section 41619.55.
5."Person"
means a person who is required to be fingerprinted pursuant to any of the
following:
(a)Section 8105.
(b)Section 8322.
(c)Section 8463.
(d)Section 8509.
(e)Section 8802.
(f)Section 15183.
(g)Section 15503.
(h)Section 15512.
(i)Section 15534.
(j)Section 15763.01.
(k)Section 15782.02.
(l)Section 151330.
(m)Section 151881.
(n)Section
17215.
(o)Section 28-3413.
(p)Section 321232.
(q)Section 32-1284.
(r)Section 32-1297.01.
(q)(s)Section 322108.01.
(r)(t)Section 322123.
(s)(u)Section 322371.
(t)Section 322372.
(u)(v)Section 323620.
(v)(w)Section 323668.
(w)(x)Section 323669.
(x)(y)Section 36207.
(y)(z)Section 36411.
(z)(aa)Section 36425.03.
(aa)(bb)Section 36446.04.
(bb)(cc)Section 36594.01.
(cc)(dd)Section 36594.02.
(dd)(ee)Section 36882.
(ee)(ff)Section 36883.02.
(ff)(gg)Section 36897.01.
(gg)(hh)Section 36897.03.
(hh)(ii)Section 363008.
(ii)(jj)Section 41619.52.
(jj)(kk)Section 41619.53.
(kk)(ll)Section 411964.
(ll)(mm)Section 411967.01.
(mm)(nn)Section 411968.
(nn)(oo)Section 411969.
(oo)(pp)Section 412814.
(pp)(qq)Section 46141,
subsection A.
(qq)(rr)Section 46321.
6."Vulnerable
adult" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133623. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Section 41-1758.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1758.01.Fingerprinting division; powers and duties
A.The fingerprinting
division is established in the department of public safety and shall:
1.Conduct fingerprint
background checks for persons and applicants who are seeking licenses from
state agencies, employment with licensees, contract providers and state
agencies or employment or educational opportunities with agencies that require
fingerprint background checks pursuant to sections 8105, 8322, 8463,
8509, 8802, 15183, 15503, 15512, 15534,
15763.01, 15782.02, 151330, 151881, 17215,
283413, 321232, 32-1284,
32-1297.01, 322108.01, 322123, 322371, 322372, 323620, 323668,
323669, 36207, 36411, 36425.03, 36446.04, 36594.01,
36594.02, 36882, 36883.02, 36897.01, 36897.03,
363008, 41619.52, 41619.53, 411964, 411967.01,
411968, 411969 and 412814, section 46141,
subsection A and section 46321.
2.Issue fingerprint
clearance cards. On issuance, a fingerprint clearance card becomes the
personal property of the cardholder and the cardholder shall retain possession
of the fingerprint clearance card.
3.On submission of an
application for a fingerprint clearance card, collect the fees established by
the board of fingerprinting pursuant to section 41619.53 and deposit,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, the monies collected in the
board of fingerprinting fund.
4.Inform in writing
each person who submits fingerprints for a fingerprint background check of the
right to petition the board of fingerprinting for a good cause exception
pursuant to section 411758.03, 411758.04 or 411758.07.
5.If after conducting a
state and federal criminal history records check the division determines that
it is not authorized to issue a fingerprint clearance card to a person, inform
the person in writing that the division is not authorized to issue a
fingerprint clearance card. The notice shall include the criminal history
information on which the denial was based.This criminal history
information is subject to dissemination restrictions pursuant to section 411750
and Public Law 92544.
6.Notify the person in
writing if the division suspends, revokes or places a driving restriction
notation on a fingerprint clearance card pursuant to section 411758.04.The
notice shall include the criminal history information on which the suspension,
revocation or placement of the driving restriction notation was based.This
criminal history information is subject to dissemination restrictions pursuant
to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.
7.Administer and
enforce this article.
B.The fingerprinting
division may contract for electronic or internetbased fingerprinting
services through an entity or entities for the acquisition and transmission of
applicant fingerprint and data submissions to the department, including
identity verified fingerprints pursuant to section 15106.The
entity or entities contracted by the department of public safety may charge the
applicant a fee for services provided pursuant to this article.The
entity or entities contracted by the department of public safety shall comply
with:
1.All information
privacy and security measures and submission standards established by the
department of public safety.
2.The information
technology security policy approved by the department of public safety. END_STATUTE
Sec.49.Section 41-2503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2503.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Architect services" means those
professional architect services that are within the scope of architectural
practice as provided in title 32, chapter 1.
2."Business" means any corporation,
partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint
venture or other private legal entity.
3."Change order"
means a written order that is signed by a procurement officer and that directs
the contractor to make changes that the changes clause of the contract
authorizes the procurement officer to order.
4."Construction":
(a)Means the process of building, altering,
repairing, improving or demolishing any public structure or building or other
public improvements of any kind to any public real property.
(b)Does not include:
(i)The routine operation, routine repair or routine
maintenance of existing facilities, structures, buildings or real property.
(ii)The investigation, characterization,
restoration or remediation due to an environmental issue of existing
facilities, structures, buildings or real property.
5."Constructionmanageratrisk"
means a project delivery method in which:
(a)There is a separate contract for design services
and a separate contract for construction services, except that instead of a
single contract for construction services, the purchasing agency may elect
separate contracts for preconstruction services during the design phase, for
construction during the construction phase and for any other construction
services.
(b)The contract for construction services may be
entered into at the same time as the contract for design services or at a later
time.
(c)Design and construction of the project may be
either:
(i)Sequential with the entire design complete
before construction commences.
(ii)Concurrent with the design produced in two or
more phases and construction of some phases commencing before the entire design
is complete.
(d)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services and other related services may be
included.
6."Construction services" means either of
the following for constructionmanageratrisk, designbuild
and jobordercontracting project delivery methods:
(a)Construction, excluding services, through the
constructionmanageratrisk or jobordercontracting
project delivery methods.
(b)A combination of construction and, as elected by
the purchasing agency, one or more related services, such as finance services,
maintenance services, operations services, design services and preconstruction
services, as those services are authorized in the definitions of constructionmanageratrisk,
designbuild or jobordercontracting in this section.
7."Contract" means all types of state
agreements, regardless of what they may be called, for the procurement of
materials, services, construction, construction services or the disposal of
materials.
8."Contract modification" means any
written alteration in the terms and conditions of any contract accomplished by
mutual action of the parties to the contract.
9."Contractor" means any person who has a
contract with a state governmental unit.
10."Data" means documented information,
regardless of form or characteristic.
11."Department" means the department of
administration.
12."Designbidbuild" means a
project delivery method in which:
(a)There is a sequential award of two separate
contracts.
(b)The first contract is for design services.
(c)The second contract is for construction.
(d)Design and construction of the project are in
sequential phases.
(e)Finance services, maintenance services and
operations services are not included.
13."Designbuild" means a project
delivery method in which:
(a)There is a single contract for design services
and construction services, except that instead of a single contract for design
services and construction services, the purchasing agency may elect separate contracts
for preconstruction services and design services during the design phase, for
construction and design services during the construction phase and for any
other construction services.
(b)Design and construction of the project may be
either:
(i)Sequential with the entire design complete
before construction commences.
(ii)Concurrent with the design produced in two or
more phases and construction of some phases commencing before the entire design
is complete.
(c)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services and other related services may be
included.
14."Design professional" means a geologist or landscape architect or an
individual or firm that is registered by the state board of technical
registration pursuant to title 32, chapter 1 to practice architecture,
engineering, geology, landscape
architecture or land surveying or any combination of those
professions and any person employed by the registered individual or firm.
15."Design requirements":
(a)Means at a minimum the purchasing agency's
written description of the project or service to be procured, including:
(i)The required features, functions,
characteristics, qualities and properties.
(ii)The anticipated schedule, including start,
duration and completion.
(iii)The estimated budgets applicable to the
specific procurement for design and construction and, if applicable, for
operation and maintenance.
(b)May include:
(i)Drawings and other documents illustrating the
scale and relationship of the features, functions and characteristics of the
project, which shall all be prepared by a design professional who is registered
pursuant to section 32121.
(ii)Additional design information or documents that
the purchasing agency elects to include.
16."Design services" means architect
services, engineer services or landscape architect services.
17."Designee" means a duly authorized
representative of the director.
18."Director" means the director of the
department of administration.
19."Employee" means an individual drawing
a salary from a state governmental unit, whether elected or not, and any
noncompensated individual performing personal services for any state
governmental unit.
20."Engineer services" means those
professional engineer services that are within the scope of engineering
practice as provided in title 32, chapter1.
21."Finance services" means financing for
a construction services project.
22."General services administration
contract" means contracts awarded by the United States government general
services administration.
23."Grant" means the furnishing of
financial or other assistance, including state funds or federal grant funds, by
any state governmental unit to any person for the purpose of supporting or
stimulating educational, cultural, social or economic quality of life.
24."Jobordercontracting"
means a project delivery method in which:
(a)The contract is a requirements contract for
indefinite quantities of construction.
(b)The construction to be performed is specified in
job orders issued during the contract.
(c)Finance services, maintenance services,
operations services, preconstruction services, design services and other
related services may be included.
25."Landscape
architect services" means those professional landscape architect services
that are within the scope of landscape architectural practice as provided in
title 32, chapter 1.
26.25."Maintenance
services" means routine maintenance, repair and replacement of existing
facilities, structures, buildings or real property.
27.26."Materials":
(a)Means all property, including equipment,
supplies, printing, insurance and leases of property.
(b)Does not include land, a permanent interest in
land or real property or leasing space.
28.27."Operations
services" means routine operation of existing facilities, structures,
buildings or real property.
29.28."Owner"
means a state purchasing agency or state governmental unit.
30.29."Person"
means any corporation, business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization or group of individuals.
31.30."Preconstruction
services" means services and other activities during the design phase.
32.31."Procurement":
(a)Means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing or
otherwise acquiring any materials, services, construction or construction
services.
(b)Includes all functions that pertain to obtaining
any materials, services, construction or construction services, including
description of requirements, selection and solicitation of sources, preparation
and award of contract, and all phases of contract administration.
33.32."Procurement
officer":
(a)Means any person duly authorized to enter into
and administer contracts and make written determinations with respect to the
contracts.
(b)Includes an authorized representative acting
within the limits of the authorized representative's authority.
34.33."Purchasing
agency" means any state governmental unit that is authorized by this
chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, or by way of delegation from
the director, to enter into contracts.
35.34."Services":
(a)Means the furnishing of labor, time or effort by
a contractor or subcontractor that does not involve the delivery of a specific
end product other than required reports and performance.
(b)Does not include employment agreements or
collective bargaining agreements.
36.35."Significant
procurement role":
(a)Means any role that includes any of the
following duties:
(i)Participating in the development of a procurement.
(ii)Participating in the development of an
evaluation tool.
(iii)Approving a
procurement or an evaluation tool.
(iv)Soliciting quotes greater than ten thousand
dollars for the provision of materials, services or construction.
(v)Serving as a technical advisor or an evaluator
who evaluates a procurement.
(vi)Recommending or selecting a vendor that will
provide materials, services or construction to this state.
(vii)Serving as a decision maker decisionmaker or designee on a protest
or an appeal by a party regarding an agency procurement selection or decision.
(b)Does not include making decisions on developing
specifications and the scope of work for a procurement if the decision is based
on the application of commonly accepted industry standards or known published
standards of the agency as applied to the project, services, goods or
materials.
37.36."State
governmental unit" means any department, commission, council, board,
bureau, committee, institution, agency, government corporation or other
establishment or official of the executive branch or corporation commission of
this state.
38.37."Subcontractor"
means a person who contracts to perform work or render service to a contractor
or to another subcontractor as a part of a contract with a state governmental
unit.
39.38."Using
agency" means any state governmental unit that uses any materials,
services or construction procured under this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.50.Section 41-2571, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2571.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Architect services", "engineer
services", and "land surveying services", "assayer services", "geologist
services" and "landscape architect services" means
those professional services within the scope of the practice of those services
as provided in title 32, chapter 1, article 1.
2."Cost" means the aggregate cost of all
materials and services, including labor performed by force account.
3."Design professional service contract"
means a written agreement relating to the planning, design, construction
administration, study, evaluation, consulting, inspection, surveying, mapping,
material sampling, testing or other professional, scientific or technical
services furnished in connection with any actual or proposed study, planning,
survey, environmental remediation, construction, improvement, alteration,
repair, maintenance, relocation, moving, demolition or excavation of a
structure, street or roadway, appurtenance, facility or development or other
improvement to land.
4."Design professional services" means
architect services, engineer services, land surveying services, geologist
services or landscape architect services or any combination of those services
performed by or under the supervision of a design professional or employees or
subconsultants of the design professional.
5."Subconsultant" means any person, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or other organization, or a combination
of any of them, that has a direct contract with a design professional or
another subconsultant to perform a portion of the work under a design
professional service contract.
END_STATUTE
Sec.51.Repeal
Section 41-3020.07,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.52.Section 42-5075, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5075.Prime contracting classification; exemptions; definitions
A.The prime contracting classification is comprised
of the business of prime contracting and the business of manufactured building
dealer.Sales for resale to another manufactured building dealer are
not subject to tax.Sales for resale do not include sales to a
lessor of manufactured buildings.The sale of a used manufactured
building is not taxable under this chapter.
B.The tax base for the prime contracting
classification is sixtyfive percent of the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from the business.The following amounts shall
be deducted from the gross proceeds of sales or gross income before computing
the tax base:
1.The sales price of land, which shall not exceed
the fair market value.
2.Sales and installation of groundwater measuring
devices required under section 45604 and groundwater monitoring wells
required by law, including monitoring wells installed for acquiring information
for a permit required by law.
3.The sales price of furniture, furnishings,
fixtures, appliances and attachments that are not incorporated as component
parts of or attached to a manufactured building or the setup site. The sale of
such items may be subject to the taxes imposed by article 1 of this chapter
separately and distinctly from the sale of the manufactured building.
4.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract entered into for the modification of any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured building or other structure,
project, development or improvement located in a military reuse zone for
providing aviation or aerospace services or for a manufacturer, assembler or
fabricator of aviation or aerospace products within an active military reuse
zone after the zone is initially established or renewed under section 411531.To
be eligible to qualify for this deduction, before beginning work under the
contract, the prime contractor must have applied for a letter of qualification
from the department of revenue.
5.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract to construct a qualified environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing facility, as described in section 411514.02,
and from subsequent construction and installation contracts that begin within
ten years after the start of initial construction.To qualify for
this deduction, before beginning work under the contract, the prime contractor
must obtain a letter of qualification from the department of
revenue.This paragraph shall apply for ten full consecutive
calendar or fiscal years after the start of initial construction.
6.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income from
a contract to provide for one or more of the following actions, or a contract
for site preparation, constructing, furnishing or installing machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property, including structures necessary
to protect exempt incorporated materials or installed machinery or equipment,
and tangible personal property incorporated into the project, to perform one or
more of the following actions in response to a release or suspected release of
a hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant from a facility to the
environment, unless the release was authorized by a permit issued by a
governmental authority:
(a)Actions to monitor, assess and evaluate such a
release or a suspected release.
(b)Excavation, removal and transportation of
contaminated soil and its treatment or disposal.
(c)Treatment of contaminated soil by vapor
extraction, chemical or physical stabilization, soil washing or biological
treatment to reduce the concentration, toxicity or mobility of a contaminant.
(d)Pumping and treatment or in situ treatment of
contaminated groundwater or surface water to reduce the concentration or
toxicity of a contaminant.
(e)The installation of structures, such as cutoff
walls or caps, to contain contaminants present in groundwater or soil and
prevent them from reaching a location where they could threaten human health or
welfare or the environment.
This paragraph does not include
asbestos removal or the construction or use of ancillary structures such as
maintenance sheds, offices or storage facilities for unattached equipment,
pollution control equipment, facilities or other control items required or to
be used by a person to prevent or control contamination before it reaches the
environment.
7.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from a contract for the installation, assembly, repair or
maintenance of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property that is
either deducted from the tax base of the retail classification under section 425061,
subsection B or that is exempt from use tax under section 425159, subsection
B and that has independent functional utility, pursuant to the following
provisions:
(a)The deduction provided in this paragraph
includes the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from all of the
following:
(i)Any activity performed on machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property with independent functional utility.
(ii)Any activity performed on any tangible personal
property relating to machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
with independent functional utility in furtherance of any of the purposes
provided for under subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(iii)Any activity that is related to the activities
described in items (i) and (ii) of this subdivision, including inspecting the
installation of or testing the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property.
(b)The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from the portion of any
contracting activity that consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property that is either deducted from the tax base of the retail classification
under section 425061, subsection B or exempt from use tax under section
425159, subsection B.
(c)The deduction provided in this paragraph shall
be determined without regard to the size or useful life of the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property.
(d)For the purposes of this paragraph,
"independent functional utility" means that the machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property can independently perform its function
without attachment to real property, other than attachment for any of the
following purposes:
(i)Assembling the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property.
(ii)Connecting items of machinery, equipment or
other tangible personal property to each other.
(iii)Connecting the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property, whether as an individual item or as a system of
items, to water, power, gas, communication or other services.
(iv)Stabilizing or protecting the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property during operation by bolting, burying
or performing other similar nonpermanent connections to either real property or
real property improvements.
8.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
attributable to the purchase of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property that is exempt from or deductible from transaction privilege and use
tax under:
(a)Section 425061, subsection A, paragraph
25, 29, 57 or 59.
(b)Section 425061, subsection B.
(c)Section 425159, subsection A, paragraph
13, subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (j), (k), (m) or (n) or paragraph
54 or 56.
(d)Section 425159, subsection B.
9.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract for the construction of an environmentally controlled
facility for the raising of poultry for the production of eggs and the sorting,
cooling and packaging of eggs.
10.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from a contract entered into with a person who is engaged in the
commercial production of livestock, livestock products or agricultural,
horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or products in this state
for the modification of any building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement used directly and
primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
11.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of clean
rooms that are deducted from the tax base of the retail classification pursuant
to section 425061, subsection B, paragraph 16.
12.For taxable periods beginning from and after
June 30, 2001, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a
contract entered into for the construction of a residential apartment housing
facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy for low income persons
over sixtytwo years of age and that is owned by a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
13.For taxable periods beginning from and after
December 31, 1996 and ending before January 1, 2017, the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract to provide and install a solar
energy device.The contractor shall register with the department as
a solar energy contractor. By registering, the contractor acknowledges that it
will make its books and records relating to sales of solar energy devices
available to the department for examination.
14.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a launch site, as
defined in 14 Code of Federal Regulations section 401.5.
15.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a domestic
violence shelter that is owned and operated by a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
16.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from contracts to perform postconstruction treatment of real property
for termite and general pest control, including wood destroying organisms.
17.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from contracts entered into before July 1, 2006 for constructing a
state university research infrastructure project if the project has been
reviewed by the joint committee on capital review before the university enters
into the construction contract for the project.For the purposes of
this paragraph, "research infrastructure" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 151670.
18.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract for the construction of any building, or other
structure, project, development or improvement owned by a qualified business
under section 411516 for harvesting or processing qualifying forest
products removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516
if actual construction begins before January 1, 2024. To qualify for this
deduction, the prime contractor must obtain a letter of qualification from the
Arizona commerce authority before beginning work under the contract.
19.Any amount of the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income attributable to development fees that are incurred in relation to
a contract for construction, development or improvement of real property and
that are paid by a prime contractor or subcontractor.For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(a)The attributable amount shall not exceed the
value of the development fees actually imposed.
(b)The attributable amount is equal to the total
amount of development fees paid by the prime contractor or subcontractor, and
the total development fees credited in exchange for the construction of,
contribution to or dedication of real property for providing public infrastructure,
public safety or other public services necessary to the
development.The real property must be the subject of the
development fees.
(c)"Development fees" means fees imposed
to offset capital costs of providing public infrastructure, public safety or
other public services to a development and authorized pursuant to section 9463.05,
section 111102 or title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the
fees are paid.
20.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a mixed waste
processing facility that is located on a municipal solid waste landfill and
that is constructed for the purpose of recycling solid waste or producing
renewable energy from landfill waste. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Mixed waste
processing facility" means a solid waste facility that is owned, operated
or used for the treatment, processing or disposal of solid waste, recyclable
solid waste, conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste or household
hazardous waste.For the purposes of thissubdivision,
"conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste",
"household hazardous waste" and "solid waste facility" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 49701,except that solid
waste facility does include a site that stores, treats or processes paper,
glass, wood, cardboard, household textiles, scrap metal, plastic, vegetative
waste, aluminum, steel or other recyclable material.
(b)"Municipal
solid waste landfill" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49701.
(c)"Recycling"
means collecting, separating, cleansing, treating and
reconstitutingrecyclable solid wastethat would otherwise become
solid waste, but does not include incineration or other similar processes.
(d)"Renewable
energy" has the same meaning prescribed in section 411511.
C.Entitlement to the
deduction pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 7 of this section is subject to
the following provisions:
1.A prime contractor
may establish entitlement to the deduction by both:
(a)Marking the invoice
for the transaction to indicate that the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income derived from the transaction was deducted from the base.
(b)Obtaining a
certificate executed by the purchaser indicating the name and address of the
purchaser, the precise nature of the business of the purchaser, the purpose for
which the purchase was made, the necessary facts to establish the deductibility
of the property under section 425061, subsection B, and a certification
that the person executing the certificate is authorized to do so on behalf of
the purchaser. The certificate may be disregarded if the prime contractor has
reason to believe that the information contained in the certificate is not
accurate or complete.
2.A person who does not
comply with paragraph 1 of this subsection may establish entitlement to the
deduction by presenting facts necessary to support the entitlement, but the
burden of proof is on that person.
3.The department may
prescribe a form for the certificate described in paragraph 1, subdivision (b)
of this subsection. The department may also adopt rules that describe the
transactions with respect to which a person is not entitled to rely solely on
the information contained in the certificate provided in paragraph 1,
subdivision (b) of this subsection but must instead obtain such additional
information as required in order to be entitled to the deduction.
4.If a prime contractor
is entitled to a deduction by complying with paragraph 1 of this subsection,
the department may require the purchaser who caused the execution of the
certificate to establish the accuracy and completeness of the information
required to be contained in the certificate that would entitle the prime
contractor to the deduction.If the purchaser cannot establish the
accuracy and completeness of the information, the purchaser is liable in an
amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest that the prime contractor would
have been required to pay under article 1 of this chapter if the prime contractor
had not complied with paragraph 1 of this subsection. Payment of the amount
under this paragraph exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed
under article 4 of this chapter.The amount shall be treated as a
transaction privilege tax to the purchaser and as tax revenues collected from
the prime contractor in order to designate the distribution base for purposes
of section 425029.
D.Subcontractors or
others who perform modification activities are not subject to tax if they can
demonstrate that the job was within the control of a prime contractor or
contractors or a dealership of manufactured buildings and that the prime
contractor or dealership is liable for the tax on the gross income, gross
proceeds of sales or gross receipts attributable to the job and from which the
subcontractors or others were paid.
E.Amounts received by a
contractor for a project are excluded from the contractor's gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from the business if the person who hired the
contractor executes and provides a certificate to the contractor stating that
the person providing the certificate is a prime contractor and is liable for
the tax under article 1 of this chapter. The department shall prescribe the
form of the certificate. If the contractor has reason to believe that the
information contained on the certificate is erroneous or incomplete, the
department may disregard the certificate.If the person who provides
the certificate is not liable for the tax as a prime contractor, that person is
nevertheless deemed to be the prime contractor in lieu of the contractor and is
subject to the tax under this section on the gross receipts or gross proceeds
received by the contractor.
F.Every person engaging
or continuing in this state in the business of prime contracting or dealership
of manufactured buildings shall present to the purchaser of such prime
contracting or manufactured building a written receipt of the gross income or
gross proceeds of sales from such activity and shall separately state the taxes
to be paid pursuant to this section.
G.For the purposes of
section 425032.01, the department shall separately account for revenues
collected under the prime contracting classification from any prime contractor
engaged in the preparation or construction of a multipurpose facility, and
related infrastructure, that is owned, operated or leased by the tourism and
sports authority pursuant to title 5, chapter 8.
H.For the purposes of
section 425032.02, from and after September30, 2013, the
department shall separately account for revenues reported and collected under
the prime contracting classification from any prime contractor engaged in the
construction of any buildings and associated improvements that are for the
benefit of a manufacturing facility. For the purposes of this subsection,
"associated improvements" and "manufacturing facility" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 425032.02.
I.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract for lawn maintenance services are
not subject to tax under this section if the contract does not include
landscaping activities.Lawn maintenance service is a service
pursuant to section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 1, and includes lawn
mowing and edging, weeding, repairing sprinkler heads or drip irrigation heads,
seasonal replacement of flowers, refreshing gravel, lawn dethatching,
seeding winter lawns, leaf and debris collection and removal, tree or shrub
pruning or clipping, garden and gravel raking and applying pesticides, as
defined in section 3361, and fertilizer materials, as defined in section
3262.
J.Except as provided in
subsection O of this section, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from landscaping activities are subject to tax under this section.
Landscaping includes installing lawns, grading or leveling ground, installing
gravel or boulders, planting trees and other plants, felling trees, removing or
mulching tree stumps, removing other imbedded plants, building irrigation
berms, installing railroad ties and installing underground sprinkler or
watering systems.
K.The portion of gross
proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the actual direct costs of
providing architectural or engineering services that are incorporated in a contract
is not subject to tax under this section. For the purposes of this subsection,
"direct costs" means the portion of the actual costs that are
directly expended in providing architectural or engineering services.
L.Operating a landfill
or a solid waste disposal facility is not subject to taxation under this
section, including filling, compacting and creating vehicle access to and from
cell sites within the landfill. Constructing roads to a landfill or solid waste
disposal facility and constructing cells within a landfill or solid waste
disposal facility may be deemed prime contracting under this section.
M.The following apply
in determining the taxable situs of sales of manufactured buildings:
1.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site or to perform the setup in this state, the taxable situs is the
setup site.
2.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer does not contract to deliver the
building to a setup site or does not perform the setup, the taxable situs is
the location of the dealership where the building is delivered to the buyer.
3.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site that is outside this state, the situs is outside this state and
the transaction is excluded from tax.
N.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income attributable to a written contract for design phase
services or professional services, executed before modification begins and with
terms, conditions and pricing of all of these services separately stated in the
contract from those for construction phase services, is not subject to tax
under this section, regardless of whether the services are provided sequential
to or concurrent with prime contracting activities that are subject to tax
under this section.This subsection does not include the gross
proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to construction phase
services.For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Construction
phase services" means services for the execution and completion of any
modification, including the following:
(a)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed on the project, including team
management and coordination, scheduling, cost controls, submittal process
management, field management, safety program, close-out process and warranty
period services.
(b)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to a punch list. For the
purposes of this subdivision, "punch list" means minor items of
modification work performed after substantial completion and before final
completion of the project.
(c)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to change
orders.For the purposes of this subdivision, "change
order" means a written instrument issued after execution of a contract for
modification work, providing for all of the following:
(i)The scope of a
change in the modification work, contract for modification work or other contract
documents.
(ii)The amount of an
adjustment, if any, to the guaranteed maximum price as set in the contract for
modification work. For the purposes of this item, "guaranteed maximum
price" means the amount guaranteed to be the maximum amount due to a prime
contractor for the performance of all modification work for the project.
(iii)The extent of an
adjustment, if any, to the contract time of performance set forth in the
contract.
(d)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to change directives. For
the purposes of this subdivision, "change directive" means a written
order directing a change in modification work before agreement on an adjustment
of the guaranteed maximum price or contract time.
(e)Inspection to determine
the dates of substantial completion or final completion.
(f)Preparation of any
manuals, warranties, as-built drawings, spares or other items the prime
contractor must furnish pursuant to the contract for modification work. For
the purposes of this subdivision, "as-built drawing" means a drawing
that indicates field changes made to adapt to field conditions, field changes
resulting from change orders or buried and concealed installation of piping,
conduit and utility services.
(g)Preparation of status
reports after modification work has begun detailing the progress of work
performed, including preparation of any of the following:
(i)Master schedule
updates.
(ii)Modification work
cash flow projection updates.
(iii)Site reports made
on a periodic basis.
(iv)Identification of
discrepancies, conflicts or ambiguities in modification work documents that
require resolution.
(v)Identification of
any health and safety issues that have arisen in connection with the
modification work.
(h)Preparation of daily
logs of modification work, including documentation of personnel, weather
conditions and on-site occurrences.
(i)Preparation of any
submittals or shop drawings used by the prime contractor to illustrate details
of the modification work performed.
(j)Administration or
supervision of any other activities for which a prime contractor receives a
certificate for payment or certificate for final payment based on the progress
of modification work performed on the project.
2."Design phase
services" means services for developing and completing a design for a
project that are not construction phase services, including the following:
(a)Evaluating surveys,
reports, test results or any other information on-site conditions for the
project, including physical characteristics, legal limitations and utility
locations for the site.
(b)Evaluating any
criteria or programming objectives for the project to ascertain requirements
for the project, such as physical requirements affecting cost or projected
utilization of the project.
(c)Preparing drawings
and specifications for architectural program documents, schematic design
documents, design development documents, modification work documents or
documents that identify the scope of or materials for the project.
(d)Preparing an initial
schedule for the project, excluding the preparation of updates to the master
schedule after modification work has begun.
(e)Preparing
preliminary estimates of costs of modification work before completion of the
final design of the project, including an estimate or schedule of values for
any of the following:
(i)Labor, materials,
machinery and equipment, tools, water, heat, utilities, transportation and
other facilities and services used in the execution and completion of modification
work, regardless of whether they are temporary or permanent or whether they are
incorporated in the modifications.
(ii)The cost of labor
and materials to be furnished by the owner of the real property.
(iii)The cost of any
equipment of the owner of the real property to be assigned by the owner to the
prime contractor.
(iv)The cost of any
labor for installation of equipment separately provided by the owner of the
real property that has been designed, specified, selected or specifically
provided for in any design document for the project.
(v)Any fee paid by the
owner of the real property to the prime contractor pursuant to the contract for
modification work.
(vi)Any bond and
insurance premiums.
(vii)Any applicable
taxes.
(viii)Any contingency
fees for the prime contractor that may be used before final completion of the
project.
(f)Reviewing and
evaluating cost estimates and project documents to prepare recommendations on
site use, site improvements, selection of materials, building systems and
equipment, modification feasibility, availability of materials and labor, local
modification activity as related to schedules and time requirements for
modification work.
(g)Preparing the plan
and procedures for selection of subcontractors, including any prequalification
of subcontractor candidates.
3."Professional
services" means architect services, assayer
services, engineer services,
geologist services, or land
surveying services or landscape architect
services that are within the scope of those services as provided
in title 32, chapter 1 and for which gross proceeds of sales or gross income
has not otherwise been deducted under subsection K of this section.
O.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract with the owner of real property
or improvements to real property for the maintenance, repair, replacement or
alteration of existing property is not subject to tax under this section if the
contract does not include modification activities, except as specified in this subsection.The
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a de minimis amount of
modification activity does not subject the contract or any part of the contract
to tax under this section. For the purposes of this subsection:
1.Tangible personal
property that is incorporated or fabricated into a project described in this
subsection may be subject to the amount prescribed in section 425008.01.
2.Each contract is
independent of any other contract, except that any change order that directly
relates to the scope of work of the original contract shall be treated the same
as the original contract under this chapter, regardless of the amount of
modification activities included in the change order. If a change order does
not directly relate to the scope of work of the original contract, the change
order shall be treated as a new contract, with the tax treatment of any
subsequent change order to follow the tax treatment of the contract to which
the scope of work of the subsequent change order directly relates.
P.Notwithstanding
subsection O of this section, a contract that primarily involves surface or
subsurface improvements to land and that is subject to title 28, chapter 19, 20
or 22 or title 34, chapter 2 or 6 is taxable under this section, even if the
contract also includes vertical improvements.Agencies that are
subject to procurement processes under those provisions shall include in the
request for proposals a notice to bidders when those projects are subject to
this section. This subsection does not apply to contracts with:
1.Community facilities
districts, fire districts, county television improvement districts, community
park maintenance districts, cotton pest control districts, hospital districts,
pest abatement districts, health service districts, agricultural improvement
districts, county free library districts, county jail districts, county stadium
districts, special health care districts, public health services districts,
theme park districts, regional attraction districts or revitalization
districts.
2.Any special taxing
district not specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection if the district does
not substantially engage in the modification, maintenance, repair, replacement
or alteration of surface or subsurface improvements to land.
Q.Notwithstanding
subsection R, paragraph 10 of this section, a person owning real property who
enters into a contract for sale of the real property, who is responsible to the
new owner of the property for modifications made to the property in the period
subsequent to the transfer of title and who receives a consideration for the
modifications is considered a prime contractor solely for purposes of taxing
the gross proceeds of sale or gross income received for the modifications made
subsequent to the transfer of title. The original owner's gross proceeds of
sale or gross income received for the modifications shall be determined
according to the following methodology:
1.If any part of the
contract for sale of the property specifies amounts to be paid to the original
owner for the modifications to be made in the period subsequent to the transfer
of title, the amounts are included in the original owner's gross proceeds of
sale or gross income under this section.Proceeds from the sale of
the property that are received after transfer of title and that are unrelated
to the modifications made subsequent to the transfer of title are not
considered gross proceeds of sale or gross income from the modifications.
2.If the original owner
enters into an agreement separate from the contract for sale of the real
property providing for amounts to be paid to the original owner for the
modifications to be made in the period subsequent to the transfer of title to
the property, the amounts are included in the original owner's gross proceeds
of sale or gross income received for the modifications made subsequent to the
transfer of title.
3.If the original owner
is responsible to the new owner for modifications made to the property in the
period subsequent to the transfer of title and derives any gross proceeds of
sale or gross income from the project subsequent to the transfer of title other
than a delayed disbursement from escrow unrelated to the modifications, it is
presumed that the amounts are received for the modifications made subsequent to
the transfer of title unless the contrary is established by the owner through
its books, records and papers kept in the regular course of business.
4.The tax base of the
original owner is computed in the same manner as a prime contractor under this
section.
R.For the purposes of this section:
1."Alteration" means an activity or
action that causes a direct physical change to existing property. For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(a)For existing property that is properly
classified as class two property under section 4212002, paragraph 1,
subdivision (c) or paragraph 2, subdivision (c) and that is used for
residential purposes, class three property under section 4212003 or
class four property under 4212004, this paragraph does not apply if the
contract amount is more than twenty-five percent of the most recent full cash
value established under chapter 13, article 2 of this title as of the date of
any bid for the work or the date of the contract, whichever value is higher.
(b)For all existing property other than existing
property described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, this paragraph does
not apply if any of the following is true:
(i)The contract amount is more than seven hundred
fifty thousand dollars.
(ii)The scope of work directly relates to more than
forty percent of the existing square footage of the existing property.
(iii)The scope of work involves expanding the
square footage of more than ten percent of the existing property.
(c)Project elements may not be artificially
separated from a contract to cause a project to qualify as an alteration. The
department has the burden of proof that project elements have been artificially
separated from a contract.
(d)If a project for which the owner and the person
performing the work reasonably believed, at the inception of the contract,
would be treated as an alteration under this paragraph and, on completion of
the project, the project exceeded the applicable threshold described in either
subdivision (a) or (b) of this paragraph by no more than twenty-five percent of
the applicable threshold for any reason, the work performed under the contract
qualifies as an alteration.
(e)A change order that directly relates to the
scope of work of the original contract shall be treated as part of the original
contract, and the contract amount shall include any amount attributable to a
change order that directly relates to the scope of work of the original
contract.
(f)Alteration does not include maintenance, repair
or replacement.
2."Contracting" means engaging in
business as a contractor.
3."Contractor" is synonymous with the
term "builder" and means any person or organization that undertakes
to or offers to undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to,
or submits a bid to, or does personally or by or through others, modify any
building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured building or other
structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part of such a
project, including the erection of scaffolding or other structure or works in
connection with such a project, and includes subcontractors and specialty
contractors. For all purposes of taxation or deduction, this definition shall
govern without regard to whether or not such contractor is acting in
fulfillment of a contract.
4."Manufactured building" means a
manufactured home, mobile home or factorybuilt building, as defined in
section 412142.
5."Manufactured building dealer" means a
dealer who either:
(a)Is licensed pursuant to title 41, chapter 16 and
who sells manufactured buildings to the final consumer.
(b)Supervises, performs or coordinates the
excavation and completion of site improvements or the setup or moving of a
manufactured building,
including the contracting, if any, with any subcontractor or specialty
contractor for the completion of the contract.
6."Modification"
means construction, grading and leveling ground, wreckage or demolition.
Modification does not include:
(a)Any project
described in subsection O of this section.
(b)Any wreckage or
demolition of existing property, or any other activity that is a necessary
component of a project described in subsection O of this section.
(c)Any mobilization or
demobilization related to a project described in subsection O of this section,
such as the erection or removal of temporary facilities to be used by those
persons working on the project.
7."Modify"
means to make a modification or cause a modification to be made.
8."Owner"
means the person that holds title to the real property or improvements to real
property that is the subject of the work, as well as an agent of the title
holder and any person with the authority to perform or authorize work on the
real property or improvements, including a tenant and a property manager. For
the purposes of subsection O of this section, a person who is hired by a
general contractor that is hired by an owner, or a subcontractor of a general
contractor that is hired by an owner, is considered to be hired by the owner.
9."Prime
contracting" means engaging in business as a prime contractor.
10."Prime
contractor" means a contractor who supervises, performs or coordinates the
modification of any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement, including the contracting, if any, with any
subcontractors or specialty contractors and who is responsible for the
completion of the contract.Except as provided in subsections E and
Q of this section, a person who owns real property, who engages one or more
contractors to modify that real property and who does not itself modify that
real property is not a prime contractor within the meaning of this paragraph
regardless of the existence of a contract for sale or the subsequent sale of
that real property.
11."Replacement"
means the removal from service of one component or system of existing property
or tangible personal property installed in existing property, including
machinery or equipment, and the installation of a new component or system or
new tangible personal property, including machinery or equipment, that provides
the same similar or upgraded design or functionality, regardless of the
contract amount and regardless of whether the existing component or system or
existing tangible personal property is physically removed from the existing
property.
12."Sale of a used
manufactured building" does not include a lease of a used manufactured
building. END_STATUTE
Sec.53.Section 45-454, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-454.Exemption of small non-irrigation wells; definitions
A.Withdrawals of groundwater for non-irrigation uses
from wells having a pump with a maximum capacity of not more than thirtyfive
gallons per minute which were drilled before April 28, 1983 or which were
drilled after April 28, 1983 pursuant to a notice of intention to drill which
was on file with the department on such date are exempt from this chapter,
except that:
1.Wells drilled before June 12, 1980 which are not
abandoned or capped or wells which were not completed on June 12, 1980 but for
which a notice of intention to drill was on file with the Arizona water
commission on such date are subject to subsections J, K and L of this section
and must be registered pursuant to section 45593. If two or more wells
in an active management area are exempt under this paragraph and are used to
serve the same non-irrigation use at the same location, the aggregate quantity
of groundwater withdrawn from the wells shall not exceed fiftysix
acre-feet per year.
2.Wells drilled between June 12, 1980 and April 28,
1983, except as provided in paragraph 1 of this subsection, and wells drilled
after April 28, 1983 pursuant to a notice of intention to drill which was on
file with the department on April 28, 1983, are subject to subsections G, I, J
and K of this section.
B.Withdrawals of groundwater for non-irrigation uses
from wells having a pump with a maximum capacity of not more than thirtyfive
gallons per minute drilled on or after April 28, 1983, except wells drilled
after April 28, 1983 pursuant to a notice of intention to drill which was on
file with the department on such date, are exempt from this chapter, except
that:
1.Such wells are subject to subsections G through K
of this section.
2.In an active management area, other than a
subsequent active management area designated for a portion of a groundwater basin
in the regional aquifer systems of northern Arizona, withdrawals of groundwater
from such wells for non-irrigation uses other than domestic purposes and stock
watering shall not exceed ten acre-feet per year.
3.In a subsequent active management area that is
designated for a portion of a groundwater basin in the regional aquifer systems
of northern Arizona, groundwater withdrawn from such wells may be used only for
domestic purposes and stock watering.
C.On or after January 1, 2006, an exempt well otherwise
allowed by this section may not be drilled on land if any part of the land is
within one hundred feet of the operating water distribution system of a
municipal provider with an assured water supply designation within the
boundaries of an active management area established on or before July 1, 1994,
as shown on a digitized service area map provided to the director by the
municipal provider and updated by the municipal provider as specified by the
director.
D.On request from the owner of the land on which an
exempt well is prohibited pursuant to subsection C of this section on a form
prescribed by the director, the director shall issue an exemption from
subsection C of this section if the landowner demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director that any of the following applies:
1.The landowner submitted a written request for
service to the municipal provider that operates the distribution system and the
municipal provider did not provide written verification to the landowner within
thirty calendar days after receipt of the request that water service is
available to the landowner after payment of any applicable fee to the municipal
provider.
2.The total capital cost and fees for connecting to
the operating water distribution system exceed the total capital cost and fees
for drilling and fully equipping an exempt well.
3.If the applicant must obtain an easement across
other land to connect to the water distribution system of the municipal
provider, the applicant sent the owner of the land a request for the easement
by certified mail, return receipt requested, and either the applicant did not
receive a response to the request within thirty calendar days of mailing the
request or the request was denied.
4.The landowner does not qualify for an exemption
pursuant to paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection and the landowner provides
written verification from the municipal provider that the landowner shall not
receive or request water service from the municipal provider while the exempt
well is operational. The exemption for that well is revoked if the landowner
or any subsequent landowner receives water service from the municipal
provider. In determining whether to approve or reject a permit application
filed under section 45599, the director shall not consider any impacts
the proposed well may have on an exempt well drilled pursuant to this
paragraph.
E.This section does not prohibit a property owner,
after January 1, 2006, from drilling a replacement exempt well for a lawful
exempt well if the replacement well does not increase the total number of
operable exempt wells on the applicant's land.
F.A remediation well drilled for the purpose of
remediating groundwater is exempt from this section if it meets one of the
following:
1.The remediation well is for an approved
department of environmental quality or United States environmental protection
agency remediation program.
2.A registered professional geologist
certifies that the remediation well is for the purpose of remediation.
G.A person shall file a notice of intention to
drill with the director pursuant to section 45596 before drilling an
exempt well or causing an exempt well to be drilled.
H.The registered well owner shall file a completion
report pursuant to section 45600, subsection B.
I.In an active management area only one exempt well
may be drilled or used to serve the same non-irrigation use at the same
location, except that a person may drill or use a second exempt well to serve
the same nonirrigation use at the same location if the director
determines that all of the following apply:
1.Because of its location, the first exempt well is
not capable of consistently producing more than three gallons per minute of
groundwater when equipped with a pump with a maximum capacity of thirtyfive
gallons per minute.
2.The second exempt well is located on the same
parcel of land as the first exempt well, the parcel of land is at least one
acre in size, all groundwater withdrawn from both exempt wells is used on that
parcel of land and there are no other exempt wells on that parcel of land.
3.Combined withdrawals from both wells do not
exceed five acrefeet per year.
4.If the second exempt well is drilled after
January 1, 2000, the county health authority for the county in which the well
is located or any other local health authority that controls the installation
of septic tanks or sewer systems in the county has approved the location of the
well in writing after physically inspecting the well site.
5.Use of two wells for the same non-irrigation use
at the same location is not contrary to the health and welfare of the public.
J.An exempt well is subject to sections 45594
and 45595.
K.Groundwater withdrawn from an exempt well may be
transported only pursuant to articles 8 and 8.1 of this chapter.
L.A person who owns land from which exempt
withdrawals were being made as of the date of the designation of the active
management area is not eligible for a certificate of grandfathered right for a
type 2 non-irrigation use for such withdrawals.
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Domestic purposes" means uses related
to the supply, service and activities of households and private residences and
includes the application of water to less than two acres of land to produce
plants or parts of plants for sale or human consumption, or for use as feed for
livestock, range livestock or poultry, as such terms are defined in section 31201.
2."Municipal provider" means a city,
town, private water company or irrigation district that supplies water for
non-irrigation use.
3."Stock watering" means the watering of
livestock, range livestock or poultry, as such terms are defined in section 31201.
END_STATUTE
Sec.54.Section 45-596, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-596.Notice of intention to drill; fee
A.In an area not subject to active management, a
person may not drill or cause to be drilled any well or deepen an existing well
without first filing notice of intention to drill pursuant to subsection C of
this section or obtaining a permit pursuant to section 45834.01. Only
one notice of intention to drill is required for all wells that are drilled by
or for the same person to obtain geophysical, mineralogical or geotechnical
data within a single section of land.
B.In an active management area, a person may not
drill or cause to be drilled an exempt well, a replacement well in
approximately the same location or any other well for which a permit is not
required under this article, article 7 of this chapter or section 45834.01
or deepen an existing well without first filing a notice of intention to drill
pursuant to subsection C of this section. Only one notice of intention to
drill is required for all wells that are drilled by or for the same person to
obtain geophysical, mineralogical or geotechnical data within a single section
of land.
C.A notice of intention to drill shall be filed
with the director on a form that is prescribed and furnished by the director
and that shall include:
1.The name and mailing address of the person filing
the notice.
2.The legal description of the land on which the
well is proposed to be drilled and the name and mailing address of the owner of
the land.
3.The legal description of the location of the well
on the land.
4.The depth, diameter and type of casing of the
proposed well.
5.Such legal description of the land on which the
groundwater is proposed to be used as may be required by the director to
administer this chapter.
6.When construction is to begin.
7.The proposed uses to which the groundwater will
be applied.
8.The name and well driller's license number of the
well driller who is to construct the well.
9.The design pumping capacity of the well.
10.If for a replacement well, the maximum capacity
of the original well and the distance of the replacement well from the original
well.
11.Proof that the director determines to be
satisfactory that the person proposing to construct the well holds a valid
license issued by the registrar of contractors pursuant to title 32, chapter 10
and that the license is of the type necessary to construct the well described
in the notice of intention to drill. If the proposed well driller does not
hold a valid license, the director may accept proof that the proposed well
driller is exempt from licensing as prescribed by section 321121.
12.If any water from the proposed well will be used
for domestic purposes as defined in section 45454, evidence of
compliance with the requirements of subsection F of this section.
13.If for a second exempt well at the same location
for the same use pursuant to section 45454, subsection I, proof that the
requirements of that subsection are met.
14.If for a well to obtain geophysical,
mineralogical or geotechnical data within a single section of land, the
information prescribed by this subsection for each well that will be included
in that section of land before each well is drilled.
15.Such other information as the director may
require.
D.On receiving a notice of intention to drill and
the fee required by subsection L of this section, the director shall endorse on
the notice the date of its receipt. The director shall then determine whether all
information that is required has been submitted and whether the requirements of
subsection C, paragraphs 11 and 12 and subsection I of this section have been
met. If so, within fifteen days of receipt of the notice, or such longer time
as provided in subsection J of this section, the director shall record the
notice, mail a drilling card that authorizes the drilling of the well to the
well driller identified in the notice and mail written notice of the issuance
of the drilling card to the person filing the notice of intention to drill at
the address stated in the notice. On receipt of the drilling card, the well
driller may proceed to drill or deepen the well as described in the notice of
intention to drill. If the director determines that the required information
has not been submitted or that the requirements of subsection C, paragraphs 11
and 12 or subsection I of this section have not been met, the director shall
mail a statement of the determination to the person giving the notice to the
address stated in the notice, and the person giving the notice may not proceed
to drill or deepen the well.
E.The well shall be completed within one year after
the date of the notice unless the director approves a longer period of time
pursuant to this subsection. If the well is not completed within one year or
within the time approved by the director pursuant to this subsection, the
person shall file a new notice before proceeding with further
construction.At the time the drilling card for the well is issued, the
director may provide for and approve a completion period that is greater than
one year but not to exceed five years from the date of the notice if both of
the following apply:
1.The proposed well is a nonexempt well within an
active management area and qualifies as a replacement well in approximately the
same location as prescribed in rules adopted by the director pursuant to
section 45-597.
2.The applicant has submitted evidence that
demonstrates one of the following:
(a)This state or a political subdivision of this
state has acquired or has begun a condemnation action to acquire the land on
which the original well is located.
(b)The original well has been rendered inoperable
due to flooding, subsidence or other extraordinary physical circumstances that
are beyond the control of the well owner.
F.If any water from a proposed well will be used
for domestic purposes as defined in section 45454 on a parcel of land of
five or fewer acres, the applicant shall submit a well site plan of the
property with the notice of intention to drill. The site plan shall:
1.Include the county assessor's parcel
identification number.
2.Show the proposed well location and the location
of any septic tank or sewer system that is either located on the property or within
one hundred feet of the proposed well site.
3.Show written approval by the county health
authority that controls the installation of septic tanks or sewer systems in
the county, or by the local health authority in areas where the authority to
control installation of septic tanks or sewer systems has been delegated to a
local authority. In areas where there is no local or county authority that
controls the installation of septic tanks or sewer systems, the applicant shall
apply for approval directly to the department of water resources.
G.Before approving a well site plan submitted
pursuant to subsection F of this section, the county or local health authority
or the department of water resources, as applicable, pursuant to subsection F
of this section, shall review the well site plan and determine whether the
proposed well location complies with applicable local laws, ordinances and
regulations and any laws or rules adopted under this title and title 49
regarding the placement of wells and the proximity of wells to septic tanks or
sewer systems. If the health authority or the department of water resources,
as applicable, pursuant to subsection F of this section, finds that the
proposed well location complies with this title and title 49 and with local
requirements, it shall endorse the site plan and the proposed well placement in
a manner indicating approval.On endorsement, the director of water
resources shall approve the construction of the well, if all remaining
requirements have been met.If the health authority is unable to
determine whether the proposed well location complies with this title and title
49 and local requirements, it shall indicate this on the site plan and the
decision to approve or reject the proposed construction rests with the director
of water resources. If parcel size, geology or location of improvements on the
property prevents the well from being drilled in accordance with this title and
title 49 or local requirements, the property owner may apply for a variance.
The property owner shall make the request for a variance to the county or local
authority if a county or local law, ordinance or regulation prevents the
proposed construction.If a law or rule adopted under this title or
title 49 prevents the proposed construction, the property owner shall make the
request for a variance directly to the department of water resources. The
request for a variance shall be in the form and shall contain the information
that the department of water resources, county or local authority may require.
The department of water resources, or the county or local authority whose law,
ordinance or regulation prevents the proposed construction, may expressly
require that a particular variance shall include certification by a registered
professional engineer or a professional
geologist that the location of the well will not pose a health
hazard to the applicant or surrounding property or inhabitants.If
all necessary variances are obtained, the director of water resources shall
approve the construction of the well if all remaining requirements have been
met.
H.If a well that was originally drilled as an
exploration well, a monitor well or a piezometer well or for any use other than
domestic use is later proposed to be converted to use for domestic purposes as
defined in section 45454, the well owner shall file a notice of
intention to drill and shall comply with this section before the well is
converted and any water from that well is used for domestic purposes.
I.Except as prescribed in subsection K of this
section, the director shall not approve the drilling of the well if the
director determines that the well will likely cause the migration of
contaminated groundwater from a remedial action site to another well, resulting
in unreasonably increasing damage to the owner of the well or persons using
water from the well. In making this determination, the director of water
resources shall follow the applicable criteria in the rules adopted by the
director of water resources pursuant to section 45598, subsection A and
shall consult with the director of environmental quality. For the purposes of
this subsection:
1."Contaminated groundwater" means
groundwater that has been contaminated by a release of a hazardous substance,
as defined in section 49201, or a pollutant, as defined in section 49201.
2."Remedial action site" means any of the
following:
(a)The site of a remedial action undertaken
pursuant to the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and
liability act of 1980, as amended (P.L. 96510; 94 Stat. 2767; 42 United
States Code sections 9601 through 9657), commonly known as
"superfund".
(b)The site of a corrective action undertaken
pursuant to title 49, chapter 6.
(c)The site of a voluntary remediation action
undertaken pursuant to title 49, chapter 1, article 5.
(d)The site of a remedial action undertaken
pursuant to title 49, chapter 2, article 5, including mitigation of a
nonhazardous release undertaken pursuant to an order issued by the department
of environmental quality pursuant to section 49286.
(e)The site of a remedial action undertaken
pursuant to the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976 (P.L. 94580;
90 Stat. 2795; 42 United States Code sections 6901 through 6992).
(f)The site of remedial action undertaken pursuant
to the department of defense environmental restoration program (P.L. 99499;
100 Stat. 1719; 10 United States Code section 2701).
J.Except as prescribed in subsection K of this
section, the director shall approve or deny the drilling of a well within fortyfive
days after receipt of the notice of intention to drill if one of the following
applies:
1.The proposed well is located within a remedial
action site.
2.The proposed well is located within one mile of
any of the following remedial action sites:
(a)A remedial action undertaken pursuant to title
49, chapter 2, article 5, including mitigation of a nonhazardous release
undertaken pursuant to an order issued by the department of environmental
quality pursuant to section 49286.
(b)A remedial action undertaken pursuant to the
comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980,
as amended (P.L. 96510; 94 Stat. 2767; 42 United States Code sections
9601 through 9657), commonly known as "superfund".
(c)A remedial action undertaken pursuant to the
department of defense environmental restoration program (P.L. 99499; 100
Stat. 1719; 10 United States Code section 2701).
3.The proposed well is located within one-half mile
of either of the following remedial action sites:
(a)A remedial action undertaken pursuant to title
49, chapter 1, article 5.
(b)A remedial action undertaken pursuant to the
resource conservation and recovery act of 1976 (P.L. 94580; 90 Stat.
2795; 42 United States Code sections 6901 through 6992).
4.The proposed well is located within five hundred
feet of the site of a corrective action undertaken pursuant to title 49,
chapter 6.
K.Subsections I and J of this section do not apply
to the deepening of a well or to the drilling of a replacement well in
approximately the same location.
L.A notice of intention to drill filed under this
section shall be accompanied by a filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars,
except that a notice filed for a proposed well that will not be located within
an active management area or an irrigation nonexpansion area, that will be used
solely for domestic purposes as defined in section 45454 and that will
have a pump with a maximum capacity of not more than thirtyfive gallons
per minute shall be accompanied by a filing fee of one hundred dollars. The
director shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all
fees collected pursuant to this subsection in the well administration and
enforcement fund established by section 45606. END_STATUTE
Sec.55.Section 49-1052, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-1052.Noncorrective actions; baseline assessment
A.A baseline period of seven years from January 1,
2016 is established for underground storage tanks. Beginning January 1, 2016,
during the baseline period, an owner, operator or person who meets the
requirements of section 491016, subsection C may do the following:
1.Elect to conduct a baseline assessment pursuant
to this section.
2.Request a grant to cover costs associated with
the baseline assessment pursuant to section 491071.
3.Request the department to perform the baseline
assessment under section 491017.02.
B.The department shall establish standards for
conducting baseline assessments pursuant to this section.Until the
department establishes standards by rule or by guidance documents, baseline
assessment work plans shall be submitted to the department for approval and
shall be considered for preapproval on a case-by-case basis, based on
compliance with subsection D of this section.
C.Baseline assessments shall be conducted under the
direction of a person who is a professional engineer or a registered geologist who is registered
under title 32, chapter 1,
or a remediation specialist
who is certified under
title 32, chapter 1 and the rules adopted under that chapter or a professional geologist.
D.The scope of the baseline assessment shall
address likely release areas and shall include a collection of sufficient
information to allow for a determination of the current environmental condition
of the property. Samples shall be collected in areas where contamination is
most likely to have occurred and sample locations shall consider site-specific
conditions, location of potential receptors and preexisting contamination. The
baseline assessment must include the registered or certified professional's
interpretation regarding confirmation of an unknown release and evaluation of
potential risk for the purpose of prioritizing corrective actions.
E.If unknown contamination is identified in the
baseline assessment, all of the following apply:
1.The owner, operator or person that meets the
requirements of section 491016, subsection C shall comply with the
reporting requirements pursuant to section 491004 and shall initiate
corrective actions pursuant to section 491005.
2.Unless documentation is provided to the
department that demonstrates that the operating underground storage tank is not
the source of the release, the department shall require tightness testing.
3.If continued operation of the underground storage
tank may result in a continued release, the department may initiate delivery
prohibition as prescribed in section 491023. END_STATUTE
Sec.56.Department of administration; transfer of nonhealth
regulatory boards; study; report
A.The department of administration shall conduct a
study relating to the transfer of all nonhealth regulatory boards in title 32
to a new licensing and regulatory division in the department of
administration. The study shall include the costs and benefits associated with
the transfer.
B.The department of administration shall submit a
report of its findings and recommendations to the governor, the president of
the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives on or before October
1, 2016 and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
Sec.57.Retention of members
Notwithstanding section 32-102, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by this act, all persons serving as members of the state board of
technical registration on the effective date of this act may continue to serve
until the expiration of their normal terms. The governor shall make all
subsequent appointments as prescribed by statute.
Sec.58.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 36-601.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act,
is effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the
members of each house of the legislature.

