







REFERENCE TITLE: student tuition scholarships; revenue
  department







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2608









Introduced by
Representatives
  Fernandez: Andrade, Larkin, Otondo, Plumlee





AN ACT

Amending sections
15-2401, 15-2402, 20-224.06, 20-224.07, 42-2001, 43-401, 43-1089, 43-1089.03,
43-1089.04, 43-1121, 43-1183 and 43-1184, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
section 43-1502, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 43-1503, 43-1504,
43-1505, 43-1506 and 43-1507, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section
43-1602, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 43-1603, 43-1604 and
43-1605, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to contributions for school
tuition.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Curriculum" means a complete course of
study for a particular content area or grade level, including any supplemental
materials required by the curriculum.
2."Department" means the department of
education.
3."Eligible postsecondary institution"
means a community college as defined in section 151401, a university
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents or an accredited private
postsecondary institution.
4."Parent" means a resident of this state
who is the parent or legal guardian of a qualified student.
5."Qualified school" means a
nongovernmental primary or secondary school or a preschool for pupils with
disabilities that is located in this state and that does not discriminate on
the basis of race, color or national origin.
6."Qualified student" means a resident of
this state who:
(a)Is any of the following:
(i)Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 (29 United States Code section 794).
(ii)Identified by a school district or by an
independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I as a
child with a disability as defined in section 15761.
(iii)A child with a disability who is eligible to
receive services from a school district under section 15763.
(iv)Attending a school or school district that has
been assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241 or who
is currently eligible to attend kindergarten and who resides within the
attendance boundary of a school that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F
pursuant to section 15241.
(v)A previous recipient of a scholarship issued
pursuant to section 15891 or this section.
(vi)A child of a parent who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vii)A child with a guardian who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(viii)A child who is a ward of the juvenile court
and who is residing with a prospective permanent placement pursuant to section
8862 and the case plan is adoption or permanent guardianship.
(ix)A child who was a ward of the juvenile court
and who achieved permanency through adoption or permanent guardianship.
(x)A child who is the sibling of a current or
previous empowerment scholarship account recipient.
(xi)A child who resides within the boundaries of an
Indian reservation in this state.
(b)And, except as provided in subdivision (a),
items (vi) and (vii) of this paragraph, who meets any of the following
requirements:
(i)Attended a governmental primary or secondary
school as a fulltime student as defined in section 15901 for at
least the first one hundred days of the prior fiscal year and who transferred
from a governmental primary or secondary school under a contract to participate
in an empowerment scholarship account.
(ii)Previously participated in the empowerment
scholarship account program.
(iii)Received a scholarship under section 431505
and who continues to attend a qualified school if the student attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a fulltime student as
defined in section 15901 for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal
year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified school.
(iv)Was eligible for an Arizona scholarship for
pupils with disabilities and received monies from a school tuition organization the department of revenue pursuant to section
431505 or received an Arizona scholarship for pupils with disabilities
but did not receive monies from a school
tuition organization the
department of revenue pursuant to section 431505 and who
continues to attend a qualified school if the student attended a governmental
primary or secondary school as a fulltime student as defined in section
15-901 for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal year or one full semester
prior to attending a qualified school.
(v)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a
kindergarten program in a school district or charter school in this state.
(vi)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a program
for preschool children with disabilities in this state.
7."Treasurer" means the office of the
state treasurer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-2402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2402.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts; funds
A.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts are
established to provide options for the education of students in this state.
B.To enroll a qualified student for an empowerment
scholarship account, the parent of the qualified student must sign an agreement
to do all of the following:
1.Use a portion of the empowerment scholarship
account monies allocated each quarter to provide an education for the qualified
student in at least the subjects of reading, grammar, mathematics, social studies
and science, unless the empowerment scholarship account is allocated monies
according to a transfer schedule other than quarterly transfers pursuant to
section 152403, subsection F.
2.Not enroll the qualified student in a school
district or charter school and release the school district from all obligations
to educate the qualified student. This paragraph does not relieve the school
district or charter school that the qualified student previously attended from
the obligation to conduct an evaluation pursuant to section 15766.
3.Not accept a scholarship from a school tuition organization the department of revenue pursuant to title 43
concurrently with an empowerment scholarship account for the qualified student
in the same year a parent signs the agreement pursuant to this section.
4.Use the money deposited in the qualified
student's Arizona empowerment scholarship account only for the following
expenses of the qualified student:
(a)Tuition or fees at a qualified school.
(b)Textbooks required by a qualified school.
(c)Educational therapies or services from a
licensed or accredited practitioner or provider, including licensed or
accredited paraprofessionals or educational aides, if the qualified student
meets any of the criteria specified in section 152401, paragraph 6,
subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) as determined by a school district or
by an independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I.
(d)Tutoring or teaching services provided by an
individual or facility accredited by a state, regional or national accrediting
organization.
(e)Curriculum Curricula.
(f)Tuition or fees for a nonpublic online learning
program.
(g)Fees for a nationally standardized
norm-referenced achievement test, an advanced placement examination or any
exams related to college or university admission.
(h)Contributions to a Coverdell education savings
account established pursuant to 26 United States Code section 530 for the
benefit of the qualified student, except that money used for elementary or
secondary education expenses must be for expenses otherwise allowed under this
section.
(i)Tuition or fees at an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(j)Textbooks required by an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(k)Fees for management of the empowerment
scholarship account by firms selected by the treasurer.
(l)Services provided by a public school, including
individual classes and extracurricular programs.
(m)Insurance or surety bond payments as required by
the department of education.
5.Not file an affidavit of intent to homeschool
pursuant to section 15802, subsection B, paragraph 2 or 3.
6.Not use monies deposited in the qualified
student's account for any of the following:
(a)Computer hardware or other technological
devices.
(b)Transportation of the pupil.
(c)Consumable educational supplies, including
paper, pens or markers.
C.In exchange for the parent's agreement pursuant
to subsection B of this section, the department shall transfer from the monies
that would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's prior school district, or if
the child is currently eligible to attend kindergarten, the monies that the
department determines would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's expected
school district of attendance, to the treasurer for deposit into an Arizona
empowerment scholarship account an amount that is equivalent to ninety per cent percent of the sum of the base support level
and additional assistance prescribed in sections 15185 and 15943
for that particular student if that student were attending a charter school.
The department may retain up to five per
cent percent
of the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account for deposit in the department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund established in subsection D of this section, out of
which the department shall transfer one per
cent percent
of the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account to the state treasurer for deposit in the state treasurer
empowerment scholarship account fund established in subsection E of this
section.
D.The department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund is established consisting of monies retained by the
department pursuant to subsection C of this section. The department shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation.
Monies in the fund shall be used for the department's costs in administering
empowerment scholarship accounts under this chapter. Monies in the fund are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations. If the number of empowerment scholarship accounts
significantly increases after fiscal year 20122013, the department may
request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any subsequent
fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
E.The state treasurer empowerment scholarship
account fund is established consisting of monies transferred by the department
to the state treasurer pursuant to subsection C of this section. The state
treasurer shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for the
state treasurer's costs in administering the empowerment scholarship accounts
under this chapter.If the number of empowerment scholarship
accounts significantly increases after fiscal year 20132014, the state
treasurer may request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any
subsequent fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
F.A parent must renew the qualified student's
empowerment scholarship account on an annual basis.Notwithstanding
any changes to the student's multidisciplinary evaluation team plan, a student
who has previously qualified for an empowerment scholarship account shall
remain eligible to apply for renewal until the student finishes high school.
G.A signed agreement under this section constitutes
school attendance required by section 15802.
H.A qualified school or a provider of services
purchased pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 4 of this section may not share,
refund or rebate any Arizona empowerment scholarship account monies with the
parent or qualified student in any manner.
I.On the qualified student's graduation from a
postsecondary institution or after any period of four consecutive years after
high school graduation in which the student is not enrolled in an eligible
postsecondary institution, the qualified student's Arizona empowerment
scholarship account shall be closed and any remaining funds shall be returned
to the state.
J.Monies received pursuant to this article do not
constitute taxable income to the parent of the qualified student. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 20-224.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-224.06.Premium tax credit for contributions for school tuition;
low-income scholarships
A.A credit is allowed against the premium tax
liability incurred by an insurer pursuant to section 20224, 20837,
201010, 201060 or 201097.07 for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the insurer during the tax year to a school tuition organization the department of revenue for the payment of school tuition
as provided by section 43-1183 and title 43, chapter 15.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the insurer's contributions for the tax year under subsection A of this section
that is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to section 431183,
subsection D.
C.The procedures, conditions, limitations,
definitions and other requirements prescribed by section 431183 and
title 43, chapter 15 apply to:
1.Insurers that claim a credit under this section.
2.Claims for credit under this section.
3.School
tuition organizations that receive The department of revenue in receiving
contributions from insurers for the purposes of this section.
4.Schools that qualify to receive scholarship
monies contributed by insurers for the purposes of this section.
5.Students who receive scholarships from monies
contributed by insurers for the purposes of this section.
D.If the allowable amount of a credit under this
section exceeds the insurer's state premium tax liability, the amount of the
claim not used to offset the premium tax liability may be carried forward as a
credit against the insurer's subsequent years' premium tax liability for a
period not to exceed five taxable years.
E.A credit is not allowed if the insurer designates
the contribution for the direct benefit of any specific student.
F.An insurer that claims a tax credit against state
premium tax liability is not required to pay any additional retaliatory tax
imposed pursuant to section 20230 as a result of claiming that tax
credit.
G.The department of insurance, with the cooperation
of the department of revenue, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe forms
and procedures necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 20-224.07, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-224.07.Premium tax credit for contributions for school tuition;
displaced students and students with disabilities
A.A credit is allowed against the premium tax
liability incurred by an insurer pursuant to section 20224, 20837,
201010, 201060 or 201097.07 for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the insurer during the tax year to a school tuition organization the department of revenue for the payment of school tuition
as provided by section 43-1184 and title 43, chapter 15.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the insurer's contributions for the tax year under subsection A of this section
that is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to section 431184,
subsection D.
C.The procedures, conditions, limitations,
definitions and other requirements prescribed by section 431184 and
title 43, chapter 15 apply to:
1.Insurers that claim a credit under this section.
2.Claims for credit under this section.
3.School
tuition organizations that receive The department of revenue in receiving
contributions from insurers for the purposes of this section.
4.Qualified schools that participate under this
section.
5.Students who receive scholarships from monies
contributed by insurers for the purposes of this section.
D.If the allowable amount of a credit under this
section exceeds the insurer's state premium tax liability, the amount of the
claim not used to offset the premium tax liability may be carried forward as a
credit against the insurer's subsequent years' premium tax liability for a
period not to exceed five taxable years.
E.A credit is not allowed if the insurer designates
the contribution for the direct benefit of any specific student.
F.An insurer that claims a tax credit against state
premium tax liability is not required to pay any additional retaliatory tax
imposed pursuant to section 20230 as a result of claiming that tax
credit.
G.The department of insurance, with the cooperation
of the department of revenue, shall adopt rules necessary for the
administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-2001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2001.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Confidential information":
(a)Includes the following information whether it
concerns individual taxpayers or is aggregate information for specifically
identified taxpayers:
(i)Returns and reports filed with the department
for income tax, withholding tax, transaction privilege tax, luxury tax, use
tax, property tax and severance tax.
(ii)Applications for transaction privilege
licenses, luxury tax licenses, use tax licenses and withholding licenses.
(iii)Information discovered concerning taxes and
receipts by the department, whether or not by compulsory process.
(iv)Return information obtained from the United
States internal revenue service and United States bureau of alcohol, tobacco
and firearms.
(v)Information that is supplied at the special request of the
department by a taxpayer which and that the taxpayer requests
to be held in confidence.
(vi)Guidelines, standards or procedures that are
established by the department for, or other information relating to, selecting
returns or taxpayers for examination or settling or compromising any tax
liability.
(vii)A taxpayer's identity, the nature, source or
amount of the taxpayer's income, payments, receipts, deductions, exemptions,
credits, assets, liabilities, net worth, tax liability, tax withheld, deficiencies,
overassessments or tax payments, whether the taxpayer's return was, is being or
will be examined or subject to investigation, collection or processing or any
other data received by, recorded by, prepared by, furnished to or collected by
the department with respect to a return or with respect to the termination, or
possible existence, of liability of any person for any tax, penalty or interest
imposed pursuant to this title or title 43.
(viii)Information supplied by an employee to an
employer regarding the employee's election to have the employee's withholding
tax reduced for the purposes of contributions to qualifying charitable
organizations, qualified school tuition
organizations the
department or public schools pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G.
(b)Does not include information that is otherwise a
public record.
2."Report" includes a notice of insurance
payments, a request for a release of a bank account and an inventory of a safe
deposit box.
3."Return" includes any form prescribed by
the department and any supporting schedules, attachments and lists.
4."Tax administration" includes
assessment, collection, investigation, litigation, statistical gathering
functions, enforcement, policy making functions or management of those functions
of the tax revenue laws of this state.
5."Taxpayer", with respect to a joint
return, means either party. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 43-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-401.Withholding tax; rates; election by employee
A.Except as provided by subsections B and H of this
section, every employer at the time of the payment of wages, salary, bonus or
other emolument to any employee whose compensation is for services performed
within this state shall deduct and retain from the compensation an amount
prescribed by tables adopted by the department.
B.An employer may voluntarily elect to not withhold
tax during December by notifying:
1.The department on a form prescribed by the
department.
2.The employer's employees in writing in a manner
prescribed by the department.
C.If the amount collected and payable by the
employer to the department in each of the preceding four calendar quarters did
not exceed an average of one thousand five hundred dollars, the amount
collected shall be paid to the department on or before April 30, July 31,
October 31 and January31 for the preceding calendar quarter. If such
amount exceeded one thousand five hundred dollars in each of the preceding four
calendar quarters, the employer shall pay to the department the amount the
employer deducts and retains pursuant to this section at the same time as the
employer is required to make deposits of federal tax pursuant to section 6302
of the internal revenue code. On or before April 30, July 31, October 31 and
January 31 each year, the employer shall reconcile the amounts payable during
the preceding calendar quarter in a manner prescribed by the department, except
that if the full amount collected and payable is paid timely to the department
under this subsection, the employer may reconcile the amounts on or before May
10, August 10, November 10 and February 10 each year. The department by rule
may allow and determine which employers qualify for annual payments of
withholding taxes, with an annual report by the employer pursuant to section 43412,
subsection B, if the qualifying employer has established sufficient payment
history to indicate that the employer is current and in good standing pursuant
to standards established by rule. For any business which
that has not had a withholding certificate for the four preceding
consecutive quarters, the quarterly average shall be computed in a manner
prescribed by the department.
D.If an employer fails to make a timely monthly
payment because prior to that reporting period it reported on a quarterly basis
instead of on a monthly basis, the department shall notify the employer that it
is out of compliance with this section.Notwithstanding section 421125,
the department shall not assess a penalty against an employer for failing to
make a timely monthly payment if the employer had filed and remitted all taxes
due on a quarterly basis and brings all filings and payments into current
compliance within thirty days after being notified by the department.
E.Each employee shall elect the amount authorized
by subsection A of this section to be withheld for application toward the
employee's state income tax liability. The election provided under this
subsection shall be exercised by each employee, in writing on a form prescribed
by the department. The election shall be made within five days of employment.
Each employer shall notify the employees of the election made available under
this subsection and shall have election forms available at all times. Each
form shall be completed in triplicate, with one copy each for the department,
the employer and the employee. The employer shall file a copy of each
completed form with the department. Any employee failing to complete an
election form as prescribed shall be deemed to have elected the withholding
percentage prescribed by the department.
F.Before July 1 of each year, each employer who
chooses to not withhold tax pursuant to subsection B of this section shall
notify each employee that:
1.State income taxes will not be withheld from
compensation in December.
2.The employee may elect to change the rate of
withholding tax prescribed by this section to compensate for the resulting
change in annual withholdings from the employee's compensation.
G.At an employee's written request, the employer
may agree to reduce the amount withheld under this section by the amount of
credit that the employee represents to the employer that the employee will
qualify for and be entitled to under sections 431088, 431089, 431089.01
and 431089.03. The employee's request must include the name and address
of the any qualifying charitable organization, qualified school tuition organization
or public school. Within thirty days after agreeing to the employee's request,
the employer shall reduce the withholding amount by the amount of the credit,
but not below zero, prorated for the number of pay periods remaining in the
employee's taxable year after the employee makes the request. If an employer
agrees to reduce the withholding amount pursuant to this subsection, the
following apply:
1.Within fifteen days after the end of each
calendar quarter, the employer must pay the entire amount of the reduction in
withholding tax for that quarter to the designated charitable organization, school tuition organization or the public school or, in the case of contributions for school
tuition under section 43-1089 or 43-1089.03, the department.
These payments are considered to be on the employee's behalf, and not the
employer's, for the purposes of qualifying for the income tax credits under
sections 431088, 431089, 431089.01 and 431089.03.
2.The employee is responsible and accountable for
the accuracy and the amount of reduction in withholding tax and the payments to
the charitable organization, school
tuition organization or public school or department.
3.The employer is responsible and accountable to
the charitable organization, school
tuition organization or public school, to the employee and to the department for actually making the required payments.
4.Within thirty days after the end of each calendar
year, or within fifteen days after the termination of employment, the employer
must furnish to each electing employee and to the department a statement of the
amount withheld and paid on behalf of the employee during that year.
H.An employer shall not withhold tax on the wages
of the employer's nonresident employees who are in this state on a temporary
basis for the purpose of performing disaster recovery from a declared disaster
during a disaster period as defined in section 421130. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 43-1089, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.Credit for contributions for school tuition
A.A credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for the amount of voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on
the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401, subsection G during the
taxable year to a school tuition
organization that is certified pursuant to the department for the purposes of chapter 16
of this title at the time of donation.
Except as provided by subsection C of this section, the amount of the credit
shall not exceed:
1.Five hundred dollars in any taxable year for a
single individual or a head of household.
2.One thousand dollars in any taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.A husband and wife who file separate returns for
a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return may each claim
only onehalf of the tax credit that would have been allowed for a joint
return.
C.For each taxable year beginning on or after
January 1, the department shall adjust the dollar amounts prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section according to the average
annual change in the metropolitan Phoenix consumer price index published by the
United States bureau of labor statistics, except that the dollar amounts shall
not be revised downward below the amounts allowed in the prior taxable year.
The revised dollar amounts shall be raised to the nearest whole dollar.
D.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
F.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to
the school tuition organization for the direct benefit of any
dependent of the taxpayer or if the taxpayer designates a student beneficiary
as a condition of the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization. The tax
credit is not allowed if the taxpayer, with the intent to benefit the
taxpayer's dependent, agrees with one or more other taxpayers to designate each
taxpayer's contribution to the school
tuition organization for the direct benefit of the other
taxpayer's dependent.
G.For the purposes of this section, a contribution,
for which a credit is claimed, that is made on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month following the close of the taxable year may be applied to
either the current or preceding taxable year and is considered to have been
made on the last day of that taxable year. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 43-1089.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.03.Credit for contributions for school tuition 
A.A credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for the amount of voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on
the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401, subsection I G during the taxable year to a school tuition organization that is certified pursuant to
chapter 16 of this title at the time of donation the department for the purposes of section 43-1603,
subsection E. Except as provided by subsection C of this section,
the amount of the credit shall not exceed:
1.Five hundred
dollars in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.One thousand
dollars in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
B.A husband and wife who file separate returns for
a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return may each claim
only one-half of the tax credit that would have been allowed for a joint
return.
C.For each taxable year beginning on or after
January 1, the department shall adjust the dollar amounts prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section according to the average
annual change in the metropolitan phoenix consumer price index published by the
United States bureau of labor statistics, except that the dollar amounts shall
not be revised downward below the amounts allowed in the prior taxable year.
The revised dollar amounts shall be raised to the nearest whole dollar.
D.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
F.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to
the school tuition organization for the direct benefit of any
dependent of the taxpayer or if the taxpayer designates a student beneficiary
as a condition of the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization. The tax
credit is not allowed if the taxpayer, with the intent to benefit the
taxpayer's dependent, agrees with one or more other taxpayers to designate each
taxpayer's contribution to the school
tuition organization for the direct benefit of the other
taxpayer's dependent.
G.For the purposes of this section, a contribution,
for which a credit is claimed, that is made on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month following the close of the taxable year may be applied to
either the current or preceding taxable year and is considered to have been
made on the last day of that taxable year. 
H.A taxpayer may not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431089 with respect to the same
contribution. If a taxpayer's contribution to a school tuition organization exceeds the
amount of the credit allowed under section 431089, a taxpayer may claim
a credit under this section and also under section 431089.If
a taxpayer's contribution to a school
tuition organization does not exceed the amount of the credit
allowed by section 431089, the contribution is considered to have been
made pursuant to section 431089. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 43-1089.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.04.Pro rata credit for business contributions by S
corporation for school tuition; definition
A.A credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for the pro rata amount of contributions made by an S corporation to the department for the purposes of school
tuition pursuant to section 431183, subsection F or
section 431184, subsection F, or both. To qualify for the credit:
1.The aggregate contribution in the taxable year
must be at least five thousand dollars.
2.All other requirements of section 431183
or 431184 and the applicable sections of chapter 15 of this title must
be met.
B.Co-owners of the S corporation may each claim the
pro rata share of the credit allowed under sections 431183 and 431184
based on the taxpayer's ownership interest.The total of the credits
allowed all the owners of the corporation may not exceed the amount that would
have been allowed a sole owner of the corporation.
C.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
D.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
E.The tax credit is not allowed if the S
corporation or a shareholder designates the contribution to the school tuition organization for the
direct benefit of any dependent of a shareholder of the corporation claiming a
credit under this section or if the corporation or a shareholder designates a
student beneficiary as a condition of the contribution to the school tuition organization.The
tax credit is not allowed if the corporation or a shareholder, with the intent
to benefit a shareholder's dependent, agrees with one or more other taxpayers
to designate reciprocal contributions to
school tuition organizations for the direct benefit of the other
taxpayer's dependent.
F.For the purposes of this section, "S
corporation" or "corporation" means an S corporation as defined
in section 1361 of the internal revenue code. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 43-1121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1121.Additions to Arizona gross income; corporations
In computing Arizona taxable income for a corporation, the
following amounts shall be added to Arizona gross income:
1.The amount of interest income received on
obligations of any state, territory or possession of the United States, or any
political subdivision thereof, located outside this state, reduced, for tax
years beginning from and after December 31, 1996, by the amount of any interest
on indebtedness and other related expenses that were incurred or continued to
purchase or carry those obligations and that are not otherwise deducted or
subtracted in arriving at Arizona gross income.
2.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
taxable income required to be included under chapter 14, article 2 of this
title over the income required to be reported under section 702(a)(8) of the
internal revenue code.
3.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
losses determined pursuant to section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code
over the losses allowable under chapter 14, article 2 of this title.
4.The amount by which the adjusted basis of property
described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to the internal revenue code
exceeds the adjusted basis of such property computed pursuant to this title and
the income tax act of 1954, as amended.This paragraph applies to
all property that is held for the production of income and that is sold or
otherwise disposed of during the taxable year, except depreciable property used
in a trade or business.
5.The amount of any depreciation allowance allowed
pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal revenue code to the extent not
previously added.
6.With respect to property for which an expense
deduction was taken pursuant to section 179 of the internal revenue code in a
taxable year beginning before January 1, 2013, the amount in excess of
twenty-five thousand dollars.
7.The amount of discharge of indebtedness income
that is deferred and excluded from the computation of federal taxable income in
the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue
code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of
2009 (P.L.1115).
8.The amount of any previously deferred original
issue discount that was deducted in computing federal taxable income in the
current year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue code as added
by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of 2009
(P.L.111-5), to the extent that the amount was previously subtracted from
Arizona gross income pursuant to section 43-1122, paragraph 8.
9.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2014, the amount of any deduction that
is claimed in computing federal taxable income for health insurance premiums or
contributions to a health savings account for which a credit is claimed under
section 431185.
10.The amount of dividend income received from
corporations and allowed as a deduction pursuant to sections 243, 244 and 245
of the internal revenue code.
11.Taxes which that are based on income paid
to states, local governments or foreign governments and which
that were deducted in computing federal taxable income.
12.Expenses and interest relating to taxexempt
income on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations
the interest on which is wholly exempt from the tax imposed by this title.
Financial institutions, as defined in section 6101, shall be governed by
section 43961, paragraph2.
13.Commissions, rentals and other amounts paid or
accrued to a domestic international sales corporation controlled by the payor corporation
if the domestic international sales corporation is not required to report its
taxable income to this state because its income is not derived from or
attributable to sources within this state. If the domestic international sales
corporation is subject to article 4 of this chapter, the department shall
prescribe by rule the method of determining the portion of the commissions,
rentals and other amounts which that are paid or accrued to
the controlled domestic international sales corporation and which
that shall be deducted by the payor. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "control" means direct or indirect ownership or control of
fifty per cent percent or more of the voting
stock of the domestic international sales corporation by the payor corporation.
14.The amount of net operating loss taken pursuant
to section 172 of the internal revenue code.
15.The amount of exploration expenses determined
pursuant to section 617 of the internal revenue code to the extent that they
exceed seventyfive thousand dollars and to the extent that the election
is made to defer those expenses not in excess of seventyfive thousand
dollars.
16.Amortization of costs incurred to install
pollution control devices and deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code or
the amount of deduction for depreciation taken pursuant to the internal revenue
code on pollution control devices for which an election is made pursuant to
section 431129.
17.The amount of depreciation or amortization of
costs of child care facilities deducted pursuant to section 167 or 188 of the
internal revenue code for which an election is made to amortize pursuant to
section 431130.
18.The loss of an insurance company that is exempt
under section 431201 to the extent that it is included in computing
Arizona gross income on a consolidated return pursuant to section 43947.
19.The amount by which the depreciation or
amortization computed under the internal revenue code with respect to property
for which a credit was taken under section 431169 exceeds the amount of
depreciation or amortization computed pursuant to the internal revenue code on
the Arizona adjusted basis of the property.
20.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under section 431169 and which is sold or otherwise disposed of
during the taxable year exceeds the adjusted basis of the property computed
under section 431169.
21.The amount by which the depreciation or
amortization computed under the internal revenue code with respect to property
for which a credit was taken under either section 431170 or 431170.01
exceeds the amount of depreciation or amortization computed pursuant to the
internal revenue code on the Arizona adjusted basis of the property.
22.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under either section 431170 or 431170.01 and which is
sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year exceeds the adjusted
basis of the property computed under section 431170 or 431170.01,
as applicable.
23.The deduction referred to in section 1341(a)(4)
of the internal revenue code for restoration of a substantial amount held under
a claim of right.
24.The amount by which a capital loss carryover
allowable pursuant to section 1341(b)(5) of the internal revenue code exceeds
the capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 431130.01,
subsectionF.
25.Any amount deducted in computing Arizona taxable
income as expenses for installing solar stub outs or electric vehicle recharge
outlets in this state with respect to which a credit is claimed pursuant to
section 431176.
26.Any wage expenses deducted pursuant to the
internal revenue code for which a credit is claimed under section 431175
and representing net increases in qualified employment positions for employment
of temporary assistance for needy families recipients.
27.Any amount of expenses that were deducted
pursuant to the internal revenue code and for which a credit is claimed under
section 431178.
28.The amount of any deduction that is claimed in
computing Arizona gross income and that represents a donation of a school site
for which a credit is claimed under section 431181.
29.Any amount deducted pursuant to section 170 of
the internal revenue code representing contributions to a school tuition organization the department for school tuition for which a
credit is claimed under section 431183 or 431184. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 43-1183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1183.Credit for contributions for school tuition
A.Beginning from and after June 30, 2006, a credit
is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the taxpayer during the taxable year to a school tuition organization that is certified
the department of revenue for school
tuition purposes pursuant to chapter 15 of this title at the time of donation.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the taxpayer's contributions for the taxable year under subsection A of this
section and is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to subsection
D of this section.
C.The department of revenue:
1.Shall not allow
tax credits accept
contributions under this section and section 20224.06 that
exceed in the aggregate a combined total of ten million dollars in any fiscal
year.Beginning in fiscal year 20072008, the aggregate dollar
amount of the tax credit contribution cap from the
previous fiscal year shall be annually increased by twenty percent.
2.Shall preapprove tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 subject to subsection D of this section.
3.Shall allow the tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 on a first come, first served basis.
D.For the purposes of subsection C, paragraph 2 of
this section, before making a contribution to a school tuition organization, the taxpayer
under this title or title 20 must notify the school tuition organization department of revenue of the total amount of
contributions that the taxpayer intends to make to the school tuition organization.Before
accepting the contribution, the school tuition organization shall request
preapproval from the department of revenue for and request preapproval of the taxpayer's
intended contribution amount. The department of revenue shall preapprove or
deny the requested amount within twenty days after receiving the request from the school tuition organization.If
the department of revenue preapproves the request, the school tuition organization department of revenue shall immediately notify
the taxpayer, and the department of insurance in the case of a credit under
section 20224.06, that the requested amount was preapproved by the
department of revenue. In order to receive a tax credit under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall make the contribution to the school tuition organization department of revenue within twenty days after
receiving notice from the school tuition
organization that the requested amount was preapproved of preapproval.If
the school tuition organization
department of revenue
does not receive the preapproved contribution from the taxpayer within the
required twenty days, the school tuition
organization shall immediately notify the department of revenue shall immediately notify the taxpayer,
and the department of insurance in the case of a credit under section 20224.06,
of the failure, and the
department of revenue shall no longer include this preapproved contribution
amount when calculating the limit prescribed in subsection C, paragraph 1 of
this section.
E.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
F.Co-owners of a business, including corporate
partners in a partnership and stockholders of an S corporation as defined in
section 1361 of the internal revenue code, may each claim only the pro rata
share of the credit allowed under this section based on the ownership
interest. The total of the credits allowed all such owners may not exceed the
amount that would have been allowed a sole owner.
G.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
H.A taxpayer shall not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431184 with respect to the same
contribution.
I.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to
the school tuition organization for the direct benefit of any
specific student.
J.The department of revenue, with the cooperation
of the department of insurance, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe
forms and procedures necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 43-1184, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1184.Credit for contributions for school tuition; displaced
students; students with disabilities
A.Beginning from and after June 30, 2009, a credit
is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the taxpayer during the taxable year to a school tuition organization that is certified
the department of revenue for school
tuition purposes pursuant to chapter 15 of this title at the time of donation.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the taxpayer's contributions for the taxable year under subsection A of this
section and is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to subsection
D of this section.
C.The department of
revenue:
1.Shall not allow tax credits accept contributions under this section and
section 20224.07 that exceed in the aggregate a combined total of five
million dollars in any fiscal year.
2.Shall preapprove tax credits under this section
and section 20224.07 subject to subsection D of this section.
3.Shall allow the tax credits under this section
and section 20224.07 on a first come, first served basis.
D.For the purposes of subsection C, paragraph 2 of
this section, before making a contribution to a school tuition organization, the taxpayer
under this title or title 20 must notify the school tuition organization department of revenue of the total amount of
contributions that the taxpayer intends to make to the school tuition organization.Before
accepting the contribution, the school tuition organization shall request
preapproval from the department of revenue for and request preapproval of the taxpayer's
intended contribution amount. The department of revenue shall preapprove or
deny the requested amount within twenty days after receiving the request from the school tuition organization.If
the department of revenue preapproves the request, the school tuition organization department of revenue shall immediately notify
the taxpayer, and the department of insurance in the case
of a credit under section 20-224.07, that the requested amount
was preapproved by the department of revenue. In order to receive a tax credit
under this subsection, the taxpayer shall make the contribution to the school tuition organization department of revenue within
twenty days after receiving notice from
the school tuition organization that the requested amount was preapproved
of preapproval. If the school tuition organization department of revenue does not
receive the preapproved contribution from the taxpayer within the required
twenty days, the school tuition
organization shall immediately notify the department of revenue shall immediately notify the taxpayer, and
the department of insurance in the case of a credit under section 20-224.07, of
the failure, and the department shall no longer include this
preapproved contribution amount when calculating the limit prescribed in
subsection C, paragraph 1 of this section.
E.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
F.Co-owners of a business, including corporate
partners in a partnership and stockholders of an S corporation as defined in
section 1361 of the internal revenue code, may each claim only the pro rata
share of the credit allowed under this section based on the ownership
interest. The total of the credits allowed all such owners may not exceed the
amount that would have been allowed a sole owner.
G.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
H.A taxpayer shall not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431183 with respect to the same
contribution.
I.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to
the school tuition organization for the direct benefit of any
specific student.
J.The department of revenue shall adopt rules
necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 43, chapter 15, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "SCHOOL TUITION ORGANIZATIONS FOR CORPORATE
CONTRIBUTIONS" to "CORPORATE TAXPAYER CONTRIBUTIONS FOR SCHOOL
TUITION".
Sec.14.Repeal
Section 43-1502,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.15.Section 43-1503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1503.Operational requirements for school tuition income tax
credits
A.A certified
school tuition organization must be established to The department of revenue shall:

1.Receive
contributions from taxpayers for the purposes of income tax credits under
sections 431183 and 431184 and insurance premium tax credits
under sections 20224.06 and 20224.07. and to

2.Pay
educational scholarships or tuition grants to allow students to attend any
qualified school of their parents' or custodians' choice.
B.To be
eligible for certification and retain certification, the school tuition
organization:
1.3.Must Allocate at least ninety ninety-five percent of its the
annual revenue from contributions made for the purposes of sections 20224.06,
20224.07, 431183 and 431184 for educational scholarships
or tuition grants. The department may
retain up to five percent of the annual revenue, which is continuously
appropriated to the department exclusively for the costs of administering the
school tuition program.
2.4.Shall Not limit the availability
of educational scholarships or tuition grants to only students of one school.
3.5.Must allow the department of revenue to
Verify that the educational scholarships and tuition grants that are issued are
awarded to students who attend a qualified school.
4.Must not
knowingly collude with any other school tuition organization to circumvent the
limits of section 431504, subsection C.
5.6.Must Not award educational
scholarships or tuition grants to students who are simultaneously enrolled in a
district school or charter school and a qualified school. 
6.7.Shall Include on the organization's department's website, if one exists, the percentage and total
dollar amount of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the
previous fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose family income meets the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose
family income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this
paragraph but does not exceed one hundred eightyfive percent of the
economic eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch
and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for
free or reducedprice lunches. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 43-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1504.Special provisions; corporate donations for low-income
scholarships; rules
A.A school
tuition organization that receives contributions from a corporation for the
purposes of section 20224.06 or 431183 must The department of revenue shall
use at least ninety per cent ninety-five percent of those the
contributions received for the purposes
of section 20-224.06 or 43-1183 to provide educational
scholarships or tuition grants only to children whose family income does not
exceed one hundred eighty-five per cent percent of the income limit
required to qualify a child for reduced
price reduced-price
lunches under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United
States Code sections 1751 through 1785) and to whom any of the following
applies:
1.Attended a governmental primary or secondary school
as a full-time student as defined in section 15901 or attended a
preschool program that offers services to students with disabilities at a
governmental school for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal year or one
full semester and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified school.
2.Enroll in a qualified school in a kindergarten
program or a preschool program that offers services to students with
disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a member of the armed forces
of the United States who is stationed in this state pursuant to military
orders.
4.Received an educational scholarship or tuition
grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection or chapter 16, article 1 of
this title if the children continue to attend a qualified school in a
subsequent year.
B.A child is eligible to receive an educational
scholarship or tuition grant under subsection A of this section if the child
meets the criteria to receive a reduced
price reduced-price
lunch but does not actually claim that benefit.
C.In 2006, a
school tuition organization shall not issue an educational
scholarship or a tuition grant for the purposes of section 20224.06 or
431183 in an amount that exceeds
shall not exceed four
thousand two hundred dollars for students in a disabled preschool or kindergarten program, in A PRESCHOOL PROGRAM THAT OFFERS SERVICES
TO STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES or in grades one through eight or five thousand
five hundred dollars for students in grades nine through twelve.In
each year after 2006, the limitation amount for a scholarship or a grant under
this subsection shall be increased by one hundred dollars.
D.A school
tuition organization shall require that Student beneficiaries shall use the educational
scholarships or tuition grants on a fulltime basis.If a
child leaves the school before completing an entire school year, the school
shall refund a prorated amount of the educational scholarship or tuition grant
to the school tuition organization that
issued the scholarship or grant department of revenue.The school tuition organization department shall allocate any
refunds it receives under this subsection for educational scholarships or
tuition grants.
E.Students who receive an educational scholarship
or tuition grant under this section shall be allowed to attend any qualified
school of their parents' choice.
F.The department of revenue, with the cooperation
of the department of insurance, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe
forms and procedures necessary for the administration of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 43-1505, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1505.Special provisions; corporate donations for displaced
students and students with disabilities; definition
A.A school
tuition organization that receives contributions for the purposes of section 20224.07
or 431184 must The
department of revenue shall use at least ninety per cent ninety-five percent of those the
contributions received for the purposes
of section 20-224.07 or 43-1184 to provide educational
scholarships or tuition grants to qualified students. 
B.The amount of an educational scholarship or a
tuition grant that is issued by a school
tuition organization under this section shall not exceed the cost
of tuition for the student to attend the qualified school or ninety per cent percent of the amount of state aid that
otherwise would be computed for the student as provided in title 15, chapter 9,
article 5, whichever is less. On request from a school tuition organization the department of revenue, the department of
education shall provide to the school
tuition organization in a timely manner the amount computed for
the student under this subsection that represents the ninety per cent
percent limitation prescribed in this subsection.
C.A school
tuition organization shall require that Student beneficiaries shall use the educational
scholarships or tuition grants on a fulltime basis. If a child leaves
the school before completing an entire school year, the school shall refund a
prorated amount of the educational scholarship or tuition grant to the school tuition organization that issued the
scholarship or grant department
of revenue. The school
tuition organization department
shall allocate any refunds it receives under this subsection for educational
scholarships or tuition grants.
D.Qualified students who receive an educational
scholarship or tuition grant under this section shall be allowed to attend any
qualified school of their custodians' choice.
E.For the purposes of this section, "qualified
student" means a student, including a student who previously qualified for
an educational scholarship or tuition grant under this section and continues to
attend a qualified school, who has been either:
1.Placed in foster care pursuant to title 8,
chapter 4 at any time before the student graduates from high school or obtains
a general equivalency diploma.
2.Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act (29 United States Code section 794) or identified
at any time by a school district as a child with a disability as defined in
section 15761 or a child with a disability who is eligible to receive
services from a school district under section 15763. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 43-1506, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1506.Annual report; posting on website
On or before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization shall report electronically
to the department, in a form prescribed by the department, the department of revenue shall post
the following information on its
website, separately compiled and identified for the purposes of
sections 20224.06, 20224.07, 431183 and 431184:
1.The name,
address and contact person of the school tuition organization.
2.1.The total number
of contributions received for the
purposes of this chapter during the previous fiscal year.
3.2.The total dollar
amount of contributions received for
the purposes of this chapter during the previous fiscal year.
4.3.The total number
of children awarded educational scholarships or tuition grants under this chapter during the previous fiscal
year.
5.4.The total dollar
amount of:
(a)Educational scholarships and tuition grants
distributed under this chapter
during the previous fiscal year.
(b)Money being held for identified students'
scholarships and tuition grants under
this chapter in future years.
6.5.The cost of
audits pursuant to section 431507 paid during the fiscal year.
7.6.The percentage
and total dollar amount of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded under this chapter during the
previous fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose family income meets the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose family income exceeds the
threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this paragraph but does not exceed
one hundred eighty-five percent of the economic eligibility requirements
established under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United
States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice
lunches.
8.7.For each school
to which educational scholarships or tuition grants were awarded under this chapter during the previous fiscal
year:
(a)The name and address of the school.
(b)The number of educational scholarships and
tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal year.
(c)The total dollar amount of educational
scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal year.
9.The names,
job titles and annual salaries of the three employees who receive the highest
annual salaries from the school tuition organization. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 43-1507, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1507.Audit; costs
A.On or before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization that received
one million dollars or more in total donations in the previous fiscal year
shall provide for the
auditor general shall conduct a financial audit of the organization operation of the department of revenue for the purposes of
this chapter. The audit must be conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and must evaluate the organization's department's compliance with section 431503,
subsection B, paragraph 1 3.The audit must be conducted by an independent certified
public accountant licensed in this state.The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with
shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships
prescribed by generally accepted auditing standards.
B.On or
before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization that
received less than one million dollars in total donations in the previous
fiscal year shall provide for a financial review of the organization. The
review must be conducted in accordance with standards for accounting and review
services and must evaluate the organization's compliance with the fiscal
requirements of this article. The review must be conducted by an independent
certified public accountant licensed in this state.The certified
public accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated
with shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships prescribed
by generally accepted auditing standards.
C.Within five
days after receiving the audit or financial review, the school tuition
organization shall file a signed copy of the audit or financial review with the
department.
D.B.The school tuition organization department shall pay the fees and costs of the certified public accountant auditor general under this
section from the organization's operating
department's monies retained for the purposes of administering
this chapter. The fees and costs shall be excluded from the
calculation of total revenues spent on scholarships and tuition grants. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 43, chapter 16, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "SCHOOL TUITION ORGANIZATIONS FOR INDIVIDUAL
CONTRIBUTIONS" to "INDIVIDUAL TAXPAYER CONTRIBUTIONS FOR SCHOOL
TUITION".
Sec.21.Repeal
Section 43-1602,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.22.Section 43-1603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1603.Operational requirements for school tuition income tax
credits; notice; qualified schools
A.A certified school tuition organization must be established
to The department of
revenue shall:
1.Receive contributions from
taxpayers for the purposes of income tax credits under sections 431089
and 431089.03. and to 
2.Pay educational scholarships or
tuition grants to allow students to attend any qualified school of their
parents' choice.
B.To be eligible for certification and retain
certification, the school tuition organization:
1.3.Must Allocate at least ninety ninety-five
percent of its annual revenue from contributions made for the purposes of
sections 431089 and 431089.03 for educational scholarships or
tuition grants. The department may
retain up to five percent of the annual revenue, which is continuously
appropriated to the department exclusively for the costs of administering the
school tuition program.
2.4.Shall Not limit the availability of educational
scholarships or tuition grants to only students of one school.
3.May allow donors to recommend student
beneficiaries, but shall not award, designate or reserve scholarships solely on
the basis of donor recommendations.
4.Shall not allow donors to designate student
beneficiaries as a condition of any contribution to the organization, or
facilitate, encourage or knowingly permit the exchange of beneficiary student
designations in violation of section 431089, subsection F.
5.Shall Include
on the organization's department's website, if one exists, the percentage
and total dollar amount of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded
during the previous fiscal year to:
(a)Students whose
family income meets the economic eligibility requirements established under the
national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections
1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose
family income exceeds the threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this
paragraph but does not exceed one hundred eighty-five percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or
reducedprice lunches.
6.Must Not award educational scholarships or
tuition grants to students who are simultaneously enrolled in a district school
or charter school and a qualified school.
B.The department may allow donors to recommend
student beneficiaries, but shall not:
1.Award, designate or reserve scholarships
solely on the basis of donor recommendations.
2.Allow donors to designate student
beneficiaries as a condition of any contribution, or facilitate, encourage or
knowingly permit the exchange of beneficiary student designations in violation
of section 431089, subsection F.
C.A school tuition organization the department shall include the following
notice in any printed materials soliciting donations, in applications for
scholarships and on its website, if one exists:
Notice
A school tuition organization The department of revenue
cannot award, restrict or reserve scholarships solely on the basis of a donor's
recommendation.
A taxpayer may not
claim a tax credit if the taxpayer agrees to swap donations with another
taxpayer to benefit either taxpayer's own dependent.
D.In evaluating
applications and awarding, designating or reserving scholarships, a school tuition organization the department:
1.Shall not award,
designate or reserve a scholarship solely on the recommendation of any person
contributing money to the organization,
but may consider the recommendation among other factors.
2.Shall consider the
financial need of applicants.
E.A taxpayer's contribution
to a school tuition organization
that exceeds the amount of the credit allowed by section 431089 but does
not exceed the amount of the credit allowed by section 431089.03 is
considered a contribution pursuant to section 431089.03. A school tuition organization The department must use at least ninety ninety-five percent of contributions made
pursuant to section 431089.03 for educational scholarships or tuition
grants for students to whom any of the following applies:
1.Attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a full-time student as defined in
section 15901 or attended a preschool program that offers services to
students with disabilities at a governmental school for at least ninety days of
the prior fiscal year and transferred from a governmental school to a qualified
school.
2.Enrolls in a
qualified school in a kindergarten program or a preschool program that offers
services to students with disabilities.
3.Is the dependent of a
member of the armed forces of the United States who is stationed in this state
pursuant to military orders.
4.Received an
educational scholarship or tuition grant under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this
subsection or under chapter 15 of this title if the student continues to attend
a qualified school in a subsequent year.
F.In awarding
educational scholarships or tuition grants from contributions made pursuant to
section 431089.03, a school
tuition organization the
department shall give priority to students and siblings of
students on a waiting list for scholarships if the school tuition organization
maintains a waiting list.
G.If an individual
educational scholarship or tuition grant exceeds the school's tuition, the
amount in excess shall be returned to the school tuition organization that made the award or grant department.The school tuition organization department may allocate the
returned monies as a multiyear award for that student and report the award
pursuant to section 431604, paragraph 5 4,
subdivision (b) or may allocate the returned monies for educational
scholarships or tuition grants for other students. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 43-1604, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1604.Annual report; posting on website
On or before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization shall report electronically
to the department, in a form prescribed by the department, the department of revenue shall post
the following information on its
website, separately compiled and identified for the purposes of
sections 431089 and 431089.03:
1.The name,
address and contact person of the school tuition organization.
2.1.The total number
of contributions received for the purposes
of this chapter during the previous fiscal year.
3.2.The total dollar
amount of contributions received for
the purposes of this chapter during the previous fiscal year.
4.3.The total number
of children awarded educational scholarships or tuition grants under this chapter during the previous fiscal
year.
5.4.The total dollar
amount of:
(a)Educational scholarships and tuition grants
distributed under this chapter
during the previous fiscal year.
(b)Money being held for identified students'
scholarships and tuition grants under
this chapter in future years.
6.5.The cost of
audits pursuant to section 431605 paid during the fiscal year.
7.6.The total dollar
amount of educational scholarships and tuition grants awarded under this chapter during the previous fiscal
year to:
(a)Students whose family income meets the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or reduced price reducedprice lunches.
(b)Students whose family income exceeds the
threshold prescribed by subdivision (a) of this paragraph but does not exceed
one hundred eighty-five per cent percent of the economic
eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch and child
nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or reduced price reducedprice lunches.
8.7.For each school
to which educational scholarships or tuition grants were awarded under this chapter during the previous fiscal
year:
(a)The name and address of the school.
(b)The number of educational scholarships and
tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal year.
(c)The total dollar amount of educational
scholarships and tuition grants awarded during the previous fiscal year.
9.The names,
job titles and annual salaries of the three employees who receive the highest
annual salaries from the school tuition organization. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 43-1605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1605.Audits; costs
A.On or before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization that received
one million dollars or more in total donations in the previous fiscal year
shall provide for the
auditor general shall conduct a financial audit of the organization operation of the department of revenue for the purposes of
this chapter. The audit must be conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and must evaluate the organization's department's compliance with section 431603,
subsection B A, paragraph 1 3.The audit must be conducted by an independent
certified public accountant licensed in this state. The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with
shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships prescribed
by generally accepted auditing standards.
B.On or
before September 30 of each year, each school tuition organization that
received less than one million dollars in total donations in the previous
fiscal year shall provide for a financial review of the organization. The
review must be conducted in accordance with standards for accounting and review
services and must evaluate the organization's compliance with the fiscal
requirements of this article. The review must be conducted by an independent
certified public accountant licensed in this state.The certified
public accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated
with shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships
prescribed by generally accepted auditing standards.
C.Within five
days after receiving the audit or financial review the school tuition
organization shall file a signed copy of the audit or financial review with the
department.
D.B.The school tuition organization department shall pay the fees and costs of the certified public accountant auditor general under this
section from the organization's operating
department's monies retained for the purposes of administering
this chapter. The fees and costs shall be excluded from the
calculation of total revenues spent on scholarships and tuition grants. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Effective date
This act is effective from and after June 30, 2017.

