







REFERENCE TITLE: health care providers; religious beliefs







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2664









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Cardenas, Mach, Plumlee: Fernandez, Gabaldn, Kopec, Rios, Wheeler





AN ACT

aMENDING Title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 33; RELATING TO PATIENT
INFORMATION.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 33, to read:
CHAPTER 33
PATIENT REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE OPTIONS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-3301.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Clinical
privileges" means privileges with or membership on the medical staff of a
health care entity and other circumstances pertaining to the furnishing of
health care services under which a physician or other health care practitioner
is allowed to furnish such care by a health care entity.
2."Health
care entity" means any of the following:
(a)A hospital that is
licensed to provide health care services in this state.
(b)An entity that
provides health care services and that follows a formal peer review process for
the purpose of furthering quality health care.
(c)Any health care
facility or institution that is licensed pursuant to chapter 4 of this title.
(d)A health professional as defined in section 323201
who provides reproductive health care services to humans.
3."Health
care practitioner" means an individual, other than a physician, who is
licensed or otherwise authorized by this state to provide any type of
reproductive health care services.
4."Health
care services" means:
(a)Inpatient hospital
services, including inpatient critical access hospital services or extended
care services.
(b)Outpatient diagnostic
or therapeutic items or services, outpatient surgical services or outpatient
medical services with a physician or other licensed health care practitioner
who has clinical privileges.
(c)Any services provided by a health care practitioner.
5."Hospital"
means an entity that is primarily engaged in providing, by or under the
supervision of physicians, inpatient diagnostic services and therapeutic
services for the medical diagnosis, treatment and care of injured, disabled or
sick persons or rehabilitation services for the rehabilitation of injured,
disabled or sick persons and that maintains clinical records on all patients
and has bylaws in effect with respect to its staff of physicians.
6."Physician"
means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 and
who provides any type of reproductive health care services.
7."Religious
beliefs" means any set of philosophical or religious beliefs, guidelines,
decrees or directives or any other instructions determining patient care that is not based on legal, peer-reviewed or
scientifically accepted standards of health care and that may be imposed on a
health care entity through employment or clinical privileges. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3302.Health care entities; religious beliefs; disclosure to
patients and state agencies; applications for state grants
A.Not later
than twelve months after the effective date of this section, a health care
entity that does not provide certain health care services based on the entity's
religious beliefs shall adopt a policy that provides a complete list of health
care services that the health care entity will not provide to patients based on
the entity's religious beliefs. Before treatment is initiated or, in the case
of an emergency, as soon as the patient is capable or the patient's
representative is available, the health care entity that adopted such a policy
shall provide a written notice to the patient or the patient's representative
that includes the list of health care services that will not be provided by the
entity based on the entity's religious beliefs. The patient or patient's
representative shall acknowledge receipt of the notice that includes the list
of excluded health care services.
B.Not later
than twelve months after the effective date of this section, a health care
entity that does not provide health care services based on religious beliefs
shall inform any state or federal agency that licenses or otherwise regulates
the health care entity of all health care services that are not provided.State
agencies that enroll or otherwise oversee the application of health care
entities into state or federal health care reimbursement programs shall amend
the application process to include a requirement that health care entities
disclose any health care services the entity does not provide based on the
entity's religious beliefs.
C.A health
care entity shall provide a list of the health care services that the health
care entity does not provide based on religious beliefs when applying for any
state grant that is related to providing any kind of health care service. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3303.Health plan providers; insurers; religious beliefs;
availability of health care services
A.Not later
than eighteen months after the effective date of this section, group health
plan providers and health insurers offering group or individual health
insurance coverage shall provide enrollees with a list of any health care
entity within the provider's or insurer's network of health care providers that
does not provide certain health care services based on religious beliefs and
provide a list of health care services that will not be provided by each health
care entity listed. The information required in this subsection shall also be
available on the provider's and insurer's website.
B.Not later
than twelve months after the effective date of this section, a health care
entity shall provide a complete list of any health care services that the
health care entity will not provide based on religious beliefs to all group
health plan providers and health insurers offering group or individual health
insurance coverage from whom the health care entity seeks and accepts
payments. Each health care entity shall prominently list on the entity's
website the health care services that will not be provided to patients based on
the entity's religious beliefs and shall provide the list of excluded health
care services to any person on request. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Patient's Right to Know
Act".

