







REFERENCE TITLE: fireworks; permitted uses; regulation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2602









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli: Finchem, Senators Pancrazi, Shooter





AN ACT

Amending sections
361601, 361605 and 361606, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to fireworks.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-1601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-1601.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."APA 871" means the American
pyrotechnics association standard 871, standard for construction and
approval for transportation of fireworks, novelties and theatrical
pyrotechnics, December 1, 2001 version.
2."Consumer firework" means small
firework devices that contain restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition
designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion and that
comply with the construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations
prescribed in 49 Code of Federal Regulations parts 172 and 173, regulations of
the United States consumer product safety commission as prescribed in 16 Code
of Federal Regulations parts 1500 and 1507 and the APA 871.
3."Display firework" means large firework
devices that are explosive materials intended for use in fireworks displays and
designed to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration or
detonation as prescribed by 49 Code of Federal Regulations part 172,
regulations of the United States consumer product safety commission as
prescribed in 16 Code of Federal Regulations parts 1500 and 1507 and the APA 871.
4."Fireworks":
(a)Means any combustible or explosive composition,
substance or combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, that is a consumer firework or display firework.
(b)Does not include:
(i)Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper caps containing not more than twentyfive
hundredths grains of explosive compound are used if constructed so that the
hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion.
(ii)Toy pistol paper caps that contain less than
twentyhundredths grains of explosive mixture, or fixed ammunition or
primers therefor.
(iii)Federally deregulated novelty items that are
known as snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke
devices and sparklers.
(iv)Permissible consumer fireworks.
(v)Fullline consumer
fireworks.
5."Fullline
consumer fireworks" means the following types of consumer fireworks:
(a)All aerial fireworks
as defined by the APA 87-1, section 3.1.2, including sky rockets and bottle
rockets, missile-type rockets, helicopters and aerial spinners, roman candles,
mine and shell devices and aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes.
(b)Chasers as defined by
the APA 871, section 3.1.3.2.
5.6."Governing
body" means the board of supervisors of a county as to the area within the
county but without the corporate limits of an incorporated city or town and
means the governing body of an incorporated city or town as to the area within
its corporate limits.
6.7."NFPA
1124" means the national fire protection association code for the
manufacture, transportation, storage,
and retail sales of fireworks and pyrotechnic articles, 2013
2016 edition as published
in August 2012.
7.8."Permissible
consumer fireworks":
(a)Means the
following types of consumer fireworks as defined by the APA 871:
(i)Ground and handheld sparkling devices.
(ii)Cylindrical fountains.
(iii)Cone fountains.
(iv)Illuminating torches.
(v)Wheels.
(vi)Ground spinners.
(vii)Flitter sparklers.
(viii)Toy smoke devices.
(ix)Wire sparklers or dipped sticks.
(x)Firecrackers.
(x)(xi)Multiple tube ground and handheld
sparkling devices, cylindrical fountains, cone fountains and illuminating
torches manufactured in accordance with section 3.5 of the APA 871.
(b)Does not include anything that is designed or
intended to rise into the air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly
above the ground, including firework items defined by the APA 871 and
known as firecrackers, bottle rockets, sky rockets, missile-type rockets,
helicopters, aerial spinners, torpedoes, roman candles, mine devices, shell
devices and aerial shell kits or reloadable tubes.
8.9."Person"
includes an individual, partnership, firm or corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 36-1605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-1605.Permitted uses; violations; civil penalties
A.This article does not prohibit:
1.The sale at wholesale by a resident wholesaler,
dealer or jobber of fireworks that are not prohibited by this article.
2.The sale of fireworks to bona fide wholesalers,
dealers or jobbers that are to be and are shipped taken
directly out of the state, if the seller of fireworks under this paragraph
maintains for a period of five years and makes available on request to the
state fire marshal or local fire marshal, as applicable, the following
information:
(a)The name and address of each bona fide
wholesaler, dealer or jobber for which a shipment is to be and is made taken directly out of the state, including
each wholesaler's, dealer's and jobber's applicable state fireworks permit.
(b)An invoice for each sale for which a shipment is
to be and is made taken directly out of the
state that contains a detailed listing of the products sold for the shipment
that is to be and is made taken directly out of the
state.
(c)A bill of lading for each shipment that is to be
and is shipped taken directly out of the
state that contains both of the following:
(i)The name and address of the out-of-state shipment destination.
(ii)The name of the private carrier or individual making the outofstate
delivery.
(d)A statement from each bona fide wholesaler,
dealer or jobber purchasing fireworks that are to be and are shipped
taken directly out of the state that contains both of the
following:
(i)The purpose for which the fireworks that are to
be and are shipped taken directly out of the
state are to be used, including the location where the fireworks will be used.
(ii)That the fireworks that are not permissible
fireworks in this state are for sale or use only outside of this state.
3.The use of fireworks by railroads or other
transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination.
4.The sale or use of explosives for blasting or
other legitimate industrial purposes.
5.The use of fireworks or explosives, or both, by farmers,
ranchers and their employees who are regulated under title 3, and by state and
federal employees who manage wildlife resources, to rally, drive or otherwise
disperse concentrations of wildlife for the purpose of protecting property or
wildlife, if the seller of fireworks for use under this paragraph maintains for
a period of five years and makes available on request to the state fire marshal
or local fire marshal, as applicable, all of the following information:
(a)The name and address of each person or business
purchasing fireworks for use pursuant to this paragraph.
(b)A copy of one of the following types or
categories of current licenses issued by the Arizona department of agriculture
for each person or business purchasing fireworks for use pursuant to this
paragraph:
(i)Dairy and milk license.
(ii)Egg and egg products license.
(iii)Feedlot license.
(iv)Citrus, fruit and vegetable license.
(v)Brand license.
(vi)Pesticide use license.
(c)A statement from each person or business purchasing
fireworks for use pursuant to this paragraph that contains the purpose for
which the fireworks are to be used, including the location where the fireworks
will be used.
6.The sale of permissible consumer fireworks by a
retail establishment if the retail establishment complies with the rules
adopted pursuant to section 361609.
7.The use of permissible consumer fireworks by the
general public, unless the use is prohibited by a governing body of an
incorporated city or town.
8.The
sale of fullline consumer fireworks to outofstate
residents and instate residents who sign a document indicating that they
will remove the fullline consumer fireworks from this state within fortyeight
hours after the purchase. The use of fullline consumer fireworks is
prohibited in this state without a permit issued by a local jurisdiction in
this state. Full-line consumer fireworks shall be sold only from a permanent
structure with a space that is open to the public, that does not exceed ten
thousand square feet, that is equipped with an appropriate fire suppression
system and that otherwise meets all the requirements of a consumer fireworks
retail sales facility as defined in NFPA 1124.
B.A person who fails to maintain or to make
available on request records information as required by
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is subject to a civil penalty of five
hundred dollars per violation.A person who attempts to purchase
fireworks that are to be and are shipped taken directly out of the
state pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 of this subsection section, other than permissible fireworks,
for use in this state is subject to a civil penalty of one hundred fifty
dollars per violation.A seller of fireworks who attempts either to
sell fireworks pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section, other
than permissible fireworks, for use in this state or to aid a purchaser in
purchasing fireworks pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section,
other than permissible fireworks, for use in this state is subject to a civil
penalty of one thousand dollars per violation, and the state fire marshal or
local fire marshal, as applicable, may prohibit the seller from selling
permissible fireworks in this state or the applicable jurisdiction.
C.A person who fails to maintain or to make
available on request records as required by subsection A, paragraph 5 of this
section is subject to a civil penalty of five hundred dollars per violation. A
person who attempts to use fireworks purchased pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section for a use other than the use authorized pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section is subject to a civil penalty of one
hundred fifty dollars per violation.A seller of fireworks under
subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section who attempts either to sell fireworks
to a purchaser for use in this state other than the use authorized by
subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section or to aid a purchaser in purchasing
fireworks for use in this state other than as authorized by subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section is subject to a civil penalty of one thousand
dollars per violation, and the state fire marshal or local fire marshal, as
applicable, may prohibit the seller from selling permissible fireworks in this
state or the applicable jurisdiction. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-1606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-1606.Consumer fireworks regulation; state
preemption; further regulation of fireworks by local jurisdiction
A.The sale and use of permissible consumer
fireworks and fullline consumer
fireworks are of statewide concern. The regulation of
permissible consumer fireworks and fullline
consumer fireworks pursuant to this article and their sale or use
is not subject to further regulation by a governing body, except as follows:
1.In a county with a population of more than five
hundred thousand persons, a city or town within its corporate limits or the
county within the unincorporated areas of the county may do all of the
following:
(a)Regulate, consistent with the standards set
forth in NFPA 1124, the sale of permissible consumer fireworks and fullline consumer fireworks within
its corporate limits.
(b)Prohibit the sale of permissible consumer
fireworks on days other than May 20 through July 6 and December 10 through
January 3 of each year.
(c)Prohibit the use of permissible consumer
fireworks on days other than June 24 through July 6 and December 24 through
January 3 of each year.
(d)Prohibit on all
days the use of permissible consumer fireworks and fullline consumer fireworks within
a one mile one-mile radius of the border of preservation
lands owned by a city or town that has purchased more than fifteen thousand
acres of land for preservation purposes. 
2.In a county with a population of less than five
hundred thousand persons, a city or town within its corporate limits or the
county within the unincorporated areas of the county may do all of the
following:
(a)Regulate, consistent with the standards set
forth in NFPA 1124, the sale of permissible consumer fireworks and fullline consumer fireworks.
(b)Prohibit the sale of permissible consumer
fireworks on days other than May 20 through July 6 and December 10 through
January 3 of each year. The sale of permissible consumer fireworks may be
prohibited on days between May 20 through July 6 and December 10 through
January 3 of each year if a federal or state agency implements a stage one or
higher fire restriction. Any prohibition during those dates is limited to only
the dates when the stage one or higher fire restriction is in place.
(c)Prohibit the use of permissible consumer
fireworks on days other than June 24 through July 6 and December 24 through
January 3 of each year. The use of permissible consumer fireworks may be
prohibited during June 24 through July 6 and December 24 through January 3 of
each year if a federal or state agency implements a stage one or higher fire
restriction. Any prohibition during those dates is limited to only the dates
when the stage one or greater fire restriction is in place.
(d)Prohibit on all days the use of permissible
consumer fireworks and fullline
consumer fireworks within a one mile one-mile
radius of the border of preservation lands owned by a city or town that has
purchased more than fifteen thousand acres of land for preservation purposes.
B.A governing body that chooses to regulate,
consistent with the requirements set forth in NFPA 1124 and subsection A of
this section, the sale or use of permissible consumer fireworks may not require
any additional signage requirements for the sale or use of permissible consumer
fireworks other than those signage requirements stipulated in NFPA 1124, except
that additional signage that is eight and onehalf inches by eleven
inches in size, that is
on cardstock paper in landscape orientation and that contains the following
language on a contrasting background may be posted by the retail sales display
of permissible consumer fireworks:
State
of Arizona
Consumer
Fireworks Regulations
Arizona
Revised Statutes section 361601, et al.
The
use of permissible consumer fireworks
as
defined under state law is allowed:
June
24 - July 6 and December 24 - January 3
The
sale of permissible consumer fireworks
as
defined under state law is allowed:
May
20 - July 6 and December 10 - January 3
All
other fireworks are prohibited, except
as
authorized by local fire department permit.
The
sale and use of novelties known as snappers (pop-its),
party
poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices and
sparklers
are permitted at all times.
Permissible
consumer fireworks may not be sold to
persons
under sixteen years of age.
Check
with your local fire department for additional
regulations
and dates before using.
C.This article does not prohibit the imposition by
ordinance of further regulations and prohibitions by a governing body on the
sale, use and possession of fireworks other than permissible consumer fireworks and fullline consumer fireworks.A
governing body may not allow or authorize the sale, use or possession of any
fireworks in violation of this article.
END_STATUTE

