







REFERENCE TITLE: dual language education; study committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2609









Introduced by
Representative
  Saldate





AN ACT

Establishing the
dual language education program study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Dual language education program study committee;
membership; duties; report; delayed repeal; definition
A.The dual language education program study
committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.The following persons who are appointed by the
speaker of the house of representatives:
(a)Two members of the house of representatives who
are members of different political parties. The speaker shall designate one of
these members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
(b)One person who currently teaches English
language learners in a school district or charter school in this state.
(c)One education research professional who is
employed at a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents
and who has expertise in English language learning, dual language education or
academic achievement.
(d)A member of the community who has expertise in
linguistics.
2.The following persons who are appointed by the
president of the senate:
(a)Two members of the senate who are members of
different political parties. The president shall designate one of these
members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
(b)One person who currently teaches in a dual
language education program in a school district or charter school in this
state.
(c)One education research professional who is
employed at a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents
and who has expertise in English language learning, dual language education or
academic achievement.
3.The superintendent of public instruction or the
superintendent's designee.
B.The purpose of the study committee is to study
and analyze research-based data on the impacts of dual language education
programs and their effectiveness in educating English language learners and
fluent English students.
C.The study committee shall research all of the
following:
1.The impacts and any benefits of dual language
education programs for English language learners and fluent English students,
including impacts on student achievement.
2.The impacts and growth of dual language education
programs in the United States over the past decade.
3.The impacts of dual language education programs
on English language learners' educational and professional achievements.
4.The impacts of dual language education programs
on biliteracy and crosscultural attitudes in English language learners and
fluent English students.
5.The costs of offering dual language education
programs relative to other programs for English language learners.
6.The capacity of school districts and charter
schools in this state to teach content in languages other than English.
D.In examining the impacts prescribed in subsection
C of this section, the study committee shall use research-based data.
E.The study committee may:
1.Request information, data and reports from any
county or state agency or political subdivision of this state. Information
shall be provided electronically if possible.
2.Hold hearings and receive testimony from
community members.
F.On request of the study committee, an agency of
this state, a political subdivision of this state and any school district or
charter school in this state shall provide the study committee with its
services, equipment, documents, personnel and facilities to the extent possible
without cost to the committee.
G.The study committee shall convene at any time and
in any place deemed necessary or convenient by the cochairpersons, and all
meetings shall be open to the public.
H. Members of the study committee are not eligible to receive
compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title
38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
I.On or before December 31, 2016, the study
committee shall submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the
governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the
senate and the superintendent of public instruction and shall provide a copy of
this report to the secretary of state.
J.This section is repealed from and after June 30,
2017.
K.For the purposes of this section,"dual
language education program" means any program that provides kindergarten,
primary or secondary education at a school district or charter school in this
state and that teaches the content in English and a student's primary language.

