







REFERENCE TITLE: criminal justice commission; membership;
  report







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2627









Introduced by
Representatives
  Meyer, Alston, Andrade, Bolding, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Hale, Mach,
  Mendez, Plumlee, Rios, Saldate, Velasquez, Wheeler: Benally, Clark, Espinoza,
  Friese, Gonzales, Kopec, McCune Davis, Otondo





AN ACT

amending section
412404, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona criminal justice
commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2404, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2404.Arizona criminal justice commission; members;
compensation; terms; meetings
A.The Arizona criminal justice commission is
established consisting of the following members:
1.The attorney general or the attorney general's
designee.
2.The director of the department of public safety
or the director's designee.
3.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
4.Fourteen
eighteen members who are
appointed by the governor or their designees. No more than seven nine
of these members may be from the same political party.
5.The administrative director of the courts or the
director's designee.
6.The chairman of the board of executive clemency
or the chairman's designee.
B.The members who are appointed pursuant to subsection
A, paragraph 4 of this section shall
include at least one police chief, one county attorney, one public defender and one county sheriff
from a county with a population of one million five hundred thousand or more
persons, one police chief, one county attorney and one county sheriff from a
county with a population equal to or greater than eight hundred thousand
persons but fewer than one million five hundred thousand persons and one police
chief, one county attorney, one public
defender and one county sheriff from counties with a population
of fewer than eight hundred thousand persons. The remaining members shall
include one crime victim advocate, one
former prison inmate who advocates for prisoner rights, one law
enforcement leader, one former judge, one mayor, one member of a county board
of supervisors and one
chief probation officer.
C.Members who are appointed pursuant to subsection
A, paragraph 4 of this section shall
serve for terms of two years terminating on the convening of the first regular
session of the legislature. Any appointive member who ceases to be a member of
the body the member represents on the commission is deemed to have resigned.
Appointments to fill a vacancy shall be made in the same manner as the original
appointment.
D.The commission shall meet and organize by
electing from among its membership such officers as are deemed necessary or
advisable.The commission shall meet at least once during each
calendar quarter and additionally as the chairman deems necessary, and a
majority of the members constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business.
E.Members of the commission are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Arizona criminal justice commission; report on
recommendations for criminal justice reform; delayed repeal 
A.Pursuant to section 412405, Arizona
Revised Statutes, the Arizona criminal justice commission shall conduct a
comprehensive review of this state's sentencing and corrections data and submit
a report to the legislature on or before December 31, 2016 that includes databased
policy recommendations to:
1.Reduce prisoner recidivism rates.
2.Improve the success of offenders who are released
from prison by expanding reentry and treatment services.
3.Revise sentencing laws to hold defendants
accountable while still keeping communities safe.
4.Reduce sentences for nonviolent offenses to reduce
the prison population.
5.Prioritize the use of prison beds for offenders
who commit violent crimes instead of nonviolent crimes.
6.Improve probation and parole supervision.
7.Ensure oversight and accountability in the
criminal justice system.
B.The commission shall provide a copy of the report
to the governor, the attorney general and the secretary of state.
C.This section is repealed from and after June 30,
2017.

