







REFERENCE TITLE: personal property tax; exemption







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2031









Introduced by
Representative
  Mesnard





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of Arizona; amending article IX, section 2,
Constitution of Arizona; relating to property tax.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Article IX, section 2, Constitution of Arizona,
is proposed to be amended as follows if approved by the voters and on
proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE2.Property subject to taxation; exemptions
Section 2.(1)There shall be exempt
from taxation all federal, state, county and municipal property.
(2)Property of educational, charitable and
religious associations or institutions not used or held for profit may be
exempt from taxation by law.
(3)Public debts, as evidenced by the bonds of
Arizona, or its counties, municipalities
or other subdivisions, shall also be exempt from taxation.
(4)All household goods owned by the user thereof
and used solely for noncommercial purposes shall be exempt from taxation, and
such person entitled to such exemption shall not be required to take any
affirmative action to receive the benefit of such exemption.
(5)Stocks of raw or finished materials,
unassembled parts, work in process or finished products constituting the
inventory of a retailer or wholesaler located within the state and principally
engaged in the resale of such materials, parts or products, whether or not for
resale to the ultimate consumer, shall be exempt from taxation.
(6)The legislature may exempt personal property
that is used for agricultural purposes or in a trade or business from taxation
in a manner provided by law, except that the exemption does not apply to any
amount of the full cash value of the personal property of a taxpayer that exceeds
fifty thousand dollars.The legislature may provide by law to
increase the exempt amount according to annual variations in a designated
national inflation index.
(7)Notwithstanding
subsection (6) of this section, taxes shall not be levied on the first two
million four hundred thousand dollars of full cash value of personal property
that is initially acquired, as defined by law, during or after 2016 and that is
used for agricultural purposes or in a trade or business.The
legislature may provide by law for increasing the two million four hundred
thousand dollar exempt amount.
(7)(8)The legislature
may exempt the property of cemeteries that are set apart and used to inter
deceased human beings from taxation in a manner provided by law.
(8)(9)There shall be
further exempt from taxation the property of each honorably discharged airman,
soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue marine service, the
coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the component of auxiliary
of any thereof, resident of this state, in the amount of:
(a)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(c)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(e)No exemption if the total assessment of such
person exceeds five thousand dollars.
No such exemption shall be made for such person unless such
person shall have served at least sixty days in the military or naval service
of the United States during World War I or prior wars and shall have been a
resident of this state prior to September 1, 1945.
(9)(10)There shall be
further exempt from taxation as herein provided the property of each honorably
discharged airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue
marine service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the
component of auxiliary of any thereof, resident of this state, where such
person has a serviceconnected disability as determined by the United
States veterans administration or its successor.No such exemption
shall be made for such person unless he shall have been a resident of this
state prior to September 1, 1945 or unless such person shall have been a
resident of this state for at least four years prior to his original entry into
service as an airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue
marine service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the
component of auxiliary of any thereof. The property of such person having a
compensable serviceconnected disability exempt from taxation as herein
provided shall be determined as follows:
(a)If such person's service-connected disability
as determined by the United States veterans administration or its successor is
sixty per cent or less, the property of such person exempt from taxation shall
be determined by such person's percentage of disability multiplied by the
assessment of such person in the amount of:
(i)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(ii)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(iii)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(iv)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(v)No exemption if the total assessment of such
person exceeds five thousand dollars.
(b)If such person's service-connected disability
as determined by the United States veterans administration or its successor is
more than sixty per cent, the property of such person exempt from taxation
shall be in the amount of:
(i)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(ii)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(iii)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(iv)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(v)No exemption if the total assessment of such
person exceeds five thousand dollars.
(10)(11)There shall be
further exempt from taxation the property of each honorably discharged airman,
soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue marine service, the
coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the component of auxiliary
of any thereof, resident of this state, where such person has a
nonservice-connected total and permanent disability, physical or mental, as so
certified by the United States veterans administration, or its successor, or
such other certification as provided by law, in the amount of:
(a)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(c)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such person does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(e)No exemption if the total assessment of such
person exceeds five thousand dollars.
No such exemption shall be made for such person unless he
shall have served at least sixty days in the military or naval service of the
United States during time of war after World War I and shall have been a
resident of this state prior to September 1, 1945.
(11)(12)There shall be
further exempt from taxation the property of each widow, resident of this
state, in the amount of:
(a)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such widow does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such widow does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(c)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such widow does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such widow does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(e)No exemption if the total assessment of such
widow exceeds five thousand dollars.
In order to qualify for this exemption, the income from all
sources of such widow, together with the income from all sources of all
children of such widow residing with the widow in her residence in the year
immediately preceding the year for which such widow applies for this exemption,
shall not exceed:
1.Seven thousand dollars if none of the widow's
children under the age of eighteen years resided with her in such widow's
residence; or
2.Ten thousand dollars if one or more of the
widow's children residing with her in such widow's residence was under the age
of eighteen years, or was totally and permanently disabled, physically or
mentally, as certified by competent medical authority as provided by law.
Such widow shall have resided with her last spouse in this
state at the time of the spouse's death if she was not a widow and a resident
of this state prior to January 1, 1969.
(12)(13)No property
shall be exempt which has been conveyed to evade taxation.The total
exemption from taxation granted to the property owned by a person who qualifies
for any exemption in accordance with the terms of subsections (8), (9), (10), or
(11) or (12) of this section shall
not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars.The provisions of this
section shall be selfexecuting.
(13)(14)All property in
the state not exempt under the laws of the United States or under this
constitution or exempt by law under the provisions of this section shall be
subject to taxation to be ascertained as provided by law. END_STATUTE
2.Short
title
This measure shall be known as and may be cited as the
"Small Business Job Creation Act".
3.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
XXI, Constitution of Arizona.

