







REFERENCE TITLE: death resolution; Honorable Jack Brown







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2048









Introduced by
Representatives
  McCune Davis, Allen J, Alston, Andrade, Barton, Benally, Bolding, Borrelli,
  Bowers, Boyer, Cardenas, Clark, Espinoza, Fann, Fernandez, Finchem, Gowan,
  Hale, Kopec, Larkin, Meyer, Otondo, Plumlee, Rios, Robson, Saldate, Stevens,
  Thorpe, Wheeler, Senators Allen S, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Contreras,
  Dalessandro, Driggs, Farley, Griffin, Hobbs, Kavanagh, Lesko, McGuire,
  Miranda, Pancrazi, Quezada, Sherwood, Worsley, Yarbrough, Yee:
  Representatives Ackerley, Campbell, Carter, Cobb, Coleman, Farnsworth E,
  Friese, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Gray, Kern, Lawrence, Leach, Livingston, Lovas,
  Mach, Mendez, Mesnard, Mitchell, Montenegro, Norgaard, Olson, Petersen,
  Pratt, Rivero, Shope, Townsend, Ugenti-Rita, Velasquez, Weninger, Senators
  Barto, Begay, Biggs, Burges, Dial, Donahue, Meza, Pierce, Shooter, Smith





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

on the death of the honorable Jack A. Brown.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





The Honorable Jack A.
Brown passed away on October 28, 2015 at the age of eighty-six.
Born in St. Johns,
Arizona on May 2, 1929, Jack Brown was one of eight children of Joseph Albert
Brown and Elda Whiting. A fourth-generation Arizonan, he lived nearly all of
his life in St. Johns, leaving this community only to attend college at Brigham
Young University, where he studied agriculture and economics, and to complete
his mission in Brazil for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He
was blessed to live a long and full life doing what he loved: ranching, farming
and raising a family.
Jack Brown served in
the Arizona State Legislature for more than thirty-six years as a "cowboy
legislator." He was revered for his humor, wit, integrity and
congeniality, which enabled him to effectively bridge partisan differences and
earned him the respect and admiration of his peers on both sides of the
political aisle. During his tenure, he served as the Senate Floor Leader,
Senate Minority Leader and House Minority Leader and championed rural
interests. In 2008, the Arizona Republic named him one of the
"Greatest Arizona Lawmakers of the Modern Era." Throughout his decades
of service, he demonstrated his pragmatic, effective, common-sense brand of
political savvy and remained committed to the highest ideals of public service.
Despite his
responsibilities as a rancher, legislator and family man, Jack Brown gave
selflessly of his time, energy and abilities to various community
organizations. He served as President of the Apache County Fair Commission and
the Kiwanis Club and he was an active member of the Arizona Town Hall, Arizona
Cattle Growers' Association and Arizona Farm Bureau. He also enjoyed his
participation in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, serving as a
missionary in Brazil from 1948 to 1951 and as a Bishop for many years.
Dedicated to his
family, Jack Brown will be greatly missed by his wife of twenty-one years,
Beverly Butcher Brown, his eight children, his thirtysix grandchildren,
his thirty great-grandchildren and his sister. He was preceded in death by his
first wife of forty years, Anna Vee SmithsonBrown.
Therefore
Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
That the Members of the Legislature express sincere regret at
the passing of the Honorable Jack A. Brown and extend their deepest sympathies
to his family and friends.

