







REFERENCE TITLE: medical marijuana







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2019









Introduced by
Representatives
  Lawrence, Thorpe: Boyer, Mitchell





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Enacting and
ordering the submission to the people of a measure relating to medical
marijuana.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the legislature, the following measure, relating to medical marijuana, is
enacted to become valid as a law if approved by the voters and on proclamation
of the Governor:
AN ACT
Amending sections 362801,
362804.06 and 36-2815, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to medical
marijuana.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section 1.Section 36-2801, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2801.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Allowable amount of marijuana"
(a)With respect to a qualifying patient, the
"allowable amount of marijuana" means:
(i)Two-and-one-half ounces of usable marijuana;
and
(ii)If the qualifying patient's registry
identification card states that the qualifying patient is authorized to
cultivate marijuana, twelve marijuana plants contained in an enclosed, locked
facility, except that the
plants are not required to be in an enclosed, locked facility if the plants are
being transported because the qualifying patient is moving.
(b)With respect to a designated caregiver, the
"allowable amount of marijuana" for each patient assisted by the
designated caregiver under this chapter means:
(i)Two-and-one-half ounces of usable marijuana;
and
(ii)If the designated caregiver's registry
identification card provides that the designated caregiver is authorized to
cultivate marijuana, twelve marijuana plants contained in an enclosed, locked
facility, except that the
plants are not required to be in an enclosed, locked facility if the plants are
being transported because the designated caregiver is moving.
(c)Marijuana that is incidental to medical use,
but is not usable marijuana as defined in this chapter, shall not be counted
toward a qualifying patient's or designated caregiver's allowable amount of
marijuana.
2."Cardholder" means a qualifying
patient, a designated caregiver or a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
agent who has been issued and possesses a valid registry identification card.
3."Debilitating medical condition"
means one or more of the following:
(a)Cancer, glaucoma, positive status for human
immunodeficiency virus, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, hepatitis C,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, crohn's disease, agitation of alzheimer's
disease or the treatment of these conditions.
(b)A chronic or debilitating disease or medical
condition or its treatment that produces one or more of the following: cachexia
or wasting syndrome; severe and chronic pain; severe nausea; seizures,
including those characteristic of epilepsy; or severe and persistent muscle
spasms, including those characteristic of multiple sclerosis.
(c)Any other medical condition or its treatment
added by the department pursuant to section 362801.01.
4."Department" means the Arizona
department of health services or its successor agency.
5."Designated caregiver" means a person
who:
(a)Is at least twentyone years of age.
(b)Has agreed to assist with a patient's medical
use of marijuana.
(c)Has not been convicted of an excluded felony
offense.
(d)Assists no more than five qualifying patients
with the medical use of marijuana.
(e)May receive reimbursement for actual costs
incurred in assisting a registered qualifying patient's medical use of
marijuana if the registered designated caregiver is connected to the registered
qualifying patient through the department's registration process. The
designated caregiver may not be paid any fee or compensation for his service as a caregiver. Payment for costs
under this subdivision shall not constitute an offense under title 13, chapter
34 or under title 36, chapter 27, article 4.
6."Enclosed, locked facility" means a
closet, room, greenhouse or other enclosed area equipped with locks or other
security devices that permit access only by a cardholder.
7."Excluded felony offense" means:
(a)A violent crime as defined in section
13-901.03, subsection B, that was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction
where the person was convicted.
(b)A violation of a state or federal controlled
substance law that was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the
person was convicted but does not include:
(i)An offense for which the sentence, including
any term of probation, incarceration or supervised release, was completed ten
or more years earlier.
(ii)An offense involving conduct that would be
immune from arrest, prosecution or penalty under section 36-2811, except that the conduct occurred before the
effective date of this chapter or was prosecuted by an authority other than the
state of Arizona.
8."Marijuana" means all parts of any
plant of the genus cannabis whether growing or not, and the seeds of such
plant.
9."Medical use" means the acquisition, possession,
cultivation, manufacture, use, administration, delivery, transfer or
transportation of marijuana or paraphernalia relating to the administration of
marijuana to treat or alleviate a registered qualifying patient's debilitating
medical condition or symptoms associated with the patient's debilitating
medical condition.
11.10."Nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary" means a not-for-profit entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
sells or dispenses marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to
cardholders.A nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary may receive
payment for all expenses incurred in its operation.
10.11."Nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary agent" means a principal officer, board
member, employee or volunteer of a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary who
is at least twenty-one years of age and has not been convicted of an excluded
felony offense.
12."Physician" means a doctor of
medicine who holds a valid and existing license to practice medicine pursuant
to title 32, chapter 13 or its successor, or a doctor of osteopathic medicine who holds
a valid and existing license to practice osteopathic medicine pursuant to title
32, chapter 17 or its successor, a
naturopathic physician who holds a valid and existing license to practice
naturopathic medicine pursuant to title 32, chapter 14 or its successor or a
homeopathic physician who holds a valid and existing license to practice
homeopathic medicine pursuant to title 32, chapter 29 or its successor.
13."Qualifying patient" means a person
who has been diagnosed by a physician as having a debilitating medical
condition.
14."Registry identification card" means
a document issued by the department that identifies a person as a registered
qualifying patient, registered designated caregiver or a registered nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary agent.
15."Usable marijuana" means the dried
flowers of the marijuana plant, and any mixture or preparation thereof, but
does not include the seeds, stalks and roots of the plant and does not include
the weight of any nonmarijuana ingredients combined with marijuana and
prepared for consumption as food or drink.
16."Verification system" means a
secure, passwordprotected, web-based system established and maintained
by the department that is available to law enforcement personnel and nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary agents on a twentyfour hour basis for
verification of registry identification cards.
17."Visiting qualifying patient" means
a person:
(a)Who is not a resident of Arizona or who has
been a resident of Arizona less than thirty days.
(b)Who has been diagnosed with a debilitating
medical condition by a person who is licensed with authority to prescribe drugs to humans equivalent to a physician in the state of the
person's residence or, in the case of a person who has been a resident of
Arizona less than thirty days, the state of the person's former residence.
18."Written certification" means a
document dated and signed by a physician, stating that in the physician's
professional opinion the patient is likely to receive therapeutic or palliative
benefit from the medical use of marijuana to treat or alleviate the patient's
debilitating medical condition or symptoms associated with the debilitating
medical condition. The physician must:
(a)Specify the qualifying patient's debilitating
medical condition in the written certification.
(b)Sign and date the written certification only
in the course of a physician-patient relationship after the physician has
completed a full assessment of the qualifying patient's medical history. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 36-2804.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2804.06.Expiration and renewal of registry identification cards
and registration certificates; replacement
A.All A registry identification cards card and registration certificates certificate for a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
agent or a designated
caregiver expire one year after the date of issue. A registry identification card and registration
certificate for a qualifying patient expire six months after the date of issue,
at which time the qualifying patient shall obtain a new written certification
from the patient's physician.
B.A registry identification card of a nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary agent shall be cancelled and his access to the verification system shall be
deactivated upon on notification to the
department by a registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary that the
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent is no longer employed by or no
longer volunteers at the registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary.
C.A renewal nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary registration certificate shall be issued within ten days of receipt
of the prescribed renewal application and renewal fee from a registered
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary if its registration certificate is not
under suspension and has not been revoked.
D.If a cardholder loses his the
cardholder's registry identification card, he the
cardholder shall promptly notify the
department.Within five days of the notification, and upon on
payment of a ten dollar fee, the department shall issue a new
registry identification card with a new random identification number to the
cardholder and, if the cardholder is a registered qualifying patient, to the
registered qualifying patient's registered designated caregiver, if any. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-2815, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2815.Revocation
A.The department shall immediately revoke the
registry identification card of a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent
who violates section 36-2804.01, subsection D, or section 36-2816, subsection
B.The department shall suspend or revoke the registry identification
card of a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent for other violations of
this chapter.
B.The department shall immediately revoke the
registration certificate of a registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary
that violates section 2816 362816, subsections subsection B or C, and its board members and
principal officers may not serve as the board members or principal officers for
any other registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary.
C.Any cardholder who sells marijuana to a person who
is not allowed to possess marijuana for medical purposes under this chapter
shall have his the cardholder's registry
identification card revoked,
and shall be subject to other penalties for the unauthorized sale of marijuana
and other applicable offenses. A
cardholder who sells or transfers marijuana to a person who is under eighteen
years of age shall have the cardholder's registry identification card
permanently revoked and may be guilty of a class 2 felony pursuant to section
133409.
D.The department may revoke the registry
identification card of any cardholder who knowingly violates this chapter, and
the cardholder shall be subject to other penalties for the applicable offense.
E.Revocation is a final decision of the
department subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article
6. Jurisdiction and venue are vested in the superior court. END_STATUTE
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

