







REFERENCE TITLE: early childhood literacy; school monies







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2037









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Barton, Boyer, Cobb, Coleman, Fann, Kern, Senators Begay, Burges,
  Dial, Driggs: Representatives Allen J, Bowers, Campbell, Finchem, Gray,
  Lawrence, Leach, Lovas, Mesnard, Mitchell, Montenegro, Olson, Rivero, Shope,
  Thorpe, Weninger, Senators Allen S, Barto, Donahue, Farnsworth D, Kavanagh,
  Lesko, Smith, Worsley, Yee





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

enacting and
ordering the submission to the people of a measure relating to The early
childhood development and health fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the legislature, the following measure, relating to the early childhood
development and health fund, is enacted to become valid as a law if approved by
the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
AN ACT
amending sections 81152,
81171 and 81181, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to early
childhood development.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-1152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-1152.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Board" means the Arizona early
childhood development and health board established by this chapter.
2."Early childhood development and health
programs" means programs and services provided to children: 
(a)Prior to before kindergarten and their families for the purpose of
assisting child development by providing education and other support, including
parent and family support programs, child care, preschool, health screenings
and access to preventive health services.
(b)Pursuant to section 81181,
subsection D, paragraph1. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-1171, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-1171.Regional and statewide direct and grant program
requirements; permitted objectives
Programs undertaken by the board and the regional partnership
councils, either directly or through the award of grants, shall accomplish one
or more of the following objectives:
1.Improving the quality of early childhood
development and health programs.
2.Increasing access to quality early childhood
development and health programs.
3.Increasing access to preventive health care and
health screenings for children through age five.
4.Offering parent and family support and
education concerning early child development and literacy.
5.Providing professional development and training
for early childhood development and health providers.
6.Increasing coordination of early childhood
development and health programs and public information about the importance of
early childhood development and health,
except that monies
deposited in the early childhood development and health fund pursuant to
section 42-3372 may not be used to pay the costs of advertising through
television, radio or billboards or lobbying. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 8-1181, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-1181.Early childhood development and health fund
A.The early childhood development and health fund
is established consisting of funds
monies transferred
pursuant to subsection D; of this section, federal,
state, local and private funds
monies accepted by the
board pursuant to section 81182; and any monies
appropriated to the board by the legislature. The board shall administer the
fund.
B.The early childhood development and health fund
is divided into the following accounts:
1.The
program account. ,
2.The
administrative costs account. ,
3.The
private gifts account. ,
4.The
grant monies account. And
5.The
legislative appropriations account.
C.Monies in the program, administrative costs,
private gifts and grant monies accounts of the fund are not subject to
legislative appropriation and are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190
relating to lapsing of appropriations.
D.Ninety
percent Of the monies deposited into the early childhood
development and health fund pursuant to section 423373 423372:
1.Monies
shall be transferred to the department of education sufficient to meet the requirements
of this paragraph to be distributed to school districts and charter schools to
provide early childhood literacy programs for children under seven years of
age. Each school district and charter school is eligible to receive one
thousand one hundred sixtytwo dollars per pupil enrolled in the third
grade if sufficient monies are deposited pursuant to section 423372 or a
pro rata reduced per pupil amount if sufficient monies are not deposited
pursuant to section 423372.
2.After
the transfer pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, ninety percent of the
monies shall be deposited into the program account and ten
percent of the monies shall be deposited into the administrative costs
account. Administrative costs of the board, including staff compensation, may
only be paid from the administrative costs account. Funds monies
may be transferred by the board from the administrative costs
account to the program account, but funds
monies may not be
transferred from the program account to the administrative costs account. Funds monies may be transferred by the board from
the private gifts account and the grant monies account to the administrative
costs account to cover the administrative costs of programs and activities
undertaken using gift or grant monies.
E.If at
the end of a fiscal year unexpended and UNENCUMBERED monies remain in the fund,
the board shall transfer the first five million dollars to the internet crimes
against children enforcement fund established by section 41199. The
board may invest any additional
unexpended monies in the fund as provided in title 35, chapter 2. Interest and
other income from investments of monies in any account shall be credited to
that account except as otherwise provided by law. 
F.Beginning
in fiscal year 20202021, the department of education shall reduce the
monies transferred to a school district or charter school pursuant to
subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section by a percentage of the amount that
would otherwise be due that is equal to the percentage of third grade pupils
who are not promoted pursuant to section 15701, subsection A, paragraph
2, subdivision (a).END_STATUTE
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

