



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: process servers; motor vehicle records








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1061









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
28455, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to department of
transportation records.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-455, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-455.Release of personal information; fees
A.In accordance with section 28458 and the
driver's privacy protection act of 1994 (18 United States Code sections 2721
through 2725) and notwithstanding section 28447, the department shall
not knowingly disclose or otherwise make available to any person:
1.Personal information obtained by the department
in connection with a motor vehicle record except as otherwise provided in this
section.
2.Highly restricted personal information obtained
by the department in connection with a motor vehicle record without the express
consent of the person to whom the information applies except for uses allowed
in subsection C, paragraphs 1, 4, 6 and 9 of this section. This paragraph does
not affect the use of organ donation information on an individual's driver
license or affect the administration of organ donation in this state.
B.The department shall disclose personal
information for use in connection with the following matters:
1.Motor vehicle or driver safety and theft.
2.Motor vehicle emissions.
3.Motor vehicle product alterations, recalls or
advisories.
4.Performance monitoring of motor vehicles and
dealers by motor vehicle manufacturers.
5.Removal of nonowner records from the original
owner records of motor vehicle manufacturers to carry out the purposes of
titles I and IV of the anti car theft act of 1992 (18 United States Code
sections 2311 through 2322), the automobile information disclosure act (15
United States Code sections 1231, 1232 and 1233), the clean air act of 1963 (42
United States Code sections 7401 through 7671q) and 49 United States Code
chapters 301, 305 and 321 through 331.
C.Subject to subsection A of this section, the
department may disclose personal information as follows:
1.For use by any government agency, including any
court or law enforcement agency, in carrying out its functions or any private
person or entity acting on behalf of a government agency in carrying out its
functions.
2.For use in
connection with matters of:
(a)Performance
monitoring of motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts and dealers.
(b)Motor vehicle market research activities,
including survey research.
(c)Removal of nonowner records from the original
owner records of motor vehicle manufacturers.
3.For use in the normal course of business by a
legitimate business or its agents, employees or contractors, but only:
(a)To verify the accuracy of personal information
submitted by the individual to the business or its agents, employees or
contractors.
(b)If the information submitted is not correct or
is no longer correct, to obtain the correct information for the purpose of
preventing fraud by, pursuing legal remedies against or recovering on a debt or
security interest against the individual.
4.For use by an attorney licensed to practice law, by a certified process server
or by a licensed private investigator in connection with any civil, criminal,
administrative or arbitration proceeding in any court or government agency or
before any selfregulatory body, including the service of process,
investigation in anticipation of litigation and the execution or enforcement of
judgments and orders, or pursuant to a court order.
5.For use in research activities and for use in
producing statistical reports if the personal information is not published,
redisclosed or used to contact individuals.
6.For use by any insurer that writes automobile
liability or motor vehicle liability policies and that is under the
jurisdiction of the department of insurance or insurance support organization
or by a selfinsured entity or its agents, employees or contractors in
connection with claims investigation activities, antifraud activities, rating
or underwriting.
7.For use in providing notice to the owners of
towed or impounded vehicles.
8.For use by any licensed private investigative
agency or licensed security service for any purpose allowed under this section.
9.For use by an employer or its agent or insurer to
obtain or verify information relating to a holder of a commercial driver
license that is required under 49 United States Code sections 31301 through
31317.
10.For use by a toll operator as defined in section
287751 in connection with the operation of a toll facility or the
enforcement of tolls, administrative charges and penalties as defined in
section 287751.
11.For any other use in response to requests for
individual motor vehicle records if the state has obtained the express consent
of the person to whom the personal information pertains.
12.For bulk distribution for surveys, marketing or
solicitations if the department has obtained the express consent of the person
to whom the personal information pertains.
13.For use by any requester if the requester
demonstrates it has obtained the written consent of the individual to whom the
information pertains.
14.For any other use that is specifically
authorized by law and that is related to the operation of a motor vehicle or
public safety, including the following:
(a)Use by a financial institution or enterprise
under the jurisdiction of the department of financial institutions or a federal
monetary authority.
(b)Use by a motor vehicle dealer who is licensed
and bonded by the department or a state organization of licensed and bonded
motor vehicle dealers.
(c)Use by a person who is involved in an accident
or the owner of a vehicle involved in an accident if the person who requests
the information submits proof to the department of involvement in the accident.
(d)Use by a person applying for a bonded title if
all of the following conditions exist:
(i)The requester verifies to the satisfaction of
the director that the vehicle on which the requester is requesting the record
is in the requester's possession.
(ii)The record is requested in order for the
requester to notify the registered owner of the requester's intent to apply to
the department for a bonded title.
(iii)The requester provides a verification of a
vehicle inspection that was performed by an authorized department employee or
agent.
(e)Use by an operator of a self-service storage
facility who alleges both of the following:
(i)That the vehicle on which the operator is
requesting the record is in the operator's possession.
(ii)That the record is requested to allow the
operator to notify the registered owner and any lienholders of record of the
operator's intent to foreclose its lien and to sell the vehicle.
(f)For any other use as determined by the director
and established by rule.
D.The department may establish and carry out
procedures under which the department, on receiving a request for personal
information that does not fall within one of the exceptions prescribed in
subsection B or C of this section, may mail a copy of the request to the individual
about whom the information was requested. The mailing shall inform the
individual of the request and contain a statement that the information will not
be released unless the individual waives the individual's right to privacy
under this section.
E.In addition to the permissible uses prescribed in
subsection C of this section, the department may disclose its motor vehicle
records information, including personal information, as a bulk record only
under any of the following conditions:
1.If the director determines either of the
following:
(a)The sale or release of the record is necessary
for the public health or safety.
(b)The use is for general research or general
statistical purposes that do not provide specific factors from a record.
2.For surveys, marketing or solicitations if the
department has obtained the express consent of the person to whom the personal
information pertains.
3.For the release of motor vehicle title and motor
vehicle registration information, vehicle identification numbers, title brands,
odometer readings and brands and title lien information to a requester if the
requester is in the business of preparing vehicle history reports and the
information is used to develop a vehicle history report.
F.The director shall provide in a clear and
conspicuous manner on forms for the issuance or renewal of driver licenses,
nonoperating identification licenses and title and registration the opportunity
for express consent so that each person who is the subject of a record of the department
may opt in, for any purpose as prescribed by the director. Express consent
shall be conveyed in a form prescribed by the director and shall include at
least the following:
1.Clear and conspicuous notice informing the person
who is giving express consent that by giving express consent the person is
allowing the department to disclose information contained in the person's motor
vehicle record to any person requesting information for any purpose.
2.A written signature or an electronic signature.
3.An explanation of the difference between a
one-time authorization and general consent or opt in.
G.Subject to the requirements of subsection F of
this section, express consent may be conveyed as either of the following:
1.A one-time authorization submitted by a requester
on a consent to release form or by other written format as prescribed by the
director.
2.General consent or opt in on certain department
forms.
H.Driver histories shall not be disclosed under
subsection E of this section.
I.Except as provided in subsection J of this
section and section 28446, subsection B, records provided pursuant to
subsections B and C of this section are subject to the fees prescribed in
section 28-446, subsections A and C.
J.For records searched and provided for the
purposes described in subsection E of this section, the director:
1.Shall charge a search fee that is a minimum of
six hundred dollars per million records searched.
2.Shall charge a records fee that is a minimum of
thirty dollars per thousand records provided.
3.May prorate the charge for fractional quantities
that are searched or provided.
4.May charge only the search fee if the request is
in accordance with subsection E, paragraph 2 of this section.
K.Records requests that require a database search
for specific criteria within a record are subject to a search fee. In addition
to this search fee, each motor vehicle record provided to a records requester
as a result of a criteria search incurs record fees in accordance with subsection
I of this section. END_STATUTE

