



PREFILED DEC 11 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: lottery; funding; LTAF; restoration







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1013









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

amending sections
5554, 5572, 9626, 151682.03 and 286543,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 28, chapter 24, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding article 1; amending sections 36-108.01 and 36274,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 41, chapter 1, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-175; amending title 41, chapter 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 1; AMENDING sections 485103,
485104 and 485314, Arizona Revised Statutes; Relating to the
state lottery.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-554, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-554.Commission; director; powers and duties; definitions
A.The commission shall meet with the director not
less than once each quarter to make recommendations and set policy, receive
reports from the director and transact other business properly brought before
the commission.
B.The commission shall oversee a state lottery to
produce the maximum amount of net revenue consonant with the dignity of the
state. To achieve these ends, the commission shall authorize the director to
adopt rules in accordance with title 41, chapter 6.Rules adopted by
the director may include provisions relating to the following:
1.Subject to the approval of the commission, the
types of lottery games and the types of game playstyles to be conducted.
2.The method of selecting the winning tickets or
shares for noncomputerized online games, except that no method may be used
that, in whole or in part, depends on the results of a dog race, a horse race
or any sporting event.
3.The manner of payment of prizes to the holders of
winning tickets or shares, including providing for payment by the purchase of
annuities in the case of prizes payable in installments, except that the
commission staff shall examine claims and may not pay any prize based on
altered, stolen or counterfeit tickets or based on any tickets that fail to
meet established validation requirements, including rules stated on the ticket
or in the published game rules, and confidential validation tests applied
consistently by the commission staff. No particular prize in a lottery game
may be paid more than once, and in the event of a binding determination that
more than one person is entitled to a particular prize, the sole remedy of the
claimants is the award to each of them of an equal portion of the single prize.
4.The method to be used in selling tickets or
shares, except that no elected official's name may be printed on such tickets
or shares.The overall estimated odds of winning some prize or some
cash prize, as appropriate, in a given game shall be printed on each ticket or
share.
5.The licensing of agents to sell tickets or
shares, except that a person who is under eighteen years of age shall not be
licensed as an agent.
6.The manner and amount of compensation to be paid
licensed sales agents necessary to provide for the adequate availability of
tickets or shares to prospective buyers and for the convenience of the public,
including provision for variable compensation based on sales volume.
7.Matters necessary or desirable for the efficient
and economical operation and administration of the lottery and for the convenience
of the purchasers of tickets or shares and the holders of winning tickets or
shares.
C.The commission shall authorize the director to
issue orders and shall approve orders issued by the director for the necessary
operation of the lottery. Orders issued under this subsection may include
provisions relating to the following:
1.The prices of tickets or shares in lottery games.
2.The themes, game playstyles, and names of
lottery games and definitions of symbols and other characters used in lottery games,
except that each ticket or share in a lottery game shall bear a unique
distinguishable serial number.
3.The sale of tickets or shares at a discount for
promotional purposes.
4.The prize structure of lottery games, including
the number and size of prizes available.Available prizes may
include free tickets in lottery games and merchandise prizes.
5.The frequency of drawings, if any, or other
selections of winning tickets or shares, except that:
(a)All drawings shall be open to the public.
(b)The actual selection of winning tickets or
shares may not be performed by an employee or member of the commission.
(c)Noncomputerized online game drawings shall be
witnessed by an independent observer.
6.Requirements for eligibility for participation in
grand drawings or other runoff drawings, including requirements for the
submission of evidence of eligibility within a shorter period than that
provided for claims by section 5568.
7.Incentive and bonus programs designed to increase
sales of lottery tickets or shares and to produce the maximum amount of net
revenue for this state.
8.The method used for the validation of a ticket,
which may be by physical or electronic presentation of a ticket.
D.Notwithstanding title 41, chapter 6 and
subsection B of this section, the director, subject to the approval of the
commission, may establish a policy, procedure or practice that relates to an
existing online game or a new online game that is the same type and has the
same type of game playstyle as an online game currently being conducted
by the lottery or may modify an existing rule for an existing online game or a
new online game that is the same type and has the same type of game playstyle
as an online game currently being conducted by the lottery, including
establishing or modifying the matrix for an online game by giving notice of the
establishment or modification at least thirty days before the effective date of
the establishment or modification.
E.The commission shall maintain and make the
following information available for public inspection at its offices during
regular business hours:
1.A detailed listing of the estimated number of
prizes of each particular denomination expected to be awarded in any instant
game currently on sale.
2.After the end of the claim period prescribed by
section 5568, a listing of the total number of tickets or shares sold
and the number of prizes of each particular denomination awarded in each
lottery game.
3.Definitions of all play symbols and other
characters used in each lottery game and instructions on how to play and how to
win each lottery game.
F.Any information that is maintained by the
commission and that would assist a person in locating or identifying a winning
ticket or share or that would otherwise compromise the integrity of any lottery
game is deemed confidential and is not subject to public inspection.
G.The commission, in addition to other games
authorized by this article, may establish multistate lottery games to be
conducted concurrently with other lottery games authorized under subsection B
of this section. The monies for prizes, for operating expenses and for payment
to the local transportation assistance
fund established by section 288101 and the state general
fund shall be accounted for separately as nearly as practicable in the lottery
commission's general accounting system.The monies shall be derived
from the revenues of multistate lottery games.
H.The commission, in addition to other games
authorized by this article, shall establish special instant ticket games with
play areas protected by paper tabs designated for use by charitable
organizations. The monies for prizes and for operating expenses shall be
accounted for separately as nearly as practicable in the lottery commission's general
accounting system. Monies saved from the revenues of the special games, by
reason of operating efficiencies, shall become other revenue of the lottery
commission and revert to the state general fund, except that the commission
shall transfer the proceeds from any games that are sold from a vending machine
in an age-restricted area to the state treasurer for deposit in the following
amounts:
1.Nine hundred thousand dollars each fiscal year in
the internet crimes against children enforcement fund established by section 41199.
2.One hundred thousand dollars each fiscal year in
the victims' rights enforcement fund established by section 411727.
3.Any monies in excess of the amounts listed in
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection, in the state lottery fund established by
section 5571.
I.The commission or director shall not establish or
operate any online or electronic keno game or any game played on the internet.
J.The commission or director shall not establish or
operate any lottery game or any type of game playstyle, either
individually or in combination, that uses gaming devices or video lottery
terminals as those terms are used in section 5601.02, including monitor
games that produce or display outcomes or results more than once per hour.
K.The director shall print, in a prominent location
on each lottery ticket or share, a statement that help is available if a person
has a problem with gambling and a toll-free telephone number where problem
gambling assistance is available. The director shall require all licensed
agents to post a sign with the statement that help is available if a person has
a problem with gambling and the toll-free telephone number at the point of sale
as prescribed and supplied by the director.The requirements of this
subsection apply to tickets and shares printed after July 18, 2000.
L.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Charitable
organization" means any nonprofit organization, including not more than
one auxiliary of that organization, that has operated for charitable purposes
in this state for at least two years before submitting a license application
under this article.
2."Game playstyle" means the
process or procedure that a player must follow to determine if a lottery ticket
or share is a winning ticket or share.
3."Matrix" means the odds of winning a
prize and the prize payout amounts in a given game. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 5-572, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-572.Use of monies in state lottery fund; report
A.If there are any bonds or bond related
obligations payable from the state lottery revenue bond debt service fund, the
state lottery revenue bond debt service fund shall be secured by a first lien
on the monies in the state lottery fund after the payment of operating costs of
the lottery, as prescribed in section 5555, subsection A, paragraph 1,
until the state lottery bond debt service fund contains sufficient monies to
meet all the requirements for the current period as required by the bond
documents. Debt service for revenue bonds issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be paid first from monies that would have otherwise been deposited
pursuant to this section in the state general fund. After the requirements for
the current period have been satisfied as required by the bond documents, the
monies in the state lottery fund shall be expended for the expenses of the
commission incurred in carrying out its powers and duties and in the operation
of the lottery.
B.Of the monies remaining in the state lottery fund
each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits authorized in subsection A
of this section, ten million dollars shall be deposited in the Arizona game and
fish commission heritage fund established by section 17297.
C.Except as
provided in subsection G of this section, state lottery fund monies shall be
used to reimburse the state general fund for payment of eighteen million
dollars to the local transportation assistance fund established by section 288101
each fiscal year. Eighteen million dollars shall be transferred from the state
general fund to the local transportation assistance fund established by section
28-8101 at the beginning of each fiscal year.
D.Of the
monies remaining in the state lottery fund after the appropriations authorized
in subsections A, B and C of this section, up to a maximum of twenty-three
million dollars each fiscal year shall be deposited in the state general fund to
be used to offset reimbursements to the local transportation assistance fund
established by section 288101 and up to a maximum of seven million six
hundred fifty thousand dollars each fiscal year shall be deposited in the state
general fund to be used to offset reimbursements to the county assistance fund
established by section 41175. Monies distributed pursuant to this
subsection shall be in addition to monies distributed pursuant to subsection C
of this section. Monies equivalent to the amount of state lottery fund monies
specified pursuant to this subsection shall be transferred from the state
general fund to the local transportation assistance fund established by section
28-8101 and the county assistance fund established by section 41-175 at the
beginning of each fiscal year.
E.Notwithstanding
subsection D of this section, if the director determines at the beginning of
any fiscal year that monies available in the state general fund to be used to
offset reimbursements to cities, towns and counties under this section might
not equal thirty million six hundred fifty thousand dollars, the director may
not authorize deposits to the state general fund to be used to offset
reimbursements to the county assistance fund established by section 41-175
until the deposits to the state general fund to be used to offset
reimbursements to the local transportation assistance fund established by
section 28-8101 equal twenty-three million dollars.Monies
equivalent to the amount of state lottery fund monies specified pursuant to this
subsection shall be transferred from the state general fund to the other fund
or funds specified in this subsection at the beginning of each fiscal year.
C.F.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsections A,
and B, C, D and E of this section, and appropriations and deposits to the state general fund to
be used to offset reimbursements to the local transportation assistance fund
authorized by this section, ten million dollars shall be deposited in the
Arizona state parks board heritage fund established by section 41502,
five million dollars shall be allocated to the department of child safety for
the healthy families program established by section 8481, four million
dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona board of regents for the Arizona area
health education system established by section 151643, three million
dollars shall be allocated to the department of health services to fund the
teenage pregnancy prevention programs established in Laws 1995, chapter 190,
sections 2 and 3, two million dollars shall be allocated to the department of
health services for the health start program established by section 36697,
two million dollars shall be deposited in the disease control research fund
established by section 36274 and one million dollars shall be allocated
to the department of health services for the federal women, infants and
children food program.The allocations in this subsection shall be
adjusted annually according to changes in the GDP price deflator as defined in
section 41563 and the allocations are exempt from the provisions of
section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. If there are not
sufficient monies available pursuant to this subsection, the allocation of
monies for each program shall be reduced on a pro rata basis.
D.G.Notwithstanding subsection C of
this section, if the state
lottery director determines that monies available to the state
general fund may might not equal eightyfour million one hundred fifty thousand
thirtyone million dollars
in a fiscal year, the director shall not authorize deposits to the Arizona game and fish commission heritage
state GENERAL fund to be used to offset
reimbursements to the local transportation assistance fund pursuant to subsection B of this section established by section 28-8101 until
the deposits to the state general fund equal eightyfour million one hundred fifty thousand
thirtyone million dollars
in a fiscal year. Monies equivalent to
the amount of state lottery fund monies specified pursuant to this subsection
shall be transferred from the state general fund to the other fund or funds
specified in this subsection at the beginning of each fiscal year.
E.H.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsections A through D
G of this section, one million dollars or the remaining balance
in the fund, whichever is less, is appropriated to the department of economic
security for grants to nonprofit organizations, including faith based
organizations, for homeless emergency and transitional shelters and related
support services. The department of economic security shall submit a report on
the amounts, recipients, purposes and results of each grant to the governor,
the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the senate on
or before December 31 of each year for the prior fiscal year and shall provide
a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
F.I.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsections A through E H
of this section, and after a total of at least ninetynine million six hundred forty thousand
fortysix million four hundred
ninety thousand dollars has been deposited in the state general
fund, three million five hundred thousand dollars shall be deposited in the
Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01. The balance in
the state lottery fund remaining after deposits into the Arizona competes fund established by section 41-1545.01 shall
be deposited in the university capital improvement leaseto-own and bond
fund established by section 151682.03, up to a maximum of eighty percent
of the total annual payments of lease-to-own and bond agreements entered into
by the Arizona board of regents.
G.J.All monies
remaining in the state lottery fund after the appropriations and deposits
authorized in this section shall be deposited in the state general fund.
H.K.Except for monies
expended for debt service of revenue bonds as provided in subsection A of this
section, monies expended under subsection A of this section are subject to
legislative appropriation. 
I.L.The commission
shall transfer monies prescribed in this section on a quarterly basis. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 9-626, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-626.Construction progress reports; auditor general performance
measures
A.The eligible city shall report progress on the
development of any eligible project to the joint committee on capital review
twice annually during construction of the eligible project.
B.Within five years after the filing of the
certificate of completion of construction of an eligible project pursuant to
section 9622, and after consultation with the eligible city, the auditor
general shall conduct or contract for an economic and fiscal impact analysis of
the eligible project in its fifth year of operation following the filing of the
certificate of completion of construction. At a minimum, the analysis shall:
1.Estimate the effects of direct, indirect and
induced economic activity in this state associated with:
(a)Regional and national conventions and trade
shows held at the site of the eligible project, the total amount of state
general fund revenues derived from that economic activity and the estimated
average annual attendance at those events assuming:
(i)The eligible project had not been completed.
(ii)The eligible project has been completed.
(b)The construction of the eligible project and the
total amount of state general fund revenues derived from the construction
activity.
2.Compute the total cumulative amount of
distributions pursuant to section 9602 for the first through fifth years
following the filing of the certificate of completion of construction for the
eligible project pursuant to section 9622 and from the first through
each subsequent fifth year.
3.Compute the net cumulative distributions for the
eligible project by subtracting the amount determined pursuant to paragraph 1,
subdivision (b) of this subsection from either the amounts determined pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this subsection or, if applicable, the amount of state monies
paid under a lease purchase agreement pursuant to section 41791.04.
4.Based on the analysis conducted pursuant to this
subsection, estimate the minimum required attendance at the eligible project
for the fifth year following the filing of the certificate of completion of
construction of an eligible project pursuant to section 9622 and each
year thereafter. The estimates shall be computed as follows:
(a)Divide the total state general fund revenues estimated
pursuant to paragraph 1, subdivision (a), item (ii) of this subsection by the
attendance estimated pursuant to paragraph 1, subdivision (a), item (ii) of
this subsection.
(b)Divide the net cumulative distribution amounts
for the fifth year following the filing of the certificate of completion of
construction of an eligible project pursuant to section 9622 and each
year thereafter computed pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection by the
quotient computed pursuant to subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(c)Add the average annual attendance estimated
pursuant to paragraph 1, subdivision (a), item (i) of this subsection to each
of the quotients determined pursuant to subdivision (b) of this paragraph. The
resulting sums are the minimum required attendance amounts for each year.
C.Beginning in the fifth calendar year following
the filing of the certificate of completion of construction of an eligible
project pursuant to section 9622 and each year thereafter, the auditor
general shall:
1.Estimate the average annual attendance at
regional and national conventions and trade shows held at the site of the
eligible project using any appropriate method to estimate the attendance. The
eligible city shall cooperate with and assist the auditor general in developing
the estimates.
2.Compute the ratio of the cumulative sum of the
estimated attendance amounts developed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
subsection for all years through the current year to the cumulative sum of the
minimum required attendance amounts for those years computed pursuant to
subsection B, paragraph 4, subdivision (c) of this section.
3.Notify the president of the senate, the speaker
of the house of representatives and the governor of:
(a)The minimum required attendance amounts for
those years computed pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 4, subdivision (c) of
this section.
(b)The attendance estimate developed pursuant to
paragraph 1 of this subsection.
(c)The ratio computed pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this subsection.
D.Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this
subsection, if the ratio computed pursuant to subsection C, paragraph 2 of this
section is less than one:
1.The auditor general shall compute the difference
between the estimated state general fund revenues and the net cumulative
distributions by multiplying the net cumulative distributions computed pursuant
to subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section by the difference between the
ratio computed pursuant to subsection C, paragraph 2 of this section and one.
2.The auditor general shall notify the state
treasurer of:
(a)The ratio computed pursuant to subsection C,
paragraph 2 of this section.
(b)The difference computed pursuant to paragraph 1
of this subsection.
3.At the time of the next regularly scheduled distribution,
the state treasurer shall withhold from the amount that would otherwise be
distributed to the eligible city from
the local transportation assistance fund established by section 28-8101 pursuant
to section 425029 288102 an amount equal
to the amount stated in the notice received pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
subsection. If the amount available for distribution is less than the amount
to be withheld, the state treasurer shall continue withholding from subsequent
distributions until the full amount stated in the notice has been withheld.
4.The eligible city may request and the auditor
general shall conduct or contract for a complete economic and fiscal impact
analysis of the eligible project. If an analysis is requested:
(a)The auditor general shall not notify the state
treasurer pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection, and the state treasurer
shall not withhold pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection, pending
completion of the analysis.
(b)The analysis shall be similar to the analysis
described in subsection B of this section, except that the analysis shall
examine the operations of the eligible project in the year for which the ratio
is less than one.
(c)The analysis, at a minimum, shall estimate the
total cumulative incremental revenues to the state general fund resulting from
the completion of the eligible project including the revenues resulting from
the construction activity associated with the completion of the eligible
project.
(d)And the analysis demonstrates that the total
cumulative incremental revenues to the state general fund exceed the total
cumulative amount of distributions pursuant to section 9602 as computed
in subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section, the auditor general shall not
notify the state treasurer pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection and the
state treasurer shall not withhold pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection.
(e)And the analysis demonstrates that the total
cumulative incremental revenues to the state general fund are less than the
total cumulative amount of distributions pursuant to section 9602 as
computed in subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section:
(i)The auditor general shall subtract the amount of
the total cumulative incremental revenues to the state general fund from the
amount of the total cumulative distributions.
(ii)The auditor general shall notify the state
treasurer of the difference computed pursuant to item (i) of this subdivision.
(iii)At the time of the next regularly scheduled
distribution, the state treasurer shall withhold from the amount that would
otherwise be distributed to the eligible city pursuant to section 425029
an amount equal to the amount stated in the notice received pursuant to item
(ii) of this subdivision.If the amount available for distribution
is less than the amount to be withheld, the state treasurer shall continue
withholding from subsequent distributions until the full amount stated in the
notice has been withheld.
E.The eligible city shall reimburse the auditor
general for any costs incurred in complying with the requirements of this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
15-1682.03, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1682.03.University capital improvement lease-to-own and bond fund;
lease-to-own and bond capital improvement agreements
A.The university capital improvement lease-to-own
and bond fund is established consisting of the monies provided by the Arizona
board of regents pursuant to this section, monies deposited pursuant to section
5572 and monies appropriated by the legislature. The board shall
administer the fund. On notice from the board, the state treasurer shall invest
and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313, and monies
earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
B.Through revenues of the state university system,
the board shall annually provide monies to the fund of at least twenty per cent percent of the aggregate annual payments of
lease-to-own and bond agreements entered into by the board pursuant to this
section.
C.The board shall distribute monies in the fund to
make payments pursuant to lease-to-own and bond agreements entered into by the
board pursuant to this section.The board may enter into
lease-to-own and bond agreements for the purposes of building renewal projects
and new facilities. New lease-to-own and bond agreements entered into pursuant
to this section shall not exceed one hundred sixtyseven million six
hundred seventyone thousand two hundred dollars in fiscal year 20082009
and four hundred million dollars in fiscal year 20092010.The
board may enter into leasetoown and bond transactions up to a
maximum of eight hundred million dollars.
D.Notwithstanding section 5572, subsection G I, the amount of state lottery revenues
distributed to the university capital improvement leasetoown and
bond fund in fiscal year 20092010 and fiscal year 20102011 shall
not exceed an amount sufficient for up to eighty per cent percent of the annual payments of the first one hundred
sixty-seven million six hundred seventy-one thousand two hundred dollars of new
lease-to-own and bond agreements entered into pursuant to this section. The
full amount of state lottery revenues distributed to the university capital
improvement leasetoown and bond fund pursuant to section 5572,
subsection G I shall be made available to
the board for the remaining new lease-to-own and bond agreements up to eight
hundred million dollars beginning in fiscal year 20112012.
E.In entering into lease-to-own and bond agreements
pursuant to this section, the board shall not obligate this state to provide
any additional monies from the state lottery fund above the amounts authorized
in this section and section 5572, subsection G I.
In entering into lease-to-own and bond agreements pursuant to this section, the
board shall not obligate any state general fund monies. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 28-6543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-6543.Local revenues; requirements
A.Each fiscal year a county with a population of
more than four hundred thousand persons or an incorporated city or town with a
population of more than thirty thousand persons that is located in such a that county shall:
1.Budget and spend local revenues as defined in
article IX, section 20, Constitution of Arizona, for street and highway
purposes in an amount at least equal to the average amount of local revenues
budgeted and spent for these purposes in any four of the five fiscal years
during the period beginning with fiscal year 19811982 and ending with
fiscal year 19851986.
2.Through its chief financial officer, certify in
writing to the department whether or not the county, city or town has complied
with the requirements of paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.File the certification on or before December 31 after the completion of each
June 30 of the following fiscal
year.
B.Failure to certify as required by subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section is a failure to comply with subsection A, paragraph
1 of this section.
C.In determining the amount of local revenues
budgeted and spent for street and highway purposes during a fiscal year
pursuant to subsection A of this section, a county or incorporated city or town
shall not consider any of the following:
1.Monies distributed from the Arizona highway user
revenue fund.
2.Monies
distributed from the local transportation assistance fund established by
section 288101.
2.3.Monies spent by
the county or incorporated city or town for street and highway purposes
directly needed by an emergency declared by the governor. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 28, chapter 24, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 1, to read:
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE28-8101.Local transportation assistance fund
A.The local
transportation assistance fund is established consisting of:
1.Monies
transferred from the state general fund pursuant to section 5572.
2.Monies
appropriated pursuant to subsection B of this section.
3.Interest
earned on local transportation assistance fund monies as provided in subsection
C of this section.
B.The
legislature shall appropriate an amount that is necessary to provide that the
total monies available in the local transportation assistance fund for each
fiscal year equal twenty million five hundred thousand dollars.
C.The state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the local transportation assistance
fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
D.A maximum
amount of twenty-three million dollars may be deposited in the local
transportation assistance fund each fiscal year from the state general fund as
provided in section 5-572, subsection D.
E.A maximum
amount of eighteen million dollars may be deposited in the local transportation
assistance fund each fiscal year from the state general fund as provided in
section 5-572, subsection C. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-8102.General lottery monies; fund distribution; definitions
A.The state
treasurer shall pay incorporated cities and towns from the available monies in
the local transportation assistance fund established by section 28-8101
pursuant to section 5-572, subsection D. Each city or town shall receive ten
thousand dollars or an amount that is equal to the proportion that the
population of each city or town bears to the total population of all cities and
towns in this state, whichever is greater.
B.The state
treasurer shall pay cities and towns as provided in subsection A of this
section a maximum amount of twenty-three million dollars in any one fiscal year
from the local transportation assistance fund established by section 28-8101.
C.A city or
town with a population of three hundred thousand persons or less shall use the
monies received under subsection A of this section for transportation purposes
except as provided in section 28-8104 and may use the monies for public
transportation operating and related capital purposes.A city or
town with a population of more than three hundred thousand persons shall use
the monies received under subsection A of this section for public
transportation operating and related capital purposes except as provided in
section 28-8104.
D.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Population"
means the population of a city, town or county as defined in section 41-563.
2."Public
transportation" means local transportation of passengers by means of a
public conveyance. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-8103.Special lottery monies; fund distribution; notice;
proposals; annual financial report; compliance report; definitions
A.pursuant
to section 5-572, subsection C, monies in the local transportation assistance
fund established by section 28-8101 shall be available for distribution by the
state treasurer to the following in the proportion that the population of each
bears to the total population of this state:
1.In each
county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons,
to the public transportation fund established by section 48-5103.
2.In each
county with a population of five hundred thousand or more persons but less than
one million two hundred thousand persons, to the metropolitan planning
organization in the county.
3.In each
county with a population of less than five hundred thousand persons, to cities
and towns located in the county and to the county board of supervisors. The
distribution to the county board of supervisors shall be based on the
unincorporated population of the county.
B.The state
treasurer may not distribute more than eighteen million dollars in any one
fiscal year as provided in this section.Monies distributed pursuant
to this section are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
C.The state
treasurer shall distribute monies to the public transportation fund established
by section 48-5103 or a metropolitan planning organization pursuant to
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section when a regional public
transportation authority or metropolitan planning organization certifies that
its local monies have been spent or are in the process of being spent.
The monies distributed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of
this section shall be further distributed as matching grants to cities and
towns located in the county in the proportion that the population of each city
or town bears to the total population in that county and to the county board of
supervisors in the proportion that the unincorporated population of the county
bears to the total population in that county.The monies distributed
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall be distributed as
matching grants to cities, towns and county boards of supervisors.
D.Monies
distributed pursuant to subsection C of this section shall be distributed only
to cities, towns and counties that satisfy the following match requirements:
1.For
counties with a population of five hundred thousand or more persons, a match
that is at least equal to the amount of grant monies requested by a county.
2.For
counties with a population of less than five hundred thousand persons, a match
that is at least equal to one-fourth of the amount of grant monies requested by
a county.
3.For
cities or towns with a population of fifty thousand or more persons, a match
that is at least equal to the amount of grant monies requested by a city.
4.For
cities or towns with a population of less than fifty thousand persons, a match
that is at least equal to one-fourth of the amount of the grant monies
requested by a city or town.
E.A
regional public transportation authority, a metropolitan planning organization
and the department shall notify cities, towns and county boards of supervisors
within their jurisdictions of the maximum amount of matching grant monies available
to them each year pursuant to this section. Each year cities, towns and
counties may submit proposals to a regional public transportation authority, a
metropolitan planning organization or the department requesting some or all of
the matching grant monies available to them in that year. For distributions
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section, each proposal shall
certify that the city, town or county will invest local monies in an amount
that is at least equal to the amount prescribed in subsection D of this section
and shall detail a plan for spending all matching grant and local monies, and
if a city, town or county complies with this section, the regional public
transportation authority or metropolitan planning organization shall distribute
matching grant monies to the city, town or county.For distributions
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section, each proposal shall
certify that the city, town or county will invest local monies in an amount
that is at least equal to the amount prescribed in subsection D of this section
and shall detail a plan for spending all matching grant and local monies.
F.Except as
provided in subsection G of this section, monies distributed pursuant to this
section shall be used only for public transit purposes, including operating and
capital purposes, that are determined by the distributing agency to conform
with the long-range transportation plan or regional transportation plan.
G.A city,
town or county may use monies it receives pursuant to this section for other
transportation purposes if it receives less than two thousand five hundred
dollars pursuant to this section in a calendar year.
H.On or
before June 30 of the following fiscal year, a regional public transportation
authority or metropolitan planning organization that receives monies pursuant
to this section shall submit an annual report to the director that contains the
following information that is attested to by an independent certified public
accountant:
1.A
schedule of beginning and ending fund balances.
2.All
monies received pursuant to this section and the specific purposes for which
they are spent, including whether they are spent for operating or capital
purposes.
3.All local
matching expenditures made pursuant to this section.
I.On or
before January 1 of each year, the director shall submit a report on compliance
with the reporting requirements prescribed in this section to the governor, the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the
joint legislative budget committee.The director's report shall
include:
1.A
determination of whether each regional public transportation authority and
metropolitan planning organization has complied with the reporting requirements
prescribed in this section.
2.A summary
of the monies allocated to each regional public transportation authority and
metropolitan planning organization pursuant to this section in the preceding
fiscal year.
3.A summary
of local monies spent on public transit pursuant to this section.
J.The
director shall notify by certified mail each regional public transportation
authority and metropolitan planning organization that is not in compliance with
the reporting requirements prescribed in this section of its noncompliance.A
regional public transportation authority or metropolitan planning organization
that receives this notice shall comply with the reporting requirements
prescribed in this section within thirty days after receipt of the notice. If
a regional public transportation authority or metropolitan planning
organization fails to comply with the reporting requirements prescribed in this
section within thirty days after receipt of the notice, it is not eligible to
receive any monies pursuant to this section in the next fiscal year.
K.A
metropolitan planning organization, city, town or county may enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with a federally recognized Indian tribe to provide
financial assistance pursuant to this section for maintaining or operating an
existing public transit service provided by the Indian tribe.
L.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Local
monies" means:
(a)Revenue that is generated by a city, town or
county from nonfederal sources and that was first appropriated by the city,
town or county for public transit activities in or after fiscal year 1993-1994.
(b)Donations that are received by a city, town or
county from nongovernmental sources and that are in the form of monies or
in-kind contributions.
2."Population"
means the population of a city, town or county as defined in section 41-563.
3."Public
transit" means local, regional or intercity transportation of passengers
by means of a public conveyance, including para-transit and local
transportation of passengers by a car pool vehicle. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "car pool vehicle" means any motor vehicle when operated
by a car pool operator as defined in section 28-4032. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-8104.Alternative uses; local transportation assistance fund
By resolution, a city
or town may authorize the use of up to ten percent of local transportation
assistance fund monies received pursuant to section 28-8102 in any one fiscal
year for cultural, educational, historical, recreational or scientific
facilities or programs or for nonresidential outpatient programs or services
for persons with a developmental disability as defined in section 36-551 who
have never resided within a facility identified in or established pursuant to
section 36-558 if the monies are matched equally by nonpublic monies received
by the city or town and spent for the same purposes, except in a fiscal year
when the total distributed from the local transportation assistance fund is
less than twenty-three million dollars.
Sec.7.Section
36-108.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-108.01.Department of health services funds; purposes; annual
report
A.The interagency service agreement for behavioral
health services fund is established consisting of state and federal monies
received by the department to provide behavioral health services, except for
monies for nontitle XIX behavioral health services. The department
shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated.
B.The intergovernmental agreements for county
behavioral health services fund is established consisting of county monies
received by the department to provide behavioral health services to persons
identified through agreements with the counties. The department shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated.
C.The health services lottery monies fund is
established consisting of monies transferred pursuant to section 5572,
subsection C F for teenage pregnancy
prevention programs established by Laws 1995, chapter 190, sections 2 and 3,
the health start program established by section 36697 and the federal
women, infants and children food program. The department shall administer the
fund. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated.
D.The intergovernmental agreements/interagency
services agreements fund is established consisting of all monies received by the
department through intergovernmental agreements, interagency services
agreements and transfers between the department and other state and local
entities. The department shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated.
E.Beginning November 1, 2015, the department shall
report annually to the joint legislative budget committee on the revenues,
expenditures and ending balances from the previous, current and subsequent
fiscal years of the funds established in this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 36-274, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-274.Disease control research fund; lapsing; investment
A.The disease control research fund is established
consisting of monies received from the state lottery fund pursuant to section 5572,
subsection D F, monies appropriated by the
legislature and any gifts, contributions or other monies received by the
department from any source to carry out the purposes of this article, except
monies from the health research fund established by section 36275. The
department shall administer the disease control research fund.
B.The department may expend monies in the disease
control research fund for projects or services pursuant to section 36273
and for expenses incurred by the department in carrying out the purposes of
this article, including filing applications and maintaining patents.
C.As a condition of each contract for cancer
research projects or services, the department shall require that the recipient
shall not use fund monies for any purpose, including any administrative or
building purposes, other than the specific cancer research grant project
contract.
D.Monies in the disease control research fund are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations.
E.On notice from the department, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the disease control research fund
as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Title 41, chapter 1, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-175, to read:
START_STATUTE41-175.County assistance fund
A.The
county assistance fund is established. The fund shall consist of monies
transferred from the state general fund pursuant to section 5-572 and shall be
administered by the state treasurer.
B.Each
month in which monies are deposited in the fund, the state treasurer shall
distribute those monies to the counties in this state. The total amount
distributed to counties from the fund may not exceed seven million six hundred
fifty thousand dollars in any fiscal year. Monies in the fund shall be
distributed as follows:
1.Ninety-three
and forty-seven one-hundredths percent of the monies shall be distributed
equally among counties with a population of five hundred thousand or fewer
persons.
2.Six and
fifty-three one-hundredths percent of the monies shall be distributed equally
among counties with a population of more than five hundred thousand persons. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Title 41, chapter 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 1, to read:
ARTICLE
1.ARIZONA STATE PARKS BOARD HERITAGE FUND
START_STATUTE41-501.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Environmental
education" means educational processes, programs and activities that are
specifically designed to enhance student acquisition of knowledge of scientific
and economic principles, concepts and facts as they relate to environmental
topics and issues and that are taught in an unbiased, fair and balanced manner.
2."Historic preservation" means
archaeological or historic properties listed on or eligible for listing on the
Arizona register of historic places that require funding for easements,
stabilization, rehabilitation, education and preservation program development,
reconstruction, restoration, interpretive development, acquisition and
maintenance.
3."Natural areas" means parcels of
land or water that contain examples of unique natural terrestrial or aquatic
ecosystems, rare species of plants and animals or unusual or outstanding
geologic or hydrologic features.
4."Trails" means those trails for
nonmotorized use that are nominated for inclusion in the state trails system,
including urban, cross-state, recreation, interpretive or historic trails. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-502.Arizona state parks board heritage fund
A.The Arizona state parks board heritage fund is
established consisting of monies deposited from the state lottery fund pursuant
to section 5572 and interest earned on those monies.
B.The fund
shall be administered by the Arizona state parks board. Monies in the fund are
not subject to legislative appropriation. Expenditures from the fund are not
subject to additional approval notwithstanding section 41511.05 or 41511.11
or any other law to the contrary. Monies received pursuant to section 5572
shall be deposited directly with the Arizona state parks board heritage fund.
On notice from the Arizona state parks board, the state treasurer shall invest
and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313, and monies
earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
C.The
Arizona state parks board may not use its power of eminent domain under section
41511.06 to acquire property to be paid for with monies from the Arizona
state parks board heritage fund.
D.All
monies in the Arizona state parks board heritage fund shall be spent by the
Arizona state parks board only for the purposes and in the percentages set
forth in this article. Monies in the fund may not revert to the state general
fund and are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-503.Expenditures from fund; purpose and amounts; report
A.Monies received pursuant to section 5572
by the Arizona state parks board heritage fund established by section 41-502
shall be spent as follows:
1.Five
percent on local, regional and state trails.
2.Thirty-five percent on local, regional or
state parks, for outdoor recreation and open space.
3.Seventeen
percent on acquisition of natural areas.
4.Four
percent on maintenance, operation and management of natural areas administered
by the Arizona state parks board.
5.Seventeen percent on local, regional and state
historic preservation projects.Monies provided under this paragraph
shall be administered by the Arizona state parks board through the state
historic preservation officer.
6.Seventeen percent on state park acquisition or
development.
7.Five percent on environmental education.
B.Expenditures
of Arizona state parks board heritage fund monies allocated pursuant to
subsection a, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section are subject to the review of
the Arizona outdoor recreation coordinating commission pursuant to section
41-511.25. Arizona state parks board heritage fund monies allocated pursuant
to subsection a, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section shall be available as
matching funds.
C.An entity receiving monies under subsection A,
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section may not receive more than twenty percent of
the monies available in any fiscal year.
D.All monies earned as interest on monies
received pursuant to section 5572 shall be spent only in the percentages
and for the purposes described in subsections A through C of this section or
for costs of administering the Arizona state parks board heritage fund
established by section 41-502 in amounts as determined by the Arizona state
parks board.
E.On or before June 30 of the following fiscal
year the Arizona state parks board shall submit its annual report to the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the
chairpersons of the senate natural resources committee and the house of
representatives energy, environment and natural resources committee, or their
successor committees. The annual report shall include information on the
following:
1.The amount of monies spent or encumbered in
the fund during the preceding fiscal year and a summary of the projects,
activities and expenditures relating to:
(a)Local,
regional and state trails.
(b)Local,
regional or state parks for outdoor recreation and open space.
(c)Natural
areas, including acquisition and maintenance, operation and management of
natural areas.
(d)Local,
regional and state historic preservation projects.
(e)State
park acquisition and development.
(f)Environmental
education.
2.The number and location of parcels of property
acquired during the preceding fiscal year.
3.For personal and real properties acquired with
fund monies during the preceding fiscal year, the amount of property tax
revenue paid to each taxing jurisdiction during the last full tax year prior to
acquisition.
4.The amount of money spent from the fund during
the preceding fiscal year for employee personal services.
5.The number of full-time employees employed in
the preceding fiscal year in connection with property acquisition, including
survey, appraisal and other related activities. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-504.Performance audit
The auditor general
shall conduct a performance audit, as defined in section 411278, of the
programs and expenditures pursuant to this article of the Arizona state parks
board heritage fund established by section 41-502 at the same time any agency
performance audit of the Arizona state parks board is conducted. The auditor
general shall submit copies of the performance audit to the president of the
senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the chairpersons of the
senate natural resources committee and the house of representatives energy,
environment and natural resources committee, or their successor committees. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 48-5103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5103.Public transportation fund
A.A public transportation fund is established for
the authority.The fund consists of:
1.Monies appropriated by each municipality that is
a member of the authority or the county, if it elected to enter into the
authority.Each member municipality and member county shall
appropriate monies to the public transportation fund in an amount determined by
the board.
2.Monies appropriated by a county that has not
elected to enter into the authority in an amount determined by the county board
of supervisors.
3.Transportation excise tax revenues that are
allocated to the fund pursuant to section 426105. The board shall separately
account for monies from transportation excise tax revenues allocated pursuant
to section 426105, subsection D, paragraph 3 for:
(a)A light rail public transit system.
(b)Capital costs for other public transportation.
(c)Operation and maintenance costs for other public
transportation.
4.Monies distributed under title 28, chapter 17,
article 1.
5.Grants, gifts or donations from public or private
sources.
6.Monies granted by the federal government or
appropriated by the legislature.
7.Fares or other revenues collected in operating a
public transportation system.
8.Local
transportation assistance fund monies that are distributed to each member under
section 288102 and as provided in section 485104.
9.Local
transportation assistance fund monies that are distributed to a member pursuant
to section 288102 and that must be used for public transportation.
10.Local
transportation assistance fund monies that are distributed pursuant to section
288103, subsection A, paragraph 1.
B.On behalf of the authority, the fiscal agent
shall administer monies paid into the public transportation fund. Monies in
the fund may be spent pursuant to or to implement the public transportation
element of the regional transportation plan developed and approved by the
regional planning agency, including reimbursement for utility relocation costs
as prescribed in section 485107, adopted pursuant to section 485121
and for projects identified in the regional transportation plan adopted by the
regional planning agency pursuant to section 286308.
C.Monies in the fund shall not be spent to promote
or advocate a position, alternative or outcome of an election, to influence
public opinion or to pay or contract for consultants or advisors to influence
public opinion with respect to an election regarding taxes or other sources of
revenue for the fund or regarding the regional transportation plan. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 48-5104, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5104.Municipality and county participation; withdrawal
A.A municipality located in a county eligible to
establish an authority may elect to enter into the authority by adopting an ordinance
declaring its participation.If
an ordinance is adopted, the municipality shall annually apply for monies from
the local transportation assistance fund established by section 28-8101 as
provided in:
1.Section
288102 and shall use a portion of those local transportation assistance
fund monies for public transportation each fiscal year.
2.Section
288103 and shall use those local transportation assistance fund monies
as provided in section 288103.
B.If a
municipality with a population of less than sixty thousand persons is unable to
use three-fourths of its local transportation assistance fund monies provided
pursuant to section 288102 for public transportation each fiscal year,
it shall appropriate any remaining amount of the threefourths of its
local transportation assistance fund monies to the public transportation fund
as provided in section 485103. If a municipality with a population of
sixty thousand persons or more is unable to use onethird of its local
transportation assistance fund monies provided pursuant to section 288102
for public transportation each fiscal year, it shall appropriate any remaining
amount of the one-third of its local transportation assistance fund monies to
the public transportation fund established by section 485103.
B.C.The county may
elect to enter into the authority by adopting a resolution declaring its
participation.The county shall represent persons residing in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
C.D.A member
municipality or member county may withdraw from the authority at the end of a
fiscal year by adopting an ordinance or resolution not later than ninety days
before the end of the fiscal year that states its intention to
withdraw.The withdrawal from the authority shall not result in the
cancellation of a contractual agreement entered into between the withdrawing
member and the authority. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 48-5314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5314.Election on regional transportation plan and excise tax;
costs
A.The board shall:
1.Adopt a twenty year comprehensive multimodal
regional transportation plan consistent with the requirements of this article,
including transportation corridors by priority and a schedule indicating the
dates that construction will begin for projects contained in the plan.
2.Request by resolution certified to the county
board of supervisors that the issue of levying a transportation excise tax
pursuant to section 426106 be submitted to the qualified electors at a
countywide special election or placed on the ballot at a countywide general
election. Within six months after receiving a certified copy of the
resolution, the county board of supervisors shall either call a special
election or place the issue on the ballot of a general election, subject to the
requirements of this section.
B.The election ballot shall include a description
of each transportation element of the regional transportation plan including a
separate percentage share and dollar share of the transportation excise tax
revenues allocated to each element.
C.In addition to any other requirements prescribed
by law, the county board of supervisors shall prepare and print a publicity
pamphlet concerning the ballot question and mail one copy of the pamphlet to
each household containing a registered voter in the county. The mailings may
be made over a period of days but shall be mailed for delivery before the earliest
date registered voters may receive early ballots for the election. The
publicity pamphlet shall contain:
1.The date of the election.
2.The individual household's polling place and the
time the polls will be open.
3.A summary of the principal provisions of the
issue presented to the voters, including the rate of the transportation excise
tax, the number of years the tax will be in effect and the projected annual and
cumulative amount of revenues to be raised.
4.A statement describing the purposes for which the
transportation excise tax monies may be spent as provided by law, including:
(a)A summary of the regional transportation plan
adopted pursuant to section 485309 and subsection A of this section,
including a description of each transportation element of the regional
transportation plan.
(b)A map of proposed routes and transportation
corridors of all major transportation projects and public transportation
systems.
(c)The percentage share and dollar amount of
transportation excise tax revenues, together with other identified revenues,
dedicated for each transportation element, transportation project and public
transportation system, and conditions and limitations on the use of the money.
5.The form of the ballot.
6.Any arguments for or against the ballot measure.
Affirmative arguments, arranged in the order in which the elections director
received them, shall be placed before the negative arguments, also arranged in
the order in which they were received.
D.Not later than ninety days before the date of the
election, a person may file with the county elections director an argument, not
more than three hundred words in length, advocating or opposing the ballot
measure, subject to the following requirements:
1.The person who files the argument shall also pay
to the elections director a publication fee prescribed by the board of
supervisors. Payment of the fee required by this paragraph, or reimbursement
of the payor, constitutes sponsorship of the argument.
2.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
individuals, the argument shall be signed by each sponsoring individual.
3.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
organizations, the argument shall be signed by two executive officers of each
organization.
4.If the argument is sponsored by one or more
political committees, the argument shall be signed by each committee's
chairperson or treasurer.
5.The names of persons who have signed arguments
and the names of sponsoring organizations shall appear with the argument in the
pamphlet. The person or persons signing the argument shall also give their
residence or post office address and a telephone number, which shall not appear
in the pamphlet.
E.In addition to any other ballot requirements
prescribed by law, the elections director shall cause the following to be
printed on the official ballot:
1.The designation of the measure as follows:
"Relating to county transportation excise (sales) taxes".
2.Instructions directing the voter to the full text
of the official and descriptive titles containing the summary as printed in the
sample ballot and posted in the polling place. The ballot may include the
summary of the regional transportation plan.
3.The questions submitted to the voters as follows:
I.Do you approve the regional transportation plan
for ________________
county?YES________NO_________
(A"YES" vote
indicates your approval of the proposed regional transportation plan as
developed by the regional transportation authority and described in the
election materials.)
(A"NO" vote indicates
your disapproval of the proposed regional transportation plan.)
II.Do you favor the levy of a transaction
privilege (sales) tax for regional transportation purposes in ____________
county? YES__________NO__________
(A"YES" vote has the
effect of imposing a transaction privilege (sales) tax in __________ county for
________ years to provide funding for the transportation projects contained in
the regional transportation plan.)
(A"NO" vote has the
effect of rejecting the transaction privilege (sales) tax for transportation
purposes in __________ county.)
F.For either ballot question I or II to be
approved, both the proposed regional transportation plan and the proposed
transaction privilege tax must be approved by a majority of the qualified
electors voting on the measure.If either ballot question I or II
fails to be approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting on the
measure, both fail.
G.Except as otherwise provided by this section, the
election under this section shall be conducted as nearly as practicable in the
manner prescribed for general elections in title 16.
H.The county election officer shall account for
costs specifically incurred with respect to the ballot issue under this
section. Regardless of the outcome of
the election, and notwithstanding any other law, the state treasurer shall pay
the costs listed in this subsection that are specifically incurred with respect
to the ballot issue. Payment shall be made under this section from the cities'
and towns' share of local transportation assistance fund monies distributed
under section 288102 to the cities and towns within the county, and from
the county's share of the county assistance fund established by section 41175.If
the transportation excise tax is approved, the regional transportation
authority shall reimburse the local transportation assistance fund established
by section 28-8101 and the county assistance fund established by section 41-175
from the first received transportation excise tax revenues. The following
costs incurred by the county elections officer are authorized for payment
pursuant to this subsection:
1.Costs of
mailing, publishing, posting and printing ballots, publicity pamphlets,
notices, election materials and other matters concerning the election.
2.Legal and
other consulting fees and costs relating to the election.
3.Telecommunications
costs.
4.Compensation
of the election board, county election officers and employees and other labor
costs incurred to administer, hold, canvass and announce the results of the
election.
5.Any other
costs attributable to the election. END_STATUTE

