



PREFILED DEC 07 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: private fund advisers; exemption







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1005









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D: Shooter; Representatives Cobb, Lawrence, Norgaard, Petersen,
  Thorpe, Townsend





AN ACT

amending section
44-3152, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to investment management.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-3152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-3152.Exemption of certain investment advisers and investment
adviser representatives; private fund adviser exemption; definitions
A.An investment adviser is not required to be
licensed or make a notice filing under this chapter if that investment adviser
does not have a place of business in this state and either:
1.Its only clients in this state are investment
companies, other investment advisers, dealers, depository institutions,
insurance companies, employee benefit plans with assets of not less than one
million dollars and governmental agencies or instrumentalities, whether acting
for themselves or as trustees with investment control.
2.During the preceding twelve months it had fewer
than six clients who are residents of this state other than those clients
specified in paragraph 1 of this
subsection.
B.An
investment adviser is not required to be licensed or make a notice filing under
this chapter if that investment adviser is a private fund adviser who:
1.Satisfies
each of the following conditions:
(a)The private fund adviser or any
of its advisory affiliates are not subject to an event that would disqualify an
issuer under SEC rule 262 of regulation A (17 Code of Federal Regulations
section 230.262).
(b)The private fund adviser to a
qualifying private fund that is not a venture capital company files with the
commission each report and each report amendment that the investment adviser is
required to file with the sec pursuant to SEC rule 204-4 (17 Code of Federal
Regulations section 275.2044).The private fund adviser shall
electronically file the reports with the commission through the IARD. A report
is deemed filed when the report and the fee required by subdivision (c) of this paragraph are accepted by the IARD
on this state's behalf.
(c)The private fund adviser to a
qualifying private fund that is not a venture capital company has paid a fee of
one hundred twenty-five dollars to the commission for each calendar year in
which it relies on the exemption provided by this subsection.
2.Except as
provided in subsection H of this section, advises at least one retail buyer
fund and who complies with paragraph 1 of this subsection and all of the
following requirements with respect to each retail buyer fund advised by the
private fund adviser:
(a)The private fund adviser only
advises those retail buyer funds whose outstanding securities, other than
short-term paper, are beneficially owned entirely by either:
(i)Any Person who, at the time that
the securities are sold, the private fund adviser reasonably believes to be an
accredited investor as defined in SEC rule 501(a) of regulation D (17 Code of Federal Regulations section
230.501(a)) or who is a
manager, director, officer or employee of the private fund adviser.
(ii)Any person that obtains the
security through a transfer not involving a sale of that security.
(b)At or before the time of
purchase of any security of a retail buyer fund, the private fund adviser
discloses in writing to the purchaser of the security both of the following:
(i)All services, if any, to be
provided by the investment adviser to a purchaser of securities of the retail
buyer fund and to the retail buyer fund itself.
(ii)All duties, if any, that the
investment adviser owes to a purchaser of securities of the retail buyer fund
and to the retail buyer fund itself.
(c)The private fund adviser obtains
on an annual basis audited financial statements of each retail buyer fund that
is advised by the private fund adviser and delivers a copy of the audited
financial statements to each purchaser of securities of the retail buyer fund.
this subdivision does not apply to a limited retail buyer fund with respect to
any annual period for which each owner of outstanding securities of the limited
retail buyer fund has waived the application of this subdivision after the
beginning of the annual period to which the waiver applies.
C.If a
private fund adviser is registered with the SEC, the private fund adviser is
not eligible for the exemption provided by subsection B of this section.
D.A person
is not required to be licensed or to make a notice filing under this chapter if
the person is employed by or associated with an investment adviser that is not
required to be licensed or make a notice filing under this chapter pursuant to
subsection B of this section and the person does not otherwise act as an
investment adviser representative.
E.An
investment adviser who becomes ineligible for the exemption provided by
subsection B of this section must comply with all applicable laws and rules
requiring licensing or notice filing within ninety days after the date that the
investment adviser's eligibility for the exemption ceases.
F.Subsection
B, paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of this section does not apply on a showing of good cause
and without prejudice to any other commission action if the commission
determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that an exemption
be denied.
G.Compliance
with subsection B, paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section does not relieve a private fund adviser of
any disclosure obligation under any other state or federal law.
H.An
investment adviser to a retail buyer fund that existed before September 1, 2016
and that does not satisfy the conditions prescribed by subsection B, paragraph
2, subdivision (a) of
this section on September 1, 2016 may be eligible for the exemption prescribed
by subsection B, paragraph1 of this section if all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
1.Beginning
on September 1, 2016, the retail buyer fund ceases to sell securities to
persons other than the persons described in subsection B, paragraph 2,
subdivision (a), item (i) of this section.
2.The
investment adviser discloses in writing the information described in subsection
B, paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section to each purchaser of securities of the
retail buyer fund by December 1, 2016.
3.For every
fiscal year ending after August 31, 2016, the investment adviser delivers
audited financial statements to each owner of securities of the retail buyer
fund as required by Subsection B, paragraph 2, subdivision(c) of this section.
B.I.If
the commission determines that it is not necessary for any investment adviser
or class of investment advisers or investment adviser representative or class
of investment adviser representatives to be licensed to protect the public
interest because of the special characteristics of the securities or transactions
in which the investment adviser or investment adviser representative may be
involved, the commission may by rule or order provide limited licensure
requirements or exempt these persons from licensure under this article.
C.J.A
dealer or salesman that is registered with the commission pursuant to chapter
12, article 9 of this title is not required to be licensed, make a notice
filing or comply with reporting requirements under this article.
D.K.The
authorized use of the designation "chartered financial consultant" by
an insurance producer licensed by the department of insurance does not in and
of itself constitute holding oneself out to the public as an investment adviser
or require a license under this article.
l.subsection
b of this section does not exempt an investment adviser who has custody of any
securities or funds of any client from complying with commission rules relating
to the custody of client funds or securities by investment advisers.
M.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Advisory
affiliate" has the same meaning prescribed in the glossary of terms to
form ADV, which is the uniform application for investment adviser registration
(17 Code of Federal Regulations section 279.1) or its successor form.
2."Affiliated
person" means a person that controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with the other specified persons.
3."Control"
means possessing, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the
direction of management and policies.
4."Derivative
investment" means an acquisition of securities by a venture capital
company in the ordinary course of its business in exchange for an existing
venture capital investment, either on the exercise or conversion of the
existing venture capital investment or in connection with a public offering of
securities or the merger or reorganization of the operating company to which
the existing venture capital investment relates.
5."entity"
means a partnership, corporation, trust, limited liability company, limited
liability partnership, sole proprietorship or other organization.
6."limited
retail buyer fund" means a retail buyer fund that satisfies all of the
following conditions:
(a)has no more than, or the private
fund adviser reasonably believes that the fund has no more than, fifteen
purchasers of securities, individually or collectively with all other limited
retail buyer funds, that are advised by the private fund adviser or an
affiliated person.
(b)each purchaser of securities
from the limited retail buyer fund that is not a qualified purchaser, as
defined in section 2(a)(51)
of the investment company act of 1940, has the knowledge and experience in
financial and business matters so that the purchaser is capable of evaluating
the merits and risks of the prospective investment, or the private fund adviser
reasonably believes that each purchaser is capable of evaluating the merits and
risks of the prospective investment immediately before the investment.
(c)the private fund adviser and any
affiliated person do not hold themselves out to the public as an investment
adviser and the private fund adviser and any affiliated person do not act as an
investment adviser to any investment company registered under the investment
company act of 1940.
(d)the private fund adviser and any
affiliated person have not offered or sold any securities of the limited retail
buyer fund by any form of general solicitation or general advertising.
7."Management
rights" means the right, obtained contractually or through ownership of
securities, either through one person alone or in conjunction with one or more
persons acting together or through an affiliated person, to substantially
participate in, substantially influence the conduct of or provide or offer to
provide significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations
or business objectives of the operating company in which the venture capital
investment is made.
8."Operating
company":
(a)Means an entity that is primarily engaged, directly or
through a majority owned subsidiary, in the production or sale, including any
research or development, of a product or service other than the management or
investment of capital.
(b)Does not include an individual or sole proprietorship.
9."person"
means an individual or an entity.
10."Private
fund adviser" means an investment adviser who provides advice solely to
one or more qualifying private funds.
11."Qualifying
private fund" means an issuer that qualifies for the exclusion from the
definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(1), 3(c)(5) or 3(c)(7)
of the investment company act of
1940. 
12."Retail
buyer fund" means a qualifying private fund that is neither a venture
capital company nor a qualifying private fund that qualifies for the exclusion
from the definition of an investment company under section 3(c)(7) of
the investment company act of 1940. 
13."Venture
capital company" means an entity that satisfies at least one of the
following conditions:
(a)The entity is a venture capital fund as defined in SEC rule
203(l)-1 (17 Code of Federal Regulations section 275.203(l)-1).
(b)The entity is a venture capital operating company as defined
in SEC rule
2510.3-101(d) (29 Code of Federal Regulations section 2510.3101(d)).
(c)On at least one occasion during the annual period commencing
with the date of its initial capitalization, and on at least one occasion
during each annual period thereafter, at least fifty percent of its assets
other than short-term investments pending long-term commitment or distribution to
investors, valued at cost, are venture capital investments or derivative
investments.
14."Venture
capital investment" means an acquisition of securities of an operating
company as to which the investment adviser, the entity advised by the
investment adviser or an affiliated person of either has or obtains management
rights.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
Section 44-3152, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this
act, is effective from and after August 31, 2016.

