



PREFILED DEC 17 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: school instruction; AIDS; homosexuality







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1019









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Dalessandro, Hobbs, Sherwood; Representatives Alston, Andrade,
  Bolding, Cardenas, Espinoza, Gonzales, Larkin, Mach, Mendez, Rios, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending section
15716, Arizona Revised Statutes; RELATING to school curriculum.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-716, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-716.Instruction on acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
department assistance
A.Each common, high and unified school district may
provide instruction to kindergarten programs through the twelfth grade on
acquired immune deficiency syndrome and the human immunodeficiency virus.
B.Each district is free to develop its own course
of study for each grade.At a minimum, instruction shall:
1.Be appropriate to the grade level in which it is
offered.
2.Be medically accurate.
3.Promote abstinence.
4.Discourage drug abuse.
5.Dispel myths regarding transmission of the human
immunodeficiency virus.
C.No district
shall include in its course of study instruction which:
1.Promotes a
homosexual lifestyle.
2.Portrays
homosexuality as a positive alternative lifestyle.
3.Suggests
that some methods of sex are safe methods of homosexual sex.
D.C.At the request of
a school district, the department of health services or the department of
education shall review instruction materials to determine their medical
accuracy.
E.D.At the request of
a school district, the department of education shall provide the following
assistance:
1.A suggested course of study.
2.Teacher training.
3.A list of available films and other teaching
aids.
F.E.At the request of
a parent, a pupil shall be excused from instruction on the acquired immune deficiency
syndrome and the human immunodeficiency virus as provided in subsection A of
this section.The school district shall notify all parents of their
ability to withdraw their child from the instruction. END_STATUTE

