







REFERENCE TITLE: secured residential communities; process
  servers 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1088









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending title
33, chapter 9, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 331262;
amending title 33, chapter 16, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 331819; amending title 33, chapter 17, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 33-1908; relating to process servers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 33, chapter 9, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 33-1262, to read:
START_STATUTE33-1262.Process servers; access to condominiums; prohibited
disclosure; civil penalty
A.An
association or its agent shall allow a process server to access the common
elements of a condominium to serve process as follows:
1.By
entering the common elements of the condominium through any open gate to serve
process.
2.If a
security guard or another person is present at the entrance to the common
elements, on presentation by the process server of the process server's identification
and the service of process to the security guard or other person.
3.If access
to the common elements of the condominium is restricted by a locked, unattended
gate, on the process server's sending by registered mail to the association or
its agent a copy of the process server's identification and a copy of the
service of process.
b.A
security guard or any other employee or agent of an association is prohibited
from notifying the person who lives in the condominium that a process server is
attempting to serve that person with service of process.
c.The
attorney general or the county attorney for the county in which an alleged
violation of subsection B of this section occurred may serve on the person an
order requiring compliance with this section and may assess a civil penalty of
not more than two hundred fifty dollars per violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 33, chapter 16, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 33-1819, to read:
START_STATUTE33-1819.Process servers; access to planned communities; prohibited
disclosure; civil penalty
A.An
association or its agent shall allow a process server to access a planned
community to serve process as follows:
1.By
entering the planned community through any open gate to serve process.
2.If a
security guard or another person is present at the entrance to the planned
community, on presentation by the process server of the process server's
identification and the service of process to the security guard or other
person.
3.If access
to the planned community is restricted by a locked, unattended gate, on the
process server's sending by registered mail to the association or its agent a
copy of the process server's identification and a copy of the service of
process.
b.A
security guard or any other employee or agent of an association is prohibited
from notifying the person who lives in the planned community that a process
server is attempting to serve that person with service of process.
C.The
attorney general or the county attorney for the county in which an alleged
violation of subsection B of this section occurred may serve on the person an
order requiring compliance with this section and may assess a civil penalty of
not more than two hundred fifty dollars per violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 33, chapter 17, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 33-1908, to read:
START_STATUTE33-1908.Process servers; access to gated or secured apartment
communities; prohibited disclosure; civil penalty; definition
A.An owner
or managing agent of a gated or secured apartment community shall allow a
process server to access the gated or secured areas OF an apartment community
to serve process as follows:
1.By
entering the gated or secured areas through any open gate or door to serve
process.
2.if a
security guard or another person is present at the entrance to the gated or
secured area, on presentation by the process server of the process server's
identification and the service of process to the security guard or other
person.
3.If access
to the gated or secured area of the apartment community is restricted by a
locked, unattended gate or door, on the process server's sending by registered
mail to the owner or managing agent a copy of the process server's
identification and a copy of the service of process.
B.A
security guard or any other employee or agent of an owner or managing agent is
prohibited from notifying the person who lives in the apartment community that
a process server is attempting to serve that person with service of process.
C.The
attorney general or the county attorney for the county in which an alleged
violation of subsection b of this section occurred may serve on the person an
order requiring compliance with this section and may assess a civil penalty of
not more than two hundred fifty dollars per violation.
D.For the
purposes of this section, "apartment community" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 40360.21. END_STATUTE

