



PREFILED DEC 23 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: immigration; law enforcement; repeal.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1026









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Andrade, Cardenas, Velasquez





AN ACT

Repealing Title
11, Chapter 7, Article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 12-116.04,
Arizona Revised Statutes; Repealing section 13-1509, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending section 13-2319, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 13-2928
and 13-2929, Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending sections 13-3883, 23-212,
23-212.01, 23-214 and 28-3511, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section
41-1724, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to immigration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Title 11, chapter 7, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Section
12-116.04, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-116.04.Assessment; law enforcement officer equipment
A.In addition to any
other penalty assessment provided by law, a penalty assessment shall be levied
in an amount of thirteen dollars on every fine, penalty and forfeiture imposed
and collected by the courts for criminal offenses and any civil penalty imposed
and collected for a civil traffic violation and fine, penalty or forfeiture for
a violation of the motor vehicle statutes, for any local ordinance relating to
the stopping, standing or operation of a vehicle or for a violation of the game
and fish statutes in title 17.
B.The court shall
transmit the assessments collected pursuant to this section and a remittance
report of the fines, civil penalties and assessments collected pursuant to this
section to the county treasurer, except that municipal courts shall transmit
the assessments and the remittance report of the fines, civil penalties and
assessments to the city treasurer.
C.The city or county
treasurer shall transmit eight dollars of the assessment and the remittance
report to the state treasurer.The state
treasurer shall for
deposit four dollars of the assessment
in the public safety equipment fund established by section 411723 and the remaining four dollars of the assessment in the gang
and immigration intelligence team enforcement mission border security and law
enforcement subaccount established by section 411724.
D.The city or county
treasurer shall transmit four dollars of the assessment and the remittance
report to the agency that investigated the offense or issued the citation to be
used to supplement, not supplant, monies available for officer safety
equipment.
E.The city treasurer
shall transmit one dollar of the assessment and the remittance report to the
county treasurer. The county treasurer shall transmit one dollar of the
assessment and any monies received from the city treasurer pursuant to this
subsection to the following entities to be used to improve, maintain and
enhance the ability to collect and manage monies assessed or received by the
courts, to improve court automation and to improve case processing or the
administration of justice:
1.In a county with a
population of less than two million persons, to the justice courts, distributed
proportionally based on the judicial productivity credits calculated pursuant
to section 22125.
2.In a county with a
population of two million persons or more, to the justice court administration.
END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 13-1509,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Section 13-2319, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2319.Smuggling; classification; definitions
A.It
is unlawful for a person to intentionally engage in the smuggling of human
beings for profit or commercial purpose.
B.A violation of this
section is a class 4 felony.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection B of this section, a violation of this section:
1.Is a class 2 felony
if the human being who is smuggled is under eighteen years of age and is not
accompanied by a family member over eighteen years of age or the offense
involved the use of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument.
2.Is a class 3 felony
if the offense involves the use or threatened use of deadly physical force and
the person is not eligible for suspension of sentence, probation, pardon or
release from confinement on any other basis except pursuant to section 31233,
subsection A or B until the sentence imposed by the court is served, the person
is eligible for release pursuant to section 411604.07 or the sentence is
commuted.
D.Chapter 10 of this
title does not apply to a violation of subsection C, paragraph 1 of this
section.
E.Notwithstanding
any other law, in the enforcement of this section a peace officer may lawfully
stop any person who is operating a motor vehicle if the officer has reasonable
suspicion to believe the person is in violation of any civil traffic law.
F.e.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Family
member" means the person's parent, grandparent, sibling or any other
person who is related to the person by consanguinity or affinity to the second
degree.
2."Procurement of
transportation" means any participation in or facilitation of
transportation and includes:
(a)Providing services
that facilitate transportation including travel arrangement services or money
transmission services.
(b)Providing property
that facilitates transportation, including a weapon, a vehicle or other means
of transportation or false identification, or selling, leasing, renting or
otherwise making available a drop house as defined in section 132322.
3."Smuggling of
human beings" means the transportation, procurement of transportation or
use of property or real property by a person or an entity that knows or has
reason to know that the person or persons transported or to be transported are
not United States citizens, permanent resident aliens or persons otherwise lawfully
in this state or have attempted to enter, entered or remained in the United
States in violation of law. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Repeal
Sections 13-2928
and 13-2929, Arizona
Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.6.Section 13-3883, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3883.Arrest by officer without warrant
A.A peace officer,
without a warrant, may arrest a person if the officer has probable cause to
believe:
1.A felony has been
committed and probable cause to believe the person to be arrested has committed
the felony.
2.A misdemeanor has
been committed in the officer's presence and probable cause to believe the
person to be arrested has committed the offense.
3.The person to be
arrested has been involved in a traffic accident and violated any criminal
section of title 28, and that such violation occurred prior to or immediately
following such traffic accident.
4.A misdemeanor or a
petty offense has been committed and probable cause to believe the person to be
arrested has committed the offense.A person arrested under this
paragraph is eligible for release under section 133903.
5.The
person to be arrested has committed any public offense that makes the person
removable from the United States.
B.A peace officer may
stop and detain a person as is reasonably necessary to investigate an actual or
suspected violation of any traffic law committed in the officer's presence and
may serve a copy of the traffic complaint for any alleged civil or criminal
traffic violation.A peace officer who serves a copy of the traffic
complaint shall do so within a reasonable time of the alleged criminal or civil
traffic violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
23-212, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-212.Knowingly employing unauthorized aliens; prohibition;
false and frivolous complaints; violation; classification; license suspension
and revocation
A.An employer shall not
knowingly employ an unauthorized alien. If, in the case when an employer uses
a contract, subcontract or other independent contractor agreement to obtain the
labor of an alien in this state, the employer knowingly contracts with an
unauthorized alien or with a person who employs or contracts with an
unauthorized alien to perform the labor, the employer violates this subsection.
B.The attorney general
shall prescribe a complaint form for a person to allege a violation of
subsection A of this section.The complainant shall not be required
to list the complainant's social security number on the complaint form or to
have the complaint form notarized. On receipt of a complaint on a prescribed
complaint form that an employer allegedly knowingly employs an unauthorized
alien, the attorney general or county attorney shall investigate whether the
employer has violated subsection A of this section. If a complaint is received
but is not submitted on a prescribed complaint form, the attorney general or
county attorney may investigate whether the employer has violated subsection A
of this section. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the filing
of anonymous complaints that are not submitted on a prescribed complaint form.
The attorney general or county attorney shall not investigate complaints that
are based solely on race, color or national origin. A complaint that is
submitted to a county attorney shall be submitted to the county attorney in the
county in which the alleged unauthorized alien is or was employed by the
employer. The county sheriff or any other local law enforcement agency may
assist in investigating a complaint. When investigating a complaint, the
attorney general or county attorney shall verify the work authorization of the
alleged unauthorized alien with the federal government pursuant to 8 United
States Code section 1373(c).A state, county or local official shall
not attempt to independently make a final determination on whether an alien is
authorized to work in the United States.An alien's immigration
status or work authorization status shall be verified with the federal
government pursuant to 8 United States Code section 1373(c). A person who
knowingly files a false and frivolous complaint under this subsection is guilty
of a class 3 misdemeanor.
C.If, after an
investigation, the attorney general or county attorney determines that the
complaint is not false and frivolous:
1.The attorney general
or county attorney shall notify the United States immigration and customs
enforcement of the unauthorized alien.
2.The attorney general
or county attorney shall notify the local law enforcement agency of the
unauthorized alien.
3.The attorney general
shall notify the appropriate county attorney to bring an action pursuant to
subsection D of this section if the complaint was originally filed with the
attorney general.
D.An action for a
violation of subsection A of this section shall be brought against the employer
by the county attorney in the county where the unauthorized alien employee is
or was employed by the employer. The county attorney shall not bring an action
against any employer for any violation of subsection A of this section that
occurs before January 1, 2008. A second violation of this section shall be
based only on an unauthorized alien who is or was employed by the employer
after an action has been brought for a violation of subsection A of this
section or section 23212.01, subsection A.
E.For any action in
superior court under this section, the court shall expedite the action,
including assigning the hearing at the earliest practicable date.
F.On a finding of a
violation of subsection A of this section:
1.For a first
violation, as described in paragraph 3 of this subsection, the court:
(a)Shall order the
employer to terminate the employment of all unauthorized aliens.
(b)Shall order the
employer to be subject to a three year probationary period for the business
location where the unauthorized alien performed work.During the
probationary period the employer shall file quarterly reports in the form
provided in section 23722.01 with the county attorney of each new
employee who is hired by the employer at the business location where the
unauthorized alien performed work.
(c)Shall order the
employer to file a signed sworn affidavit with the county attorney within three
business days after the order is issued.The affidavit shall state
that the employer has terminated the employment of all unauthorized aliens in
this state and that the employer will not intentionally or knowingly employ an
unauthorized alien in this state. The court shall order the appropriate
agencies to suspend all licenses subject to this subdivision that are held by
the employer if the employer fails to file a signed sworn affidavit with the
county attorney within three business days after the order is
issued.All licenses that are suspended under this subdivision shall
remain suspended until the employer files a signed sworn affidavit with the
county attorney. Notwithstanding any other law, on filing of the affidavit the
suspended licenses shall be reinstated immediately by the appropriate
agencies. For the purposes of this subdivision, the licenses that are subject
to suspension under this subdivision are all licenses that are held by the
employer specific to the business location where the unauthorized alien
performed work. If the employer does not hold a license specific to the
business location where the unauthorized alien performed work, but a license is
necessary to operate the employer's business in general, the licenses that are
subject to suspension under this subdivision are all licenses that are held by
the employer at the employer's primary place of business. On receipt of the
court's order and notwithstanding any other law, the appropriate agencies shall
suspend the licenses according to the court's order. The court shall send a
copy of the court's order to the attorney general and the attorney general
shall maintain the copy pursuant to subsection G of this section.
(d)May order the
appropriate agencies to suspend all licenses described in subdivision (c) of
this paragraph that are held by the employer for not to exceed ten business
days. The court shall base its decision to suspend under this subdivision on
any evidence or information submitted to it during the action for a violation
of this subsection and shall consider the following factors, if relevant:
(i)The number of
unauthorized aliens employed by the employer.
(ii)Any prior
misconduct by the employer.
(iii)The degree of harm
resulting from the violation.
(iv)Whether the
employer made good faith efforts to comply with any applicable requirements.
(v)The duration of the
violation.
(vi)The role of the
directors, officers or principals of the employer in the violation.
(vii)Any other factors
the court deems appropriate.
2.For a second
violation, as described in paragraph 3 of this subsection, the court shall
order the appropriate agencies to permanently revoke all licenses that are held
by the employer specific to the business location where the unauthorized alien
performed work. If the employer does not hold a license specific to the
business location where the unauthorized alien performed work, but a license is
necessary to operate the employer's business in general, the court shall order
the appropriate agencies to permanently revoke all licenses that are held by
the employer at the employer's primary place of business.On receipt
of the order and notwithstanding any other law, the appropriate agencies shall
immediately revoke the licenses.
3.The violation shall
be considered:
(a)A first violation by
an employer at a business location if the violation did not occur during a
probationary period ordered by the court under this subsection or section 23212.01,
subsection F for that employer's business location.
(b)A second violation
by an employer at a business location if the violation occurred during a
probationary period ordered by the court under this subsection or section 23212.01,
subsection F for that employer's business location.
G.The attorney general
shall maintain copies of court orders that are received pursuant to subsection
F of this section and shall maintain a database of the employers and business
locations that have a first violation of subsection A of this section and make
the court orders available on the attorney general's website.
H.On determining
whether an employee is an unauthorized alien, the court shall consider only the
federal government's determination pursuant to 8 United States Code section
1373(c). The federal government's determination creates a rebuttable
presumption of the employee's lawful status. The court may take judicial
notice of the federal government's determination and may request the federal
government to provide automated or testimonial verification pursuant to 8
United States Code section 1373(c).
I.For the purposes of
this section, proof of verifying the employment authorization of an employee
through the e-verify program creates a rebuttable presumption that an employer
did not knowingly employ an unauthorized alien.
J.For the purposes of
this section, an employer that establishes that it has complied in good faith
with the requirements of 8 United States Code section 1324a(b) establishes an
affirmative defense that the employer did not knowingly employ an unauthorized
alien. An employer is considered to have complied with the requirements of 8
United States Code section 1324a(b), notwithstanding an isolated, sporadic or
accidental technical or procedural failure to meet the requirements, if there
is a good faith attempt to comply with the requirements.
K.It
is an affirmative defense to a violation of subsection A of this section that
the employer was entrapped.To claim entrapment, the employer must
admit by the employer's testimony or other evidence the substantial elements of
the violation. An employer who asserts an entrapment defense has the burden of
proving the following by a preponderance of the evidence:
1.The
idea of committing the violation started with law enforcement officers or their
agents rather than with the employer.
2.The
law enforcement officers or their agents urged and induced the employer to
commit the violation.
3.The
employer was not predisposed to commit the violation before the law enforcement
officers or their agents urged and induced the employer to commit the
violation.
L.An
employer does not establish entrapment if the employer was predisposed to
violate subsection A of this section and the law enforcement officers or their
agents merely provided the employer with an opportunity to commit the
violation. It is not entrapment for law enforcement officers or their agents
merely to use a ruse or to conceal their identity.The conduct of
law enforcement officers and their agents may be considered in determining if
an employer has proven entrapment. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
23-212.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-212.01.Intentionally employing unauthorized aliens; prohibition;
false and frivolous complaints; violation; classification; license suspension
and revocation
A.An employer shall not
intentionally employ an unauthorized alien. If, in the case when an employer
uses a contract, subcontract or other independent contractor agreement to
obtain the labor of an alien in this state, the employer intentionally
contracts with an unauthorized alien or with a person who employs or contracts
with an unauthorized alien to perform the labor, the employer violates this
subsection.
B.The attorney general
shall prescribe a complaint form for a person to allege a violation of
subsection A of this section. The complainant shall not be required to list
the complainant's social security number on the complaint form or to have the
complaint form notarized. On receipt of a complaint on a prescribed complaint
form that an employer allegedly intentionally employs an unauthorized alien,
the attorney general or county attorney shall investigate whether the employer
has violated subsection A of this section.If a complaint is received
but is not submitted on a prescribed complaint form, the attorney general or
county attorney may investigate whether the employer has violated
subsectionA of this section. This subsection shall not be construed to
prohibit the filing of anonymous complaints that are not submitted on a
prescribed complaint form.The attorney general or county attorney
shall not investigate complaints that are based solely on race, color or
national origin.A complaint that is submitted to a county attorney
shall be submitted to the county attorney in the county in which the alleged
unauthorized alien is or was employed by the employer. The county sheriff or
any other local law enforcement agency may assist in investigating a
complaint. When investigating a complaint, the attorney general or county
attorney shall verify the work authorization of the alleged unauthorized alien
with the federal government pursuant to 8United States Code section
1373(c). A state, county or local official shall not attempt to independently
make a final determination on whether an alien is authorized to work in the
United States.An alien's immigration status or work authorization
status shall be verified with the federal government pursuant to 8 United
States Code section 1373(c). A person who knowingly files a false and
frivolous complaint under this subsection is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
C.If, after an
investigation, the attorney general or county attorney determines that the
complaint is not false and frivolous:
1.The attorney general or
county attorney shall notify the United States immigration and customs
enforcement of the unauthorized alien.
2.The attorney general
or county attorney shall notify the local law enforcement agency of the
unauthorized alien.
3.The attorney general
shall notify the appropriate county attorney to bring an action pursuant to
subsection D of this section if the complaint was originally filed with the
attorney general.
D.An action for a
violation of subsection A of this section shall be brought against the employer
by the county attorney in the county where the unauthorized alien employee is
or was employed by the employer. The county attorney shall not bring an action
against any employer for any violation of subsection A of this section that
occurs before January 1, 2008. A second violation of this section shall be
based only on an unauthorized alien who is or was employed by the employer
after an action has been brought for a violation of subsection A of this
section or section 23212, subsectionA.
E.For any action in
superior court under this section, the court shall expedite the action,
including assigning the hearing at the earliest practicable date.
F.On
a finding of a violation of subsection A of this section:
1.For
a first violation, as described in paragraph 3 of this subsection, the court
shall:
(a)Order the employer
to terminate the employment of all unauthorized aliens.
(b)Order the employer
to be subject to a five year probationary period for the business location
where the unauthorized alien performed work. During the probationary period the
employer shall file quarterly reports in the form provided in section 23722.01
with the county attorney of each new employee who is hired by the employer at
the business location where the unauthorized alien performed work.
(c)Order the
appropriate agencies to suspend all licenses described in subdivision (d) of
this paragraph that are held by the employer for a minimum of ten days. The
court shall base its decision on the length of the suspension under this
subdivision on any evidence or information submitted to it during the action
for a violation of this subsection and shall consider the following factors, if
relevant:
(i)The number of
unauthorized aliens employed by the employer.
(ii)Any prior
misconduct by the employer.
(iii)The degree of harm
resulting from the violation.
(iv)Whether the
employer made good faith efforts to comply with any applicable requirements.
(v)The duration of the
violation.
(vi)The role of the
directors, officers or principals of the employer in the violation.
(vii)Any other factors
the court deems appropriate.
(d)Order the employer
to file a signed sworn affidavit with the county attorney. The affidavit shall
state that the employer has terminated the employment of all unauthorized
aliens in this state and that the employer will not intentionally or knowingly
employ an unauthorized alien in this state.The court shall order
the appropriate agencies to suspend all licenses subject to this subdivision
that are held by the employer if the employer fails to file a signed sworn
affidavit with the county attorney within three business days after the order
is issued.All licenses that are suspended under this subdivision
for failing to file a signed sworn affidavit shall remain suspended until the
employer files a signed sworn affidavit with the county attorney. For the
purposes of this subdivision, the licenses that are subject to suspension under
this subdivision are all licenses that are held by the employer specific to the
business location where the unauthorized alien performed work. If the employer
does not hold a license specific to the business location where the
unauthorized alien performed work, but a license is necessary to operate the
employer's business in general, the licenses that are subject to suspension
under this subdivision are all licenses that are held by the employer at the
employer's primary place of business. On receipt of the court's order and
notwithstanding any other law, the appropriate agencies shall suspend the
licenses according to the court's order.The court shall send a copy
of the court's order to the attorney general and the attorney general shall
maintain the copy pursuant to subsection G of this section.
2.For a second
violation, as described in paragraph 3 of this subsection, the court shall
order the appropriate agencies to permanently revoke all licenses that are held
by the employer specific to the business location where the unauthorized alien
performed work. If the employer does not hold a license specific to the
business location where the unauthorized alien performed work, but a license is
necessary to operate the employer's business in general, the court shall order
the appropriate agencies to permanently revoke all licenses that are held by
the employer at the employer's primary place of business.On receipt
of the order and notwithstanding any other law, the appropriate agencies shall
immediately revoke the licenses.
3.The violation shall
be considered:
(a)A first violation by
an employer at a business location if the violation did not occur during a
probationary period ordered by the court under this subsection or section 23212,
subsection F for that employer's business location.
(b)A second violation
by an employer at a business location if the violation occurred during a
probationary period ordered by the court under this subsection or section 23212,
subsection F for that employer's business location.
G.The attorney general
shall maintain copies of court orders that are received pursuant to subsection
F of this section and shall maintain a database of the employers and business
locations that have a first violation of subsection A of this section and make
the court orders available on the attorney general's website.
H.On determining
whether an employee is an unauthorized alien, the court shall consider only the
federal government's determination pursuant to 8 United States Code section
1373(c). The federal government's determination creates a rebuttable
presumption of the employee's lawful status. The court may take judicial
notice of the federal government's determination and may request the federal
government to provide automated or testimonial verification pursuant to 8
United States Code section 1373(c).
I.For the purposes of
this section, proof of verifying the employment authorization of an employee
through the e-verify program creates a rebuttable presumption that an employer
did not intentionally employ an unauthorized alien.
J.For the purposes of
this section, an employer that establishes that it has complied in good faith
with the requirements of 8 United States Code section 1324a(b) establishes an
affirmative defense that the employer did not intentionally employ an
unauthorized alien. An employer is considered to have complied with the
requirements of 8 United States Code section 1324a(b), notwithstanding an
isolated, sporadic or accidental technical or procedural failure to meet the
requirements, if there is a good faith attempt to comply with the requirements.
K.It
is an affirmative defense to a violation of subsection A of this section that
the employer was entrapped.To claim entrapment, the employer must
admit by the employer's testimony or other evidence the substantial elements of
the violation. An employer who asserts an entrapment defense has the burden of
proving the following by a preponderance of the evidence:
1.The
idea of committing the violation started with law enforcement officers or their
agents rather than with the employer.
2.The
law enforcement officers or their agents urged and induced the employer to
commit the violation.
3.The
employer was not predisposed to commit the violation before the law enforcement
officers or their agents urged and induced the employer to commit the
violation.
L.An
employer does not establish entrapment if the employer was predisposed to
violate subsection A of this section and the law enforcement officers or their
agents merely provided the employer with an opportunity to commit the
violation. It is not entrapment for law enforcement officers or their agents
merely to use a ruse or to conceal their identity. The conduct of law
enforcement officers and their agents may be considered in determining if an
employer has proven entrapment. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section
23-214, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-214.Verification of employment eligibility; everify
program; economic development incentives; list of registered employers
A.After December 31, 2007, Every employer, after
hiring an employee, shall verify the employment eligibility of the employee
through the e-verify program and shall keep a record
of the verification for the duration of the employee's employment or at least
three years, whichever is longer.
B.In addition to any
other requirement for an employer to receive an economic development incentive
from a government entity, the employer shall register with and participate in
the e-verify program. Before receiving the economic development incentive, the
employer shall provide proof to the government entity that the employer is
registered with and is participating in the e-verify program.If the
government entity determines that the employer is not complying with this
subsection, the government entity shall notify the employer by certified mail
of the government entity's determination of noncompliance and the employer's
right to appeal the determination. On a final determination of noncompliance,
the employer shall repay all monies received as an economic development
incentive to the government entity within thirty days of the final
determination. For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Economic
development incentive" means any grant, loan or performance-based
incentive from any government entity that is awarded after September 30, 2008.
Economic development incentive does not include any tax provision under title
42 or 43.
2."Government
entity" means this state and any political subdivision of this state that
receives and uses tax revenues.
C.Every three months
the attorney general shall request from the United States department of
homeland security a list of employers from this state that are registered with
the e-verify program. On receipt of the list of employers, the attorney
general shall make the list available on the attorney general's website. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 28-3511, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3511.Removal and immobilization or
impoundment of vehicle; Arizona crime information center database
A.A peace officer shall cause the removal and
either immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle if the peace officer
determines that:
1.A person is driving the vehicle while any of the
following applies:
(a)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph subdivision, the person's driving privilege
is suspended or revoked for any reason. A peace officer shall not cause the
removal and either immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to this paragraph subdivision if the person's privilege to drive
is valid in this state.
(b)The person has not ever been issued a valid
driver license or permit by this state and the person does not produce evidence
of ever having a valid driver license or permit issued by another
jurisdiction. This paragraph
subdivision does not
apply to the operation of an implement of husbandry.
(c)The person is subject to an ignition interlock
device requirement pursuant to chapter 4 of this title and the person is
operating a vehicle without a functioning certified ignition interlock device.
This paragraph subdivision does not apply to
the operation of a vehicle due to a substantial emergency as defined in section
281464.
(d)In
furtherance of the illegal presence of an alien in the United States and in
violation of a criminal offense, the person is transporting or moving or
attempting to transport or move an alien in this state in a vehicle if the
person knows or recklessly disregards the fact that the alien has come to, has
entered or remains in the United States in violation of law.
(e)The person
is concealing, harboring or shielding or attempting to conceal, harbor or
shield from detection an alien in this state in a vehicle if the person knows
or recklessly disregards the fact that the alien has come to, entered or
remains in the United States in violation of law.
2.A The vehicle is displayed for
sale or for transfer of ownership with a vehicle identification number that has
been destroyed, removed, covered, altered or defaced.
B.A peace officer shall cause the removal and
impoundment of a vehicle if the peace officer determines that a person is
driving the vehicle and if all of the following apply:
1.The person's driving privilege is canceled,
suspended or revoked for any reason or the person has not ever been issued a
driver license or permit by this state and the person does not produce evidence
of ever having a driver license or permit issued by another jurisdiction.
2.The person is not in compliance with the
financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this title.
3.The person is driving a vehicle that is involved
in an accident that results in either property damage or injury to or death of
another person.
C.Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, while a peace officer has control of the vehicle the peace officer shall
cause the removal and either immobilization or impoundment of the vehicle if
the peace officer has probable cause to arrest the driver of the vehicle for a
violation of section 4244, paragraph 34 or section 281382 or 281383.
D.A peace officer shall not cause the removal and
either the immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to subsection C
of this section if all of the following apply:
1.The peace officer determines that the vehicle is
currently registered and that the driver or the vehicle is in compliance with
the financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this
title.
2.The spouse of the driver is with the driver at
the time of the arrest.
3.The peace officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that the spouse of the driver:
(a)Has a valid driver license.
(b)Is not impaired by intoxicating liquor, any
drug, a vapor releasing substance containing a toxic substance or any
combination of liquor, drugs or vapor releasing substances.
(c)Does not have any spirituous liquor in the
spouse's body if the spouse is under twentyone years of age.
4.The spouse notifies the peace officer that the
spouse will drive the vehicle from the place of arrest to the driver's home or
other place of safety.
5.The spouse drives the vehicle as prescribed by
paragraph 4 of this subsection.
E.Except as otherwise provided in this article, a
vehicle that is removed and either immobilized or impounded pursuant to
subsection A, B or C of this section shall be immobilized or impounded for
thirty days. An insurance company does not have a duty to pay any
benefits for charges or fees for immobilization or impoundment.
F.The owner of a vehicle that is removed and either
immobilized or impounded pursuant to subsection A, B or C of this section, the
spouse of the owner and each person identified on the department's record with
an interest in the vehicle immediately before the immobilization or impoundment
shall be provided with an opportunity for an immobilization or poststorage
hearing pursuant to section 283514.
G.A law enforcement agency that employs the peace
officer who removes and either immobilizes or impounds a vehicle pursuant to
this section shall enter information about the removal and either
immobilization or impoundment of the vehicle in the Arizona crime information
center database within three business days after the removal and either
immobilization or impoundment. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Repeal
Section 41-1724,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.

