



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: food producers; prohibited ordinances







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1050









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D, Lesko: Allen, Barto, Begay, Biggs, Burges, Shooter;
  Representatives Bolding, Borrelli, Cardenas, Lawrence, Townsend





AN ACT

Amending sections
3561, 3562 and 3563, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
the sale of food products by producers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 3-561, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-561.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
2.1."Food
product" includes:
(a)Every product of the soil in its natural or
manufactured state.
(b)Beef and beef products.
(c)Swine and pork products.
(d)Fowls and poultry products.
(e)Eggs and egg products.
(f)Milk and milk products.
(g)Lamb and sheep products.
1.2."Producer"
includes owners, proprietors or tenants of agricultural lands, orchards, farms
and gardens, including residential and
community gardens, whereon where food products are grown,
raised or prepared for market. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-562, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-562.Restrictions on production and sales of food products by
producers prohibited
A.The producers of food products on agricultural
lands, and farms and in gardens, including residential and community gardens,
shall never under any pretext may not be denied or
restricted the right to sell
and dispose of their products, except in the manner and to the extent provided
in this article, and subject to inspection by lawful authority when the
inspection is uniform as to the same product and without cost to the producer.
B.The right to sell and dispose of food products shall extend extends to the producer in person, members of his the producer's family, his the
producer's agents and all persons in his the
producer's service, when the products are sold or disposed of on his the producer's behalf and for his the
producer's benefit. 
C.A city,
town or county may not deny or restrict a producer of food products on
agricultural lands and farms and in gardens, including residential and
community gardens, from the right to produce food products, except in the
manner and to the extent provided in this article, and subject to inspection by
lawful authority when the inspection is uniform as to the same product and
without cost to the producer. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-563, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-563.Tax, license or fee against producers prohibited
A.No
A tax, license or fee shall may not be imposed, or levied
upon, on or demanded
or collected from a producer for a sale of a food product as defined in this article, and no a penalty
or punishment shall may not be imposed on account
of the sale, except for a violation
of laws providing for inspection.
B.A municipal city, town or county ordinance
which that seeks to impose or subject a producer to
a tax, license or fee shall be
is void, except that all
such products in common with similar products offered for sale by persons not
the producers thereof shall be
are subject to
inspection. A municipal city, town or county ordinance
providing for inspection shall
is not be valid unless it applies in the same manner
and on the same terms to
other persons offering similar products for sale. END_STATUTE

