



PREFILED DEC 23 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: driver licenses; authorized presence
  repeal







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1025









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending section
283153, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to driver licenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
28-3153, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3153.Driver license issuance; prohibitions
A.The department shall
not issue the following:
1.A driver license to a
person who is under eighteen years of age, except that the department may
issue:
(a)A restricted
instruction permit for a class D or G license to a person who is at least
fifteen years of age.
(b)An instruction
permit for a class D, G or M license as provided by this chapter to a person
who is at least fifteen years and six months of age.
(c)A class G or M
license as provided by this chapter to a person who is at least sixteen years
of age.
2.A class D, G or M
license or instruction permit to a person who is under eighteen years of age
and who has been tried in adult court and convicted of a second or subsequent
violation of criminal damage to property pursuant to section 131602,
subsection A, paragraph 1 or convicted of a felony offense in the commission of
which a motor vehicle is used, including theft of a motor vehicle pursuant to
section 131802, unlawful use of means of transportation pursuant to
section 131803 or theft of means of transportation pursuant to section
131814, or who has been adjudicated delinquent for a second or
subsequent act that would constitute criminal damage to property pursuant to
section 131602, subsection A, paragraph 1 or adjudicated delinquent for
an act that would constitute a felony offense in the commission of which a
motor vehicle is used, including theft of a motor vehicle pursuant to section
131802, unlawful use of means of transportation pursuant to section 131803
or theft of means of transportation pursuant to section 131814, if
committed by an adult.
3.A class A, B or C
license to a person who is under twentyone years of age, except that the
department may issue a class A, B or C license that is restricted to only
intrastate driving to a person who is at least eighteen years of age.
4.A license to a person
whose license or driving privilege has been suspended, during the suspension
period.
5.Except as provided in
section 283315, a license to a person whose license or driving privilege
has been revoked.
6.A class A, B or C
license to a person who has been disqualified from obtaining a commercial
driver license.
7.A license to a person
who on application notifies the department that the person is an alcoholic as
defined in section 362021 or a drug dependent person as defined in
section 362501, unless the person successfully completes the medical
screening process pursuant to section 283052 or submits a medical
examination report that includes a current evaluation from a substance abuse
counselor indicating that, in the opinion of the counselor, the condition does
not affect or impair the person's ability to safely operate a motor vehicle.
8.A license to a person
who has been adjudged to be incapacitated pursuant to section 145304 and
who at the time of application has not obtained either a court order that
allows the person to drive or a termination of incapacity as provided by law.
9.A license to a person
who is required by this chapter to take an examination unless the person
successfully passes the examination.
10.A license to a
person who is required under the motor vehicle financial responsibility laws of
this state to deposit proof of financial responsibility and who has not
deposited the proof.
11.A license to a
person if the department has good cause to believe that the operation of a
motor vehicle on the highways by the person would threaten the public safety or
welfare.
12.A license to a
person whose driver license has been ordered to be suspended pursuant to
section 25518.
13.A class A, B or C
license to a person whose license or driving privilege has been canceled until
the cause for the cancellation has been removed.
14.A class A, B or C
license or instruction permit to a person whose state of domicile is not this
state.
15.A class A, B or C
license to a person who fails to demonstrate proficiency in the English
language as determined by the department.
B.The department shall
not issue a driver license to or renew the driver license of the following
persons:
1.A person about whom
the court notifies the department that the person violated the person's written
promise to appear in court when charged with a violation of the motor vehicle
laws of this state until the department receives notification in a manner
approved by the department that the person appeared either voluntarily or
involuntarily or that the case has been adjudicated, that the case is being
appealed or that the case has otherwise been disposed of as provided by law.
2.If notified pursuant
to section 281601, a person who fails to pay a civil penalty as provided
in section 281601, except for a parking violation, until the department receives
notification in a manner approved by the department that the person paid the
civil penalty, that the case is being appealed or that the case has otherwise
been disposed of as provided by law.
C.The magistrate or the
clerk of the court shall provide the notification to the department prescribed
by subsection B of this section.
D.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department shall not issue to or renew a driver license or
nonoperating identification license for a person who does not submit proof satisfactory
to the department that the applicant's presence in the United States is
authorized under federal law.For an application for a driver
license or a nonoperating identification license, the department shall not
accept as a primary source of identification a driver license issued by a state
if the state does not require that a driver licensed in that state be lawfully
present in the United States under federal law. The director shall adopt rules
necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection. The rules shall
include procedures for:
1.Verification
that the applicant's presence in the United States is authorized under federal
law.
2.Issuance
of a temporary driver permit pursuant to section 283157 pending
verification of the applicant's status in the United States. END_STATUTE

