







REFERENCE TITLE: early ballots; election day postmark







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1080









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Farley, Hobbs; Representatives Andrade, Clark, Espinoza, Velasquez:
  Senator Contreras





AN ACT

amending sections
16-543.02, 16-547, 16-548, 16-551 and 16-558.01, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to early voting.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-543.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-543.02.Federal writein early ballots; procedure;
registration form
A.An overseas voter as defined in the uniformed and
overseas citizens absentee voting act of 1986 (P.L. 99410; 42 52 United States Code section 1973ff-6
20310), as amended by the Ronald W. Reagan national defense
authorization act for fiscal year 2005 (P.L. 108375), who is absent from
the place of residence in this state where the voter is otherwise qualified to
vote may use a federal writein early ballot in a primary, general or
special election for the offices of presidential elector and United States
senator and representative in Congress if the voter applies for an early ballot
by 7:00 p.m. on election day and does not receive that early ballot.
B.A federal writein early ballot of an
overseas voter shall not be counted if either of the following conditions is
met:
1.The application of the overseas voter for an
early ballot is received by the county recorder or other officer in charge of
elections after 7:00 p.m. on election day.
2.An early ballot from the overseas voter is
received by the county recorder or other officer in charge of elections by 7:00
p.m. on election day or is postmarked
by united states mail by the election day.
C.An overseas voter who completes a federal writein
early ballot may designate a candidate by writing in the name of the candidate
or by writing in the name of a political party, in which case the ballot shall
be counted for the candidate of that political party. In the case of the
offices of president and vicepresident, a vote for a named candidate or
in the name of the political party shall be counted as a vote for that
candidate's or party's presidential electors. Any abbreviation, misspelling or
other minor variation in the form of the name of a candidate or political party
shall be disregarded in determining the validity of the ballot if the intention
of the voter can be ascertained.
D.For an overseas voter who completes a federal
write-in early ballot transmission envelope with the federal write-in early
ballot request, the transmission envelope shall serve as a voter registration
form and the voter is registered to vote on completion and receipt of the
transmission envelope and the federal write-in early ballot if all of the
following apply:
1.The information submitted on the transmission
envelope includes the information prescribed in section 16121.01.
2.The voter is otherwise eligible to register and
vote in this state.
3.The request is received by the county recorder by
7:00 p.m. on election day.
E.For any request
received after 7:00 p.m. on election day, an otherwise valid transmission
envelope constitutes a voter registration form that is valid for any subsequent
election. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-547, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-547.Ballot affidavit; form
A.The early ballot shall be accompanied by an
envelope bearing on the front the name, official title and post office address
of the recorder or other officer in charge of elections and on the other side a
printed affidavit in substantially the following form:
I declare the following under penalty of
perjury:I am a registered voter in ___________ county Arizona, I
have not voted and will not vote in this election in any other county or state,
I understand that knowingly voting more than once in any election is a class 5
felony and I voted the enclosed ballot and signed this affidavit personally
unless noted below.
If the voter was assisted by another person in marking the
ballot, complete the following:
I declare the following under penalty of
perjury:At the registered voter's request I assisted the voter
identified in this affidavit with marking the voter's ballot, I marked the
ballot as directly instructed by the voter, I provided the assistance because
the voter was physically unable to mark the ballot solely due to illness,
injury or physical limitation and I understand that there is no power of
attorney for voting and that the voter must be able to make their selection
even if they cannot physically mark the ballot.
Name of voter assistant: _____________________________
Address of voter assistant: __________________________
B.The face of each envelope in which a ballot is
sent to a federal postcard applicant or in which a ballot is returned by such the applicant to the recorder or other officer
in charge of elections shall be in the form prescribed in accordance with the
uniformed and overseas citizens absentee voting act of 1986 (P.L. 99410;
42 52 United States Code section 1973ff20301).
Otherwise, the envelopes shall be the same as those used to send ballots to, or
receive ballots from, other early voters.
C.The county recorder or other officer in charge of
elections shall supply printed instructions to early voters that direct them to
sign the affidavit, mark the ballot and return both in the enclosed selfaddressed
envelope that complies
with section 16-545. The instructions shall include the following statement:
In order to be valid and counted, the ballot and affidavit
must be delivered to the office of the county recorder or other officer in
charge of elections, or may be deposited at any
polling place in the county no later than 7:00 p.m. on election day or is postmarked by United States mail by
the election day.
WARNING-It is a felony to offer or receive any compensation
for a ballot. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 16-548, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-548.Preparation and transmission of ballot
A.The early voter shall make and sign the affidavit
and shall then mark his ballot in such a manner that his vote cannot be seen.
The early voter shall fold the ballot, if a paper ballot, so as to conceal the
vote and deposit the voted ballot in the envelope provided for that purpose,
which shall be securely sealed and, together with the affidavit, delivered or
mailed to the county recorder or other officer in charge of elections of the
political subdivision in which the elector is registered or deposited by the
voter or the voter's agent at any polling place in the county. In order to be
counted and valid, the ballot must be received by the county recorder or other
officer in charge of elections,
or deposited at any polling
place in the county no later than 7:00 p.m. on election day or is postmarked by United States mail by the election day.
B.If the early voter is an overseas citizen, a
qualified elector absent from the United States or in the United States
service, a spouse or dependent residing with the early voter or a qualified
elector of a special district mail ballot election as provided in article 8.1
of this chapter, the early voter may subscribe to the affidavit before and
obtain the signature and military identification number or passport number, if
available, of any person who is a United States citizen eighteen years of age
or older.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 16-551, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-551.Early election board; violation; classification
A.The board of supervisors or the governing body of
the political subdivision shall appoint one or more early election boards to
serve at places to be designated by the board of supervisors or the governing
body to canvass and tally early election ballots.Members of early
election boards shall be selected in accordance with the provisions for
selecting members of regular election boards as provided in section 16531.
B.If an electronic voting system is in use for
early voting, the early election board shall consist of at least one inspector
and two judges who shall perform the processing requirements in accordance with
the rules issued by the secretary of state.The inspector and judges
shall be appointed in the same manner by party as provided in section 16531.
C.All early ballots received by the county recorder
or other officer in charge of elections before 7:00 p.m. on election day or is postmarked by United States mail by
the election day and the original affidavit of the voter shall be
delivered to the early election boards for processing as provided in the rules
of the secretary of state.The office of the county recorder or
other officer in charge of elections shall remain open until 7:00 p.m. on
election day for the purpose of receiving early ballots. In no event shall
partial or complete tallies of the early election board be released or divulged
before all precincts have reported or one hour after the closing of the polls
on election day, whichever occurs first, and any person who unlawfully releases
information regarding vote tallies or who possesses a tally sheet or summary
without authorization from the recorder or officer in charge of elections is
guilty of a class 6 felony.
D.The necessary printed blanks for poll lists,
tally lists, lists of voters, ballots, oaths and returns, together with
envelopes in which to enclose the returns, shall be furnished by the board of
supervisors or the governing body of the political subdivision to the early
election board for each election precinct at the expense of the county or the
political subdivision. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 16-558.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-558.01.Mailing of ballots
Not more than twentyseven days before the election and
not fewer than fifteen days before the election, the county recorder or other
officer in charge of elections for the special district shall send by
nonforwardable mail all official ballots with printed instructions and a return
envelope bearing a printed ballot affidavit as described in section 16547
to each qualified elector entitled to vote in the election.The
envelope in which the ballot is mailed shall be clearly marked with the
statement required by the postmaster to receive an address correction and
notification. The district governing board shall determine whether the voter
or the district governing board will pay for the postage for the return of
electors' marked ballots.An elector who votes in a special district
mail ballot election shall return the elector's marked ballot to the recorder
or other officer in charge of the election or to a designated depository site
as provided in section 16411 no
not later than 7:00 p.m.
on the day of the election or shall
return the marked ballot in an envelope that is postmarked by United States
mail not later than the day of the election. END_STATUTE

