



PREFILED DEC 07 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: institutional investor; definition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1006









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D, Begay, Farley: Shooter; Representatives Boyer, Cobb, Lawrence,
  Norgaard, Petersen, Thorpe, Townsend





AN ACT

amending section
6-971, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to commercial mortgage bankers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-971, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-971.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Affiliate" means an entity that
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with the specified entity.
2."Commercial
business purpose loan" means a loan that has a commercial business purpose
and that may be directly or indirectly secured by a mortgage, deed of trust or
any lien interest on a property that is established with the property owner's
consent.
2.3."Commercial
mortgage banker" means a person who engages in the following:
(a)Originating commercial mortgage loans.
(b)Servicing commercial mortgage loans.
(c)Either directly or indirectly making,
negotiating or offering to make or negotiate commercial mortgage loans.
3.4."Commercial
mortgage loan" means a loan that is directly or indirectly secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust or any lien interest on commercial property and
created with the consent of the owner of the commercial property.
4.5."Commercial
mortgage loan closing" means the day by which all documents relating to
the commercial mortgage loan have been executed and recorded and all monies
have been accounted for under the terms of the escrow instructions.
5.6."Commercial
property" means real estate that is located in this state and that is not
used for a one to four family residence.
6.7."Compensation"
means anything of value or any benefit including points, commissions, bonuses,
referral fees, loan origination fees and other similar fees but excluding
periodic interest resulting from the application of the note rate of interest
to the outstanding principal balance remaining unpaid from time to time.
7.8."Institutional
investor" means a person who in the regular course of business makes
commercial mortgage loans of more than
two hundred fifty thousand dollars or commercial business purpose loans that are
funded exclusively from the institutional investor's own resources.
8.9."Investor"
means a person who directly or indirectly provides monies to a commercial
mortgage banker that are, or are intended to be, used to make a loan, and any
person who purchases a loan, or any interest in a loan, from a commercial
mortgage banker or in a transaction that has been directly or indirectly
arranged or negotiated by a commercial mortgage banker.
9.10."License"
means a license issued under this article.
10.11."Licensee"
means a person who is licensed under this article.
11.12."Own
resources" means any of the following:
(a)Cash, corporate capital, warehouse credit lines
at commercial banks, savings banks or savings and loan associations or other
sources that are liability items on the person's financial statements.
(b)Correspondent contracts between the commercial
mortgage banker and an institutional investor, bank, savings bank, trust
company, savings and loan association, credit union, profit sharing or
pensiontrust, consumer lender or insurance company.
(c)The person's affiliates' cash, corporate
capital, warehouse credit lines at commercial banks or other sources that are
liability items on the affiliates' financial statements for which the
affiliates' assets are pledged.
12.13."Servicing
commercial mortgage loans" means collecting payments at a location in this
state on commercial mortgage loans, including:
(a)Principal.
(b)Interest.
(c)Trust items such as hazard insurance premiums,
taxes and various reserves on an obligation under the terms of the obligation.
(d)Operational procedures covering accounting,
bookkeeping, insurance, tax records, loan payment followup, delinquency
loan followup, loan analysis and property valuation. END_STATUTE

