



PREFILED DEC 10 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: animal abuser registration; registry







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1011









Introduced by
Senators
  Sherwood, Farley





AN ACT

amending title
13, chapter 29, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 13-2910.10;
relating to animal abuser registration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
13, chapter 29, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
13-2910.10, to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.10.Animal abuser registration; central animal abuser
registry; animal abuser registration fund; violation; classification;
definitions
A.A person who is eighteen years of age or older
and who has been convicted of a violation or attempted violation of any of the
following offenses or who has been convicted of an offense committed in another
jurisdiction that if committed in this state would be a violation or attempted
violation of any of the following offenses or who is required to register by
the convicting jurisdiction, within ten days after the conviction or within ten
days after entering and remaining in any county of this state, shall register
with the sheriff of that county:
1.Beastiality pursuant to section 131411.
2.Cruelty to animals pursuant to section
13-2910.
3.Animal fighting pursuant to section
13-2910.01.
4.Presence at animal fight pursuant to section
13-2910.02.
5.Cockfighting pursuant to section 13-2910.03.
6.Presence at cockfight pursuant to section
13-2910.04.
7.Equine tripping pursuant to section
13-2910.09.
B.Before a person is released from confinement
the state department of corrections or the county sheriff in conjunction with
the department of public safety and each county sheriff shall complete the
registration of any person who was convicted of a violation of any offense
listed under subsection a of this section. Within three days after the person's
release from confinement, the state department of corrections shall forward the
registered person's records to the department of public safety and to the
sheriff of the county in which the registered person intends to reside.
Registration pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with subsection C
of this section.
C.A person who has been convicted in another
jurisdiction and who is required to register in the convicting state for an act
that would constitute an offense specified in subsection A of this section and
who is not a resident of this state shall be required to register pursuant to
this section if the person is either:
1.Employed fulltime or parttime in
this state, with or without compensation, for more than fourteen consecutive
days or for an aggregate period of more than thirty days in a calendar year.
2.Enrolled as a fulltime or parttime
student in any school in this state for more than fourteen consecutive days or
for an aggregate period of more than thirty days in a calendar year.
D.At the time of registering, the person shall
sign or affix an electronic fingerprint to a statement giving such information
as required by the director of the department of public safety, including all
names by which the person is known and the person's place of employment. The
sheriff shall fingerprint and photograph the person and within three days
thereafter shall send copies of the statement, fingerprints and photographs to
the department of public safety. The information that is required by this
subsection shall include the physical location of the person's residence and
the person's address. If the person has a place of residence that is different
from the person's address, the person shall provide the person's address, the
physical location of the person's residence and the name of the owner of the
residence if the residence is privately owned and not offered for rent or
lease. If the person receives mail at a post office box, the person shall
provide the location and number of the post office box.If the
person does not have an address or a permanent place of residence, the person
shall provide a description and physical location of any temporary residence
and shall register as a transient not less than every ninety days with the
sheriff in whose jurisdiction the transient is physically present.
E.On the first conviction of a violation listed
in subsection A of this section, a person shall register pursuant to this
section for one year. On the person's second or subsequent conviction of a
violation of this section, the person shall renew the person's registration
with the sheriff each year for life after the person's initial registration.
F.Except as provided in subsection C or G of
this section, the clerk of the superior court in the county in which a person
has been convicted of a violation of any offense listed under subsection A of
this section shall notify the sheriff in that county of the conviction within
ten days after entry of the judgment.
G.Within ten days after entry of judgment, a
court not of record shall notify the arresting law enforcement agency of an
offender's conviction for a violation of an offense listed in subsection A of
this section.Within ten days after receiving this information, the
law enforcement agency shall determine if the offender is required to register
pursuant to this section. If the law enforcement agency determines that the
offender is required to register, the law enforcement agency shall provide the
information required by this section to the department of public safety and the
sheriff in that county.
H.The department of public safety shall maintain
a central animal abuser registry that contains the names and registration
information of every person who is required to register pursuant to this
section. The department of public safety shall make the animal abuser registry
available on its website and shall promptly answer any written, telephone and
in-person requests to search the animal abuser registry.The
registry shall be searchable by name and location.The animal
abuser's information shall remain in the registry for as long as the person is
required to register.
I.The animal abuser registration fund is
established in the department of public safety for the purpose of offsetting
the cost of the animal abuser registry.The fund consists of grants,
gifts, devises and donations from any public or private source. The department
of public safety shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated and are exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing of appropriations.
J.A person who is subject to registration
pursuant to this section and who fails to comply with the requirements of this
section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
K.For the purposes of this section:
1."Address" means the location at
which the person receives mail.
2."Residence" means the person's
dwelling place, whether permanent or temporary.
3."School" means an educational
institution of any description, public or private, wherever located in this
state. END_STATUTE

