



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: jury service; eight-year exemption







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1039









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
21-202, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to jury service.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 21-202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE21-202.Persons entitled to be excused from jury service
A.It is the policy of this state that all qualified
citizens have an obligation to serve on juries when summoned by the courts of
this state, unless excused.
B.On timely application to the court, the following
persons shall be excused temporarily from service as a juror if the judge or
jury commissioner finds that any of the following applies:
1.The prospective juror has a mental or physical
condition that causes the juror to be incapable of performing jury service.
The juror or the juror's personal representative shall provide to the court or
jury commissioner a medical statement from a physician who is licensed pursuant
to title 32, a physician assistant who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 25 or a registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title
32, chapter 15 that explains an existing mental or physical condition that
renders the person unfit for jury service. If a prospective juror does not
have a physician, a physician assistant or a registered nurse practitioner, the
prospective juror or the juror's personal representative shall provide a sworn
statement from a professional caregiver for the prospective juror that is
deemed acceptable by the court or jury commissioner and that explains the
mental or physical condition that renders the prospective juror incapable of
performing jury service. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)The statement shall be in writing and shall
contain a description and duration of any mobility restrictions, the specific
symptoms that make the prospective juror mentally or physically unfit for jury
service and their duration, the employment status of the prospective juror and
the printed name, signature, professional license number if applicable, area of
specialty and contact information of the authorizing physician, physician
assistant, registered nurse practitioner or professional caregiver.
(b)A form that complies with this paragraph shall
be made available at courthouses, the Arizona medical board website, the
Arizona regulatory board of physician assistants website, the Arizona board of
osteopathic examiners in medicine and
surgery website, the board of nursing website and other
appropriate locations that are identified by the court or jury commissioner.
(c)These documents are not public records and shall
not be disclosed to the general public.
2.Jury service by the prospective juror would
substantially and materially affect the public interest or welfare in an adverse
manner.
3.The prospective juror is not currently capable of
understanding the English language.
4.Jury service would cause undue or extreme
physical or financial hardship to the prospective juror or a person under the
prospective juror's care or supervision. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)A judge or jury commissioner of the court for
which the person was called to jury service shall determine whether jury
service would cause the prospective juror undue or extreme physical or
financial hardship.
(b)A person who requests to be excused under this
paragraph shall take all actions necessary to obtain a ruling on the request
before the date on which the person is scheduled to appear for jury duty.
(c)Undue or extreme physical or financial hardship
is limited to the following circumstances in which a person:
(i)Would be required to abandon a person under the
potential juror's care or supervision due to the impossibility of obtaining an
appropriate substitute caregiver during the period of participation in the jury
pool or on the jury.
(ii)Would incur costs that would have a substantial
adverse impact on the payment of the person's necessary daily living expenses
or on those for whom the potential juror provides regular employment or the principal
means of support.
(iii)Would suffer physical hardship that would
result in illness or disease.
(d)Undue or extreme physical or financial hardship
does not exist solely based on the fact that a prospective juror will be
required to be absent from the prospective juror's place of employment.
(e)A person who requests to be excused under this
paragraph shall provide the judge or jury commissioner with documentation that
supports the request to be excused, such as federal and state income tax returns,
payroll records, medical statements from physicians licensed pursuant to title
32, physician assistants licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 25 or
registered nurse practitioners licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, proof
of dependency or guardianship or other similar documents. The judge or jury
commissioner may excuse a person if the documentation clearly supports the
request to be excused. These documents are not public records and shall not be
disclosed to the general public.
5.The prospective juror is a peace officer who is
certified by the Arizona peace officer standards and training board and who is
employed as a peace officer by this state or any political subdivision of this
state.The employer of a peace officer shall not in any way influence
the peace officer to make or not to make an application to the court, pursuant
to this section, to be excused from jury service.
6.A judge or jury commissioner of the court for
which the person was called to jury service excuses the prospective juror for
good cause based on a showing of undue or extreme hardship under the
circumstances, including being temporarily absent from the jurisdiction or a
lack of transportation.
C.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, a prospective juror who is
at least seventy-five years of age may submit a written statement to the court
requesting that the person be excused from service. The prospective juror may
request to be excused temporarily or permanently. On receipt of the request,
the judge or jury commissioner shall excuse the prospective juror from service.
D. On timely
application to the court, a person who has served on a jury for fifteen
consecutive days or more, including jury selection days but excluding weekend
days unless the jury was sequestered is entitled to be excused temporarily from
service as a juror for eight years following the service.The clerk
of the court shall provide any juror who meets the requirements of this
subsection with a NOTARIZED certificate excusing that person from service as a
juror for eight years. the person must present the notarized certificate with
the application to the court.
D.e.A
person who is excused temporarily pursuant to this section becomes eligible for
qualification as a juror when the temporary excuse expires unless the person is
permanently excused from jury service.
E.F.A
person may be permanently excused only if the deciding judge or jury
commissioner determines that the underlying grounds for being excused are
permanent in nature or the person is permanently excused under
subsectionC of this section.

F.g.If
the judge, jury commissioner or jury manager permanently excuses the person
from jury service, the person shall be notified that the person is permanently
excused. END_STATUTE

