



PREFILED DEC 11 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; class size reduction grants







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1015









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-220;
relating to the state board of education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 2, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-220, to read:
START_STATUTE15-220.Class size reduction and teacher retention program;
grants; appropriation; annual report; program termination
A.The state
board of education shall establish a class size reduction and teacher retention
program to reduce class sizes to between fifteen and twentytwo pupils
per classroom in kindergarten programs and grades one, two and three in
participating school districts.
B.The state
board of education shall adopt rules to prescribe application and eligibility
requirements for school districts that wish to participate in the class size
reduction and teacher retention program. School districts that wish to
participate in the first year of the program shall submit applications to the
state board of education beginning in the 20172018 academic year. The
application and eligibility requirements shall require a school district to
include in its application a detailed description of the school district's
class size reduction and teacher retention plan and the school district's
proposed use of grant monies awarded pursuant to this section. The application
and eligibility requirements may require school districts to include any or all
of the following information:
1.The
number of certificated teachers who are employed by the school district and who
provide classroom instruction to pupils in kindergarten programs and grades
one, two and three.
2.The
percentage of pupils who are enrolled in the school district and who meet the
economic eligibility requirements established under the national school lunch
and child nutrition acts (42 United States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for
free or reducedprice lunches.
3.The
proposed school sites where the program will be implemented.
C.Beginning
in fiscal year 20182019, the sum of one million dollars is appropriated
from the state general fund each fiscal year to the department of education to
distribute in the form of grants to school districts that are selected to
participate in the program. A school district that participates in the program
may not receive more than one hundred thousand dollars in any fiscal year from
grants awarded pursuant to this subsection.
D.The state
board of education shall submit an annual report on or before September 1 that
summarizes the academic results of pupils in school districts that participate
in the class size reduction and teacher retention program to the governor, the
speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate and the
chairpersons of the house of representatives and senate education committees
and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of
state.The annual report shall include the following information:
1.The
number of years each participating school district has participated in the
program and a detailed accounting of monies used for this purpose.
2.A listing
of the grade levels that participated in the program.
3.A
description of the success of and teacher satisfaction with the program.
4.Mechanisms
to track the retention rate of teachers who are employed in school districts
that participate in the program.
5.A
description of changes attributable to the program, such as disciplinary
improvement, graduation rate increases, dropout decreases and academic gains.
E.The state
board of education shall include in the annual report submitted pursuant to
subsection D of this section in 2022 a comprehensive summary of the
effectiveness of the class size reduction and teacher retention program and a
recommendation to either continue or discontinue the program after 2023.
F.School
districts may not use monies received pursuant to this section to directly or
indirectly fund any capital project.
G.The state
board of education may allocate up to three percent of the monies that would
otherwise be used for grants pursuant to subsection C of this section to the
Arizona board of regents for distribution to one or more of the universities
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents for the purpose of
assisting the state board of education in developing accountability and
tracking measures for school districts that participate in the program.
H.The
program established by This section ends on January 1, 2024 pursuant to section
41-3102. END_STATUTE

