



PREFILED DEC 15 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: municipal service access cards;
  requirements







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1017









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

Amending title 9,
chapter 4, article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 9-500.38;
relating to municipal services.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 9, chapter 4, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 9-500.38, to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.38.Municipal service access cards; requirements;
prohibitions; applicability
A.A city or
town may issue a municipal service access card to an individual to provide
access to municipal services that the individual is entitled to receive from
the city or town. A city or town that issues a municipal service access card
shall:
1.Label the
municipal service access card, in at least twelvepoint boldfaced
type, "for use to access municipal services only, not an identification
card".
2.List on
the municipal service access card only the services that the individual to whom
the card is issued is legally entitled to receive.
3.Not
contain the word "identification", except to state that the municipal
service access card is not an identification card.
B.A city or
town may issue a municipal service access card that is also an identification
card to an individual to access municipal services that the individual is
entitled to receive from the city or town. A city or town that issues a
municipal service access card that is also an identification card shall:
1.Adopt
procedures that are at least as stringent as the procedures adopted by the motor
vehicle division of the department of transportation for issuing a nonoperating
identification license.
2.Require
the individual to submit the same information necessary to obtain a
nonoperating identification license pursuant to section 283165, subsection
F.
3.Accept
only the documents approved by the motor vehicle division of the department of
transportation as acceptable proof of identity.
C.A
municipal service access card issued pursuant to this section may not Have the
same color scheme or design format as a driver license issued pursuant to
section 283153 or a nonoperating identification license issued pursuant
to section 283165.
D.This
section applies to municipal service access cards that are issued by a third
party on behalf of a city or town.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Applicability; legislative findings
A.Section 9500.38, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as added by this act, applies to all municipal service access cards issued,
reissued or renewed on or after the effective date of this act. A municipal
service access card that is issued before the effective date of this act is
valid for one year after the effective date of this act.
B.The legislature finds that the reliability and
standards for issuance of identification cards issued in this state is a matter
of statewide concern. The reliability of a validly issued identification card
is essential to prevent identity theft and promote commerce.

