



PREFILED DEC 29 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: voting centers; on-campus voting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1031









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending section
16-411, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to conduct of elections.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-411, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-411.Designation of election precincts and polling places;
voting centers; electioneering; wait times
A.Except as
prescribed by subsection J of this section, The board of
supervisors of each county, on or before December 1 of each year preceding the
year of a general election, by an order, shall establish a convenient number of
election precincts in the county and define the boundaries of the
precincts.The election precinct boundaries shall be so established
as included within election districts prescribed by law for elected officers of
the state and its political subdivisions,
including community college district precincts, except those elected officers
provided for in titles 30 and 48.
B.Not less than twenty days before a general or
primary election, and at least ten days before a special election, the board
shall designate one polling place within each precinct where the election shall
be held, except that:
1.On a specific finding of the board, included in
the order or resolution designating polling places pursuant to this subsection,
that no suitable polling place is available within a precinct, a polling place
for that precinct may be designated within an adjacent precinct.
2.Adjacent precincts may be combined if boundaries
so established are included in election districts prescribed by law for state
elected officials and political subdivisions, including community college districts but
not including elected officials prescribed by titles 30 and 48. The officer in
charge of elections may also split a precinct for administrative purposes. The
polling places shall be listed in separate sections of the order or resolution.
3.On a specific finding of the board that the
number of persons who are listed as permanent early voters pursuant to section
16544 is likely to substantially reduce the number of voters appearing
at one or more specific polling places at that election, adjacent precincts may
be consolidated by combining polling places and precinct boards for that
election. The board of supervisors shall ensure that a reasonable and adequate
number of polling places will be designated for that election. Any
consolidated polling places shall be listed in separate sections of the order
or resolution of the board.
4.On a specific resolution of the board, the board
may authorize the use of voting centers in place of or in addition to
specifically designated polling places.A voting center shall allow
any voter in that county to receive the appropriate ballot for that voter on
election day and lawfully cast the ballot.Voting centers may be
established in coordination and consultation with the county recorder, at other
county offices or at other locations in the county deemed appropriate.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection b of this section, in consultation with the Arizona board of
regents, the recognized student government organizations of the universities
under the Arizona board of regents' jurisdiction and each community college
district governing board, the board of supervisors of each county shall
designate certain on-campus locations as voting centers for each campus of each
university and each community college during the early voting period and on
election day. The campus voting centers shall allow any voter in the county to
receive the appropriate ballot for that voter during the early voting period
and on election day and to lawfully cast the ballot. The voting centers shall
be designated as follows:
1.For
university or community college campuses with ten thousand or fewer enrolled
students, the board of supervisors shall designate at least one voting center.
2.For
university or community college campuses with more than ten thousand but fewer
than twenty thousand enrolled students, the board of supervisors shall
designate at least two voting centers.
3.For
university or community college campuses with twenty thousand or more but fewer
than forty thousand enrolled students, the board of supervisors shall designate
at least three voting centers.
4.For
university or community college campuses with forty thousand or more but fewer
than fifty thousand enrolled students, the board of supervisors shall designate
at least four voting centers.
5.For
university or community college campuses with fifty thousand or more but fewer
than sixty thousand enrolled students, the board of supervisors shall designate
at least five voting centers.
6.For
university or community college campuses with sixty thousand or more enrolled
students, the board of supervisors shall designate at least six voting centers.
C.D.If the board
fails to designate the place for holding the election, or if it cannot be held
at or about the place designated, the justice of the peace in the precinct, two
days before the election, by an order, copies of which the justice of the peace
shall immediately post in three public places in the precinct, shall designate
the place within the precinct for holding the election.If there is
no justice of the peace in the precinct, or if the justice of the peace fails
to do so, the election board of the precinct shall designate and give notice of
the place within the precinct of holding the election.For any
election in which there are no candidates for elected office appearing on the
ballot, the board may consolidate polling places and precinct boards and may
consolidate the tabulation of results for that election if all of the following
apply:
1.All affected voters are notified by mail of the
change at least thirtythree days before the election.
2.Notice of the change in polling places includes
notice of the new voting location, notice of the hours for voting on election
day and notice of the telephone number to call for voter assistance.
3.All affected voters receive information on early
voting that includes the application used to request an early voting ballot.
D.E.The board is not
required to designate a polling place for special district mail ballot
elections held pursuant to article 8.1 of this chapter, but the board may designate
one or more sites for voters to deposit marked ballots until 7:00 p.m. on the
day of the election.
E.F.Except as
provided in subsection F
G of this section, a
public school shall provide sufficient space for use as a polling place for any
city, county or state election when requested by the officer in charge of
elections.
F.G.The principal of
the school may deny a request to provide space for use as a polling place for
any city, county or state election if, within two weeks after a request has
been made, the principal provides a written statement indicating a reason the
election cannot be held in the school, including any of the following:
1.Space is not available at the school.
2.The safety or welfare of the children would be
jeopardized.
G.H.The board shall
make available to the public as a public record a list of the polling places
for all precincts in which the election is to be held including identification
of polling place changes that were submitted to the United States department of
justice for approval.
H.I.Except in the
case of an emergency, any facility that is used as a polling place on election
day or that is used as an early voting site during the period of early voting
shall allow persons to electioneer and engage in other political activity
outside of the seventyfive foot limit prescribed by section 16515
in public areas and parking lots used by voters. This subsection shall not be
construed to permit the temporary or permanent construction of structures in
public areas and parking lots or the blocking or other impairment of access to
parking spaces for voters.The county recorder or other officer in
charge of elections shall post on its website at least two weeks before
election day a list of those polling places in which emergency conditions
prevent electioneering and shall specify the reason the emergency designation
was granted and the number of attempts that were made to find a polling place
before granting an emergency designation. If the polling place is not on the
website list of polling places with emergency designations, electioneering and
other political activity shall be permitted outside of the seventyfive
foot limit.If an emergency arises after the county recorder or
other officer in charge of elections' initial website posting, the county
recorder or other officer in charge of elections shall update the website as
soon as is practicable to include any new polling places, shall highlight the
polling place location on the website and shall specify the reason the
emergency designation was granted and the number of attempts that were made to
find a polling place before granting an emergency designation.
I.J.For the purposes
of this section, a county recorder or other officer in charge of elections shall
designate a polling place as an emergency polling place and thus prohibit
persons from electioneering and engaging in other political activity outside of
the seventy-five foot limit prescribed by section 16515 but inside the
property of the facility that is hosting the polling place if any of the
following occurs:
1.An act of god renders a previously set polling
place as unusable.
2.A county recorder or other officer in charge of
elections has exhausted all options and there are no suitable facilities in a
precinct that are willing to be a polling place unless a facility can be given
an emergency designation.
J.K.The secretary of
state shall provide through the instructions and procedures manual adopted
pursuant to section 16452 the maximum allowable wait time for any
election that is subject to section 16204 and provide for a method to
reduce voter wait time at the polls in the primary and general
elections.The method shall consider at least all of the following
for primary and general elections in each precinct:
1.The number of ballots voted in the prior primary
and general elections.
2.The number of registered voters who voted early
in the prior primary and general elections.
3.The number of registered voters and the number of
registered voters who cast an early ballot for the current primary or general
election.
4.The number of election board members and clerks
and the number of rosters that will reduce voter wait time at the polls.
K.The board
of supervisors of a county shall not change precinct lines during the period
after July 31, 2008 and before January 1, 2011. The board of supervisors may
subdivide an election precinct for administrative purposes or may provide for
more than one polling place within the boundaries of the election precincts
established for use in voting in elections held after July 31, 2008 and before
January 1, 2011. In providing for multiple polling places within a precinct,
the board of supervisors shall consider the particular population characteristics
of each precinct in order to provide the voters the most reasonable access to
the polls possible. END_STATUTE

