







REFERENCE TITLE: foreign nonprofit corporations; foreign
  LLCs.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1068









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Farley, Hobbs; Representatives Andrade, Cardenas, Clark, Velasquez:
  Senator Contreras; Representative Espinoza





AN ACT

amending sections
10-11501 and 10-11502, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 29, chapter 4,
article 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 29-800; amending section
29-809, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to business entities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
10-11501, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-11501.Authority to conduct affairs required
A.A foreign corporation
shall not conduct affairs in this state until it is granted authority to
transact business in this state as provided in this chapter from the
commission. For the purposes
of this subsection, "conduct affairs" includes the expenditure of
monies for the purpose of influencing the outcome of an election in this state.
B.The following
activities, among others, do not constitute conducting affairs within the
meaning of subsection A of
this section:
1.Maintaining,
defending or settling any proceeding.
2.Holding meetings of
the board of directors or members or carrying on other activities concerning
internal corporate affairs.
3.Maintaining bank
accounts.
4.Maintaining offices
or agencies for the transfer, exchange and registration of memberships or
securities or maintaining trustees or depositaries with respect to those
securities.
5.Selling through
independent contractors.
6.Soliciting or
obtaining orders, whether by mail or through employees or agents or otherwise,
if the orders require acceptance outside this state before they become
contracts.
7.Creating or acquiring
indebtedness, mortgages and security interests in real or personal property.
8.Securing or
collecting debts or enforcing mortgages and security interests in property
securing the same.
9.Owning, without more,
real or personal property.
10.Conducting an
isolated transaction that is completed within thirty days and that is not one
in the course of repeated transactions of a like nature.
11.Conducting
affairs in interstate commerce.
12.Being a limited
partner of a limited partnership or a member of a limited liability company.
C.The list of
activities in subsection B of
this section is not exhaustive. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
10-11502, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-11502.Consequences of conducting affairs without authority;
definition
A.A foreign corporation
conducting affairs in this state without a grant of authority shall not be
permitted to maintain a proceeding in any court in this state or make an expenditure of monies
for the purpose of influencing the outcome of an election in this state
until it is authorized to transact business.
B.The successor to a
foreign corporation that transacted business in this state without a grant of
authority and the assignee of a cause of action arising out of that business
may not maintain a proceeding on that cause of action in any court in this
state until the foreign corporation or its successor obtains authority to
transact business.
C.A court may stay a
proceeding commenced by a foreign corporation, its successor or its assignee
until it determines whether the foreign corporation, its successor or its
assignee requires authority to transact business in this state.If
it so determines, the court may further stay the proceeding until the foreign
corporation or its successor obtains authority to transact business in this
state.
D.A foreign corporation
that conducts affairs in this state without authority is liable to this state,
for the years or portions of years during which it transacted business in this
state without authority, in an amount equal to all fees that would have been
imposed by chapters 24 through 40 of this title on the corporation if it had
duly applied for and received authority to conduct business in this state as
required by chapters 24 through 40 of this title and thereafter filed all
reports required by chapters 24 through 40 of this title.In
addition to all penalties imposed by chapters 24 through 40 of this title for
failure to pay the fees, the corporation shall pay a penalty of up to one
thousand dollars to this state for violating this section.The
attorney general may bring proceedings to recover all amounts due this state
under this section.
E.Notwithstanding
subsections A and B of this section, the failure of a foreign corporation to
obtain authority to transact business in this state does not impair the
validity of its corporate acts or prevent it from defending any proceedings in
this state.
F.The attorney general
or any other person may bring and maintain an action to enjoin any foreign
corporation from transacting business in this state without
authority.On a foreign corporation obtaining authority, the action
shall be dismissed, but the plaintiff shall recover its costs and reasonable
attorney fees.A determination by a court of competent jurisdiction
in this state that a party to the action is a foreign corporation that was
required but failed to qualify as a foreign corporation under chapters 24
through 40 of this title is a prima
facie evidence against the foreign corporation in any other action brought by
or against it by any other person of the requirement to and failure to qualify.
G.For the purposes of this section, "conducting
affairs" and "transacting business" include the expenditure of
monies for the purpose of influencing the outcome of an election in this state.
END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 29, chapter 4, article 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding section 29-800, to read:
START_STATUTE29-800.Definition of transacting business
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires, "transacting business" includes the expenditure
of monies for the purpose of influencing the outcome of an election in this
state. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
29-809, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE29-809.Transaction of business without registration
A.A foreign limited
liability company transacting business in this state shall not maintain an
action, suit or proceeding in a court of this state or make an expenditure of monies to influence the
outcome of an election in this state until it has obtained a certificate
of registration to transact business.
B.The failure of a
foreign limited liability company to obtain a certificate of registration to
transact business does not impair the validity of any contract or act of the
foreign limited liability company or prevent the foreign limited liability
company from defending any action, suit or proceeding in a court of this state.
C.A member of a foreign
limited liability company is not liable for any debt, obligation or liability
of the limited liability company by reason of having transacted business in
this state without a certificate of registration.
D.A foreign limited
liability company that transacts business in this state without a certificate
of registration appoints the commission as its agent for service of process
with respect to causes of action arising out of the transaction of business in
this state.
E.Without excluding
other activities that may not constitute transacting business in this state, a
foreign limited liability company is not considered to be transacting business
in this state for the purposes of this chapter solely because it is carrying on
one or more of the following activities in this state:
1.Maintaining,
defending or effecting a settlement of an action or suit or an administrative
or arbitrative proceeding or effecting the settlement of a claim or dispute.
2.Holding meetings of
its members or carrying on any other activities concerning its internal
affairs.
3.Maintaining a bank
account.
4.Maintaining an office
or agency for the transfer, exchange and registration of its securities or
appointing and maintaining trustees or depositories with relation to its
securities.
5.Effecting sales
through an independent contractor.
6.Soliciting or
receiving orders outside this state in pursuance of letters, circulars,
catalogs or other forms of advertising or solicitation and accepting the orders
outside this state and filling them with goods shipped into this state.
7.Creating as borrower
or lender or acquiring indebtedness, mortgages or other security interests in
real or personal property.
8.Securing or
collecting debts or enforcing any right in property securing the debts.
9.Transacting business
in interstate commerce.
10.Conducting an
isolated transaction completed within a period of thirty days and not in the
course of a number of repeated transactions of a similar nature.
F.This section does
not apply in determining the context or activities that may subject a foreign
limited liability company to service of process, suit, taxation or regulation
under any other statute of this state. END_STATUTE

