







REFERENCE TITLE: student loans; teachers; appropriation







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1113









Introduced by
Senators
  Allen S, Begay, Farley, Miranda, Yee: Donahue, Hobbs, Meza; Representative
  Ackerley





AN ACT

amending section
151782, Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to
Mathematics, science, special education and elementary education teacher
student loans.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1782, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1782.Mathematics, science, special education and elementary
education teacher student loans; requirements; report
A.The commission may grant loans from the
mathematics, science and special education teacher student loan fund
established by section 151784 to defray the costs of tuition, instructional materials
and mandatory fees of the education of students who are pursuing a teaching
degree at a qualifying postsecondary institution and who are deemed qualified
by the commission to receive these loans. Loans shall be granted on such terms
and conditions as may be imposed by the commission and shall be distributed on
a first come, first served basis.
B.The commission shall grant loans to qualified
applicants who agree to provide instruction in the area of mathematics, science
or special education in a public school in this state or in elementary
education in a public school that is located on an Indian reservation or in a geographic rural or urban area in this state that is
experiencing a shortage of teachers, as determined by the state board of
education.The board shall allocate no more than twentyfive per cent percent of the annual amount appropriated for
loans to applicants who agree to provide instruction in elementary education.
C.The loans granted by the commission shall be used
to cover the costs of tuition and mandatory fees for each loan recipient and
may also defray the cost of instructional materials, but shall not exceed seven
thousand dollars each year, excluding all grants, scholarships and tuition
benefits such as military, tribal and employee grants, scholarships and
benefits.
D.The commission shall adopt policies for screening
qualified applicants based on ability and financial need, including requiring
all applicants to complete a free application for student federal aid.
E.The commission shall grant loans on the terms and
conditions the commission imposes.The commission shall establish
procedures for the timely repayment of loans plus interest at a rate determined
by the commission. The commission is responsible for the collection of loan
repayments.
F.The commission may partner with qualifying
postsecondary institutions to administer these loans. The commission shall
provide initial public notice of the availability of the loans and collect the
application forms directly from each qualified applicant.The
commission shall forward a request for verification of attendance, satisfactory
academic progress, financial need and enrollment in a qualified program to the
institution.
G.On or before December 1 of each year, the
commission shall submit an approved report to the governor, the speaker of the
house of representatives, the president of the senate and the joint legislative
budget committee. The commission shall provide a copy of this report to the
secretary of state. The report shall include the number of applicants, the
number of loan recipients, the qualifying postsecondary institution each loan
recipient attends, the name of the school at which each loan recipient is
employed, the number of good cause repayment exceptions granted by the commission,
the reason for each good cause exception granted and teacher retention
data.The commission shall collect and maintain data on the
retention of mathematics, science and special education teachers who received
loans pursuant to this article. The commission shall collect this data for at
least five years after each loan recipient completes the recipient's service
commitment. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Appropriation; mathematics, science and special education
teacher student loan fund 
The sum of $250,000 is appropriated from the state general fund
in fiscal year 2016-2017 to mathematics, science and special education teacher
student loan fund established by section 15-1784, Arizona Revised Statutes.

