







REFERENCE TITLE: behavior analysis; definition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1121









Introduced by
Senators
  Bradley: Begay





AN ACT

Amending section
322091, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to behavior analysts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-2091, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2091.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Active license" means a current
license issued by the board to a person who
is licensed pursuant to this article.
2."Adequate records" means records that
contain, at a minimum, sufficient information to identify the client, the dates
of service, the fee for service, the payments for service and the type of
service given and copies of any reports that may have been made.
3."Behavior analysis" means the design,
implementation and evaluation of systematic environmental modifications by a
behavior analyst to produce socially significant improvements in human behavior
based on the principles of behavior identified through the experimental
analysis of behavior. Behavior analysis
does not include cognitive therapies or psychological testing, neuropsychology,
psychotherapy, sex therapy, psychoanalysis, hypnotherapy and long-term
counseling as treatment modalities.
4."Behavior analysis services" means the
use of behavior analysis to assist a person to learn new behavior, increase
existing behavior, reduce existing behavior and emit behavior under precise
environmental conditions. Behavior analysis includes services include behavioral programming and behavioral
programs.
5."Behavior analyst" means a person who
is licensed pursuant to this article to practice behavior analysis.
6."Client" means:
(a)A person or entity that receives behavior
analysis services.
(b)A corporate entity, a governmental entity or any
other organization that has a professional contract to provide services or
benefits primarily to an organization rather than to an individual.
(c)An individual's legal guardian for decision making decision-making purposes, except that the
individual is the client for issues that directly affect the individual's
physical or emotional safety and issues that the legal guardian agrees to
specifically reserve to the individual.
7."Exploit" means an action by a behavior
analyst who takes undue advantage of the professional association with a
client, student or supervisee for the advantage or profit of the behavior
analyst.
8."Health care institution" means a
facility that is licensed pursuant to title 36, chapter 4, article 1.
9."Incompetent as a behavior analyst" means
that a person who is licensed pursuant to this article 4 of this chapter lacks the knowledge or skills
of a behavior analyst to a degree that is likely to endanger the health of a
client.
10."Letter of
concern" means an advisory letter to notify a licensee that while there is
insufficient evidence to support disciplinary action the board believes the
licensee should modify or eliminate certain practices and that continuation of
the activities that led to the information being submitted to the board may
result in action against the license.
11."Supervisee" means a person who acts
under the extended authority of a behavior analyst to provide behavioral
services and includes a person who is in training to provide these services.
12."Unprofessional conduct" includes the
following activities, whether occurring in this state or elsewhere:
(a)Obtaining a fee by fraud or misrepresentation.
(b)Betraying professional confidences.
(c)Making or using statements of a character
tending to deceive or mislead.
(d)Aiding or abetting a person who is not licensed
pursuant to this article in representing that person as a behavior analyst.
(e)Gross negligence in the practice of a behavior
analyst.
(f)Sexual intimacies or sexual intercourse with a
current client or a supervisee or with a former client within two years after
the cessation or termination of treatment. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "sexual intercourse" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 13-1401.
(g)Engaging or offering to engage as a behavior
analyst in activities that are not congruent with the behavior analyst's
professional education, training and experience.
(h)Failing or refusing to maintain and retain
adequate business, financial or professional records pertaining to the behavior
analysis services provided to a client.
(i)Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. In either case,
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction or a plea of no contest is conclusive
evidence of the commission.
(j)Making a fraudulent or untrue statement to the
board or its investigators, staff or consultants.
(k)Violating any federal or state law that relates
to the practice of behavior analysis or to obtain a license to practice
behavior analysis.
(l)Practicing behavior analysis while impaired or
incapacitated to the extent and in a manner that jeopardizes the welfare of a
client or renders the services provided ineffective.
(m)Using fraud, misrepresentation or deception to
obtain or attempt to obtain a behavior analysis license or to pass or attempt
to pass a behavior analysis licensing examination or in assisting another
person to do so.
(n)Unprofessional conduct in another jurisdiction
that resulted in censure, probation or a civil penalty or in the denial,
suspension, restriction or revocation of a certificate or license to practice
as a behavior analyst.
(o)Providing services that are unnecessary or
unsafe or otherwise engaging in activities as a behavior analyst that are
unprofessional by current standards of practice.
(p)Falsely or fraudulently claiming to have
performed a professional service, charging for a service or representing a
service as the licensee's own if the licensee has not rendered the service or
assumed supervisory responsibility for the service.
(q)Representing activities or services as being
performed under the licensee's supervision if the behavior analyst has not
assumed responsibility for them and has not exercised control, oversight and
review.
(r)Failing to obtain a client's informed and
written consent to release personal or otherwise confidential information to
another party unless the release is otherwise authorized by law.
(s)Failing to make client records in the behavior
analyst's possession promptly available to another behavior analyst on receipt
of proper authorization to do so from the client, a minor client's parent, the
client's legal guardian or the client's authorized representative or failing to
comply with title 12, chapter 13, article 7.1.
(t)Failing to take reasonable steps to inform or
protect a client's intended victim and inform the proper law enforcement
officials if the behavior analyst becomes aware during the course of providing
or supervising behavior analysis services that a client intends or plans to
inflict serious bodily harm on another person.
(u)Failing to take reasonable steps to protect a
client if the behavior analyst becomes aware during the course of providing or
supervising behavior analysis services that a client intends or plans to
inflict serious bodily harm on self.
(v)Abandoning or neglecting a client in need of
immediate care without making suitable arrangements for continuation of the
care.
(w)Engaging in direct or indirect personal solicitation
of clients through the use of coercion, duress, undue influence, compulsion or
intimidation practices.
(x)Engaging in false, deceptive or misleading
advertising.
(y)Exploiting a client, student or supervisee.
(z)Failing to report information to the board
regarding a possible act of unprofessional conduct committed by another
behavior analyst who is licensed pursuant to this article unless this reporting
violates the behavior analyst's confidential relationship with a client
pursuant to this article. A behavior analyst who reports or provides
information to the board in good faith is not subject to an action for civil
damages.
(aa)Violating a formal board order, consent
agreement, term of probation or stipulated agreement issued under this article.
(bb)Failing to furnish information in a timely
manner to the board or its investigators or representatives if requested or
subpoenaed by the board as prescribed by this article.
(cc)Failing to make available to a client or to the
client's designated representative, on written request, a copy of the client's
record, excluding raw test data, psychometric testing materials and other
information as provided by law.
(dd)Violating an ethical standard adopted by the
board.
(ee)Representing oneself as a psychologist or
permitting others to do so if the behavior analyst is not also licensed as a
psychologist pursuant to this chapter. END_STATUTE

