







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; compulsory attendance age;
  increase







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1134









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Dalessandro, Hobbs, Miranda, Quezada: Allen S, Shooter





AN ACT

amending sections
15702, 15802, 15803 and 15805, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to school attendance.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-702, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-702.High school equivalency diploma; fees; rules
A.Any person who is sixteen eighteen
years of age or older and who passes an equivalency test adopted
by the state board of education shall be awarded an Arizona high school
equivalency diploma by the state board of education and the state
superintendent of public instruction. The state board of education may
establish eligibility requirements for persons wishing to take an equivalency
test adopted by the state board of education, except that the minimum age
required to take the test may not be older than sixteen eighteen
nor shall the board require the completion of any high school
credits.
B.A person who meets the minimum course of study
and competency requirements prescribed by the state board of education for
graduation from high school through a combination of high school credits and
community college and university credits, which are converted to high school
credits in the same manner as provided in section 15701.01, subsection F
by the governing board or the state board of education, shall be awarded an
Arizona high school equivalency diploma.
C.The state board of education may establish and
collect fees for the issuance and reissuance of the following:
1.A high school equivalency diploma.
2.A high school equivalency transcript.
D.The state board of education shall adopt rules
for fee waivers for the high school equivalency diploma and high school
equivalency transcripts. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-802, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-802.School instruction; exceptions; violations;
classification; definitions
A.Every child between the ages of who
is at least six and sixteen
under eighteen years of age shall attend a school
and shall be provided instruction in at least the subjects of reading, grammar,
mathematics, social studies and science. The person who has custody of the
child shall choose a public, private or charter school or a homeschool as defined in this section to
provide instruction or shall sign a contract to participate in an Arizona
empowerment scholarship account pursuant to section 152402.
B.The parent or person who has custody shall do the
following:
1.If the child will attend a public, private or
charter school, enroll the child in and ensure that the child attends a the public, private or charter school for the
full time school is in session. In accordance with guidelines adopted by the
department of education, school districts and charter schools shall require and
maintain verifiable documentation of residency in this state for pupils who
enroll in the school district or charter school. If a child attends a school
that is operated on a yearround basis, the child shall regularly attend
during school sessions that total not
less than at least
one hundred eighty school days or two hundred school days, as applicable, or
the equivalent as approved by the superintendent of public instruction.
2.If the child will attend a private school or
homeschool, file an affidavit of intent with the county school superintendent
stating that the child is attending a regularly organized private school or is
being provided with instruction in a homeschool. The affidavit of intent shall
include:
(a)The child's name.
(b)The child's date of birth.
(c)The current address of the school the child is
attending.
(d)The names, telephone numbers and addresses of
the persons who currently have custody of the child.
3.If the child will attend homeschool, the child
has not reached eight years of age by September 1 of the school year and the
person who has custody of the child does not desire to begin home instruction
until the child has reached eight years of age, file an affidavit of intent
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection stating that the person who has
custody of the child does not desire to begin homeschool instruction.
C.An affidavit of intent shall be filed within
thirty days from the time the child begins to attend a private school or
homeschool and is not required thereafter unless the private school or the
homeschool instruction is terminated and then resumed. The person who has
custody of the child shall notify the county school superintendent within
thirty days of the termination that the child is no longer being instructed at
a private school or a homeschool. If the private school or homeschool instruction
is resumed, the person who has custody of the child shall file another
affidavit of intent with the county school superintendent within thirty days.
D.A person is excused from the duties prescribed by
subsection A or B of this section if any of the following is shown to the
satisfaction of the school principal or the school principal's designee:
1.The child is in such physical or mental condition
that instruction is inexpedient or impracticable.
2.The child has completed the high school course of
study necessary for completion of tenth
grade ten as
prescribed by the state board of education.
3.The child has presented reasons for nonattendance
at a public school that are satisfactory to the school principal or the school
principal's designee. For the purposes of this paragraph, the principal's
designee may be the school district governing board.
4.The child is over fourteen at least sixteen years of age and is employed,
with the consent of the person who has custody of the child, at some lawful
wage earning occupation.
5.The child is enrolled in a work training, career
education, career and technical education, vocational education or manual
training program that meets the educational standards established and approved
by the department of education.
6.The child was either:
(a)Suspended and not directed to participate in an
alternative education program.
(b)Expelled from a public school as provided in
article 3 of this chapter.
7.The child is enrolled in an education program
provided by a state educational or other institution.
E.Unless otherwise exempted in this section or
section 15803, a parent of a child between who is at
least six and sixteen
under eighteen years of
age or a person who has custody of a child, who does not provide instruction in
a homeschool and who fails to enroll or fails to ensure that the child attends
a public, private or charter school pursuant to this section or fails to sign a
contract to participate in an empowerment scholarship account pursuant to section
152402 is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor. A parent who fails to comply
with the duty to file an affidavit of intent to provide instruction in a
homeschool is guilty of a petty offense.
F.If a child will be educated pursuant to an
empowerment scholarship account pursuant to section 152402, the
department of education shall provide a list of students participating in
empowerment scholarship accounts to the school superintendent of the county
where the pupil resides.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Educated pursuant to an empowerment
scholarship account" means a child whose parent has signed a contract
pursuant to section 152402 to educate the child outside of any school
district or charter school and in which the parent may but is not required to
enroll the child in a private school or to educate the child through any of the
methods specified in section 152402.
2."Homeschool" means a nonpublic school
conducted primarily by the parent, guardian or other person who has custody of
the child or nonpublic instruction provided in the child's home.
3."Private school" means a nonpublic
institution, other than the child's home, where academic instruction is
provided for at least the same number of days and hours each year as a public
school. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-803.School attendance; exemptions; definitions
A.It is unlawful for
any child who is between at least six and sixteen under
eighteen years of age to fail to attend school during the hours
school is in session, unless either:
1.The child is excused pursuant to section 15802,
subsection D or section 15901, subsection A, paragraph 5, subdivision
(c).
2.The child is accompanied by a parent or a person
authorized by a parent.
3.The child is provided with instruction in a
homeschool.
B.A child who is habitually truant or who has
excessive absences may be adjudicated an incorrigible child as defined in
section 8201. Absences may be considered excessive when the number of
absent days exceeds ten per cent
percent of the number of
required attendance days prescribed in section 15802, subsection B,
paragraph 1.
C.For the purposes of this section:
1."Habitually truant" means a truant
child who is truant for at least five school days within a school year.
2."Truant" means an unexcused absence for
at least one class period during the day.
3."Truant child" means a child who is between at least six and sixteen under
eighteen years of age and who is not in attendance at a public or
private school during the hours that school is in session, unless excused as
provided by this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 15-805, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-805.Attendance officer; powers and duties; citations
A.The attendance officer may enforce the law
relating to:
1.School attendance of children between the ages of who are at least six and sixteen under
eighteen years of age.
2.The
provisions of Section 15802, subsection E, and section 15803.
3.Employment of children between the ages of who are at least six and sixteen under
eighteen years of age.
B.The attendance officer may:
1.Issue a citation to an adult or child who is
alleged to be in violation of laws specified in subsection A of this section to
appear before a court of competent jurisdiction and shall advise the person to
whom the citation is issued that failure to appear at the time and place
specified in the citation may result in the issuance of a warrant for the
person's arrest.A citation that is issued to a child who is under eighteen years of
age shall require the child's parent or person having custody to appear with
the child at the time and place specified in the citation.The
attendance officer shall notify the child's parent or person having custody
that the citation was issued and that the parent or person having custody is
required to appear in court with the child and shall give proof of the notice
to the court.
2.Issue a citation on an Arizona traffic ticket and
complaint form for any violation of laws specified in subsection A of this
section.
3.Report a violation of a law specified in
subsection A of this section to the local law enforcement agency and request an
investigation of the violation.The law enforcement agency shall, when sufficient cause
exists, shall refer the
matter for prosecution.
4.Enter all places where children may be employed
to investigate and enforce the law. END_STATUTE

