







REFERENCE TITLE: service animals;
  certification; registration; identification







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1166









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Miranda: Dalessandro, Hobbs, Kavanagh; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

Amending section
111024, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 11, chapter 7, article
6.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 111024.01; relating to
service animals.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-1024, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1024.Service animals; rights of individuals with disabilities;
violation; classification; definitions
A.Any person or entity that operates a public place
shall not discriminate against individuals with disabilities who use service
animals if the work or tasks performed by the service animal are directly
related to the individual's disability. Work or tasks include assisting
individuals who are blind or have low vision with navigation and other tasks,
alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people
or sounds, providing nonviolent protection or rescue work, pulling a
wheelchair, assisting an individual during a seizure, alerting individuals to
the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as medicine or the telephone,
providing physical support and assistance with balance and stability to
individuals with mobility disabilities and helping individuals with psychiatric
and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive or
destructive behaviors.The crime deterrent effects of an animal's
presence and the provision of emotional support, wellbeing, comfort or
companionship do not constitute work or tasks.
B.It is not discriminatory to exclude a service
animal from a public place if one or more of the following apply:
1.The animal poses a direct threat to the health or
safety of others.
2.The animal fundamentally alters the nature of the
public place or the goods, services or activities provided.
3.The animal poses an undue burden.
4.The
animal is out of control and the animal's handler does not take effective action
to control the animal.
5.The
animal is not housebroken.
C.Public places may maintain a general no pets
policy if it is not used to exclude service animals and if it does not grant
rights to any person to bring the person's pet into a public place that
otherwise does not permit pets.
D.A service
animal must be under the control of the service animal's handler and must have
a harness, leash or other tether, unless either the handler is unable because
of a disability to use a harness, leash or other tether or the use of the
harness, leash or other tether would interfere with the service animal's safe,
effective performance of work or tasks, in which case the service animal must
be otherwise under the handler's control by voice control, signals or other
effective means.
D.E.A
service animal animal's handler is liable for
any damage done to a public place by the service animal or service animal in
training.
E.F.Any
trainer or individual with a disability may take an animal being trained as a
service animal to a public place for purposes of training it to the same extent
as provided in subsections A, B and C of this section.
F.G.A zoo
or wild animal park may prohibit a service animal, including a dog guide or
service dog, from any area of the zoo or wild animal park where the service
animal may come into direct contact with the animals contained in the zoo or
wild animal park.Service animals shall not be excluded from public
walkways or sidewalks or from any area that allows for physical barriers
between the service animals, dog guides or service dogs and the animals in the
zoo or wild animal park. Any zoo or wild animal park that prohibits dog guides
and service dogs shall provide without cost adequate facilities for the
temporary confinement of dog guides and service dogs. The facilities shall be
adequate to accommodate the anticipated attendance of legally blind, deaf persons or persons with physical disabilities,
shall be in an area not accessible to the general public, shall provide water
for the dog guides and service dogs and shall otherwise be safe, clean and
comfortable. The zoo or wild animal park on request by a legally blind person
who is required to leave that person's dog guide or service dog pursuant to
this subsection shall provide a sighted escort if the legally blind person is
unaccompanied by a sighted person.
G.H.The
driver of a vehicle approaching a legally blind pedestrian who is carrying a
cane that is predominately white or metallic in color, who is using a service animal
or who is assisted by a sighted person shall yield the rightofway
and take reasonable precautions to avoid injury to the pedestrian and the
service animal. The pedestrian has the same rights as any other person whether
or not the pedestrian is carrying the cane, using a service animal or being
assisted by a sighted person. Drivers shall take the same precautions with
respect to pedestrians who have a disability other than blindness and their
service animals. A driver who violates this subsection is liable for damages
for any injury caused to the pedestrian or the service animal.
I.It is
unlawful for a person to falsely or fraudulently claim, through verbal or
written notice, to be the owner or trainer of a service animal.
H.J.Any
person or entity that violates subsections
subsection A, through G B, C, D, E, F, G, H or I of this section is guilty of a
class 2 misdemeanor.
I.K.This
section is not intended to affect any civil remedies available for a violation
of this section.
J.L.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Direct threat to the health or safety of
others" means that a significant risk to the health or safety of others
exists and cannot be eliminated by modification of policies, practices or
procedures or by the provision of auxiliary aids or services.
2."Discriminate" means discriminatory
actions prescribed in section 411492.02 and includes:
(a)Refusing to permit an individual with a
disability to enter a public place with a service animal or interfering with
the individual's right to enter or use the public place.
(b)Failing to provide an individual with a
disability the same services and access to the same areas of the premises as
afforded to others.
(c)Attempting to impose a charge, fee or deposit
because an individual with a disability is accompanied by a service animal.
(d)Requiring an individual with a disability to
disclose disability related information. However, a public accommodation may
ask if the animal is a service animal being used because of a disability or what work or task the service animal has
been trained to perform.
(e)Requiring
provision of identification for the service animal.
3."Individual with a disability" means an
individual who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
one or more of the major life activities of the individual.
4."Public place" means any office or
place of business or recreation to which the general public is invited, whether
operated by a public or private entity and includes all forms of conveyance,
including taxis, tow trucks and ambulances.
5."Service animal" means any dog or
miniature horse that is individually trained and certified to do work or perform tasks for
the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory,
psychiatric, intellectual or other mental disability.Service animal
does not include other species of animals, whether wild or domestic or trained
or untrained.
6."Wild animal park" means an entity that
is open to the public on a regular basis, that is licensed by the United States
department of agriculture as an exhibit and that is operating primarily to
conserve, propagate and exhibit wild and exotic animals. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 11, chapter 7, article 6.1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 11-1024.01, to read:
START_STATUTE11-1024.01.Service animals; certification and registration;
identification; definitions
A.A service
animal shall be certified by and registered with a statewide or nationwide
service animal registration organization that requires at least one year of
initial training and annual testing to maintain certification and registration
with the organization.
B.A service animal in a public place shall wear
a vest that displays the following information:
1.The name of the person who trained the service
animal.
2.The name of the organization that certified
the animal as a service animal.
3.The registration number provided by the
organization that certified the animal as a service animal.
C.A service
animal's handler shall carry a service animal identification card when in a
public place with a service animal. The identification card shall contain the
following:
1.The words "certified service
animal".
2.A photograph of the service animal.
3.The name of the service animal.
4.The name of the service animal's handler.
5.The registration number provided by the
organization that certified the animal as a service animal.
D.For the purposes of this section, "public
place" and "service animal" have the same meanings prescribed in
section 111024. END_STATUTE

