







REFERENCE TITLE: water protection fund; conservation;
  supply







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1191









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, McGuire





AN ACT

amending sections
45-2101 and 45-2113, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona water
protection fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 45-2101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-2101.Declaration of policy
A.It is the declared policy of the legislature to
provide for a coordinated effort for the restoration and conservation of the
water resources of this state.This policy is designed to allow the
people of this state to prosper while protecting and restoring this state's
rivers and streams and associated riparian habitats, including fish and
wildlife resources that are dependent on these important
habitats.In support of this policy, financial resources shall be
made available by this state to the appropriate public and private entities to
assist in water resource management activities that protect this state's rivers
and streams and associated riparian habitats.
B.The primary purpose of this chapter is to
establish the Arizona water protection fund commission and the Arizona water
protection fund that shall provide an annual source of funds monies
for the development and implementation of measures to protect
water of sufficient quality and quantity to maintain, enhance and restore
rivers and streams and associated riparian habitats, including fish and
wildlife resources that are dependent on these important habitats consistent
with existing water law and water rights,
and measures to increase water availability.The
commission may also provide funding to develop and protect riparian habitats in
conjunction with a man-made water resource project, if the man-made water
resource water project directly or indirectly benefits a river or stream and
includes or creates a riparian habitat.This funding shall occur
primarily through the grant of monies from the Arizona water protection fund by
the commission to entities that cooperate and work in conjunction with local
residents and affected jurisdictions.
C.This declaration of policy and the use of the
words "restore", "restoring" and "restoration" in
this chapter shall does not imply an intent to
prescribe the removal of dams, levees or other man-made structures.
D.Nothing in
This chapter shall does not limit or restrict the
authority or opportunities of state or local governments or other political
subdivisions to plan, develop or implement projects consistent with this
chapter.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 45-2113, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-2113.Fund grants; applications
A.The commission shall grant monies from the fund
consistent with the application guidelines developed pursuant to section 452105.The
commission shall establish a procedure by which monies may be granted annually
which shall include a maximum of six months between the receipt of the proposal
by the commission and the disbursement of monies.The commission
shall give priority in funding to the following:
1.Projects for which matching monies or assets of
comparable value, including in-kind contributions, will be provided by other
sources.
2.Projects that provide for the continued maintenance
of the portion of the river and stream and associated riparian habitat that are
enhanced by the project.
3.Projects that include broad based local
involvement.
4.Projects that directly benefit perennial or
intermittent rivers or streams or that
otherwise increase the supply of water.
B.The commission shall require as a condition of
approval of any proposal all of the following provisions:
1.Allowing access for inspection and evaluation of
the project.
2.Controlling the expenditure of and accounting for
any monies granted by the commission
3.Requiring that those persons responsible for the
project submit all pertinent information and research gained from the project
to the commission.
4.Requiring that any person receiving a grant spend
no more than five per cent percent of the grant on costs
of administration.
C.The commission shall provide for public
involvement regarding the applications submitted to the commission which shall
include notice to any person who requests notice of applications and which
shall provide a reasonable opportunity for comment on the application which
shall not be less than fortyfive days.
D.On receipt of an application the commission shall
notify cities, towns, counties, natural resource conservation districts,
special districts and Indian communities affected by the proposal and shall
provide a reasonable opportunity for comment on the application which shall not
be less than fortyfive days.
E.Any person, state agency or political subdivision
of this state may submit a request for funding from the fund for purposes
prescribed by this section.A federal agency is not eligible for
funding from the fund. Requests for funding shall be made to the commission.
Requests for funding submitted to the commission may be accompanied by
expressions of support from affected cities, towns, counties, natural resource
conservation districts, special districts or Indian communities.
F.As a condition of approval by the commission, the
applicant shall commit to work jointly with the affected cities, towns,
counties, natural resource conservation districts, special districts and Indian
communities that have contacted the commission pursuant to subsection D of this
section on all aspects of the proposal's implementation and monitoring, unless
the jurisdiction chooses not to participate.
G.Monies in the fund may only be spent to finance
programs located in this state.
H.Monies in the fund may be spent for any of the
following:
1.Granting monies to entities for the acquisition
of central Arizona project water or effluent that will protect or restore
rivers or streams consistent with state water law. No entity may exercise the
right of eminent domain to acquire water or water rights using monies derived
from this fund.
2.Granting monies to assist in developing,
promoting and implementing water conservation programs, directly related to the
purposes of this chapter, outside of the active management areas, except that no more than five per cent of the monies spent
in any fiscal year may be spent for this purpose.
3.Granting monies in support of research and data
collection, compilation and analysis directly related to the purposes of this
chapter except that no more than five per
cent percent of
the monies deposited in the fund in any fiscal year may be spent for this
purpose. Before the approval of any such project, the commission shall consult
with the department of water resources and the state land department to
determine whether any research of a similar nature has been or is in the
process of being performed and is already available.The commission
shall not approve a proposal if either department determines that sufficient
data exists and notifies the commission in writing.
4.Granting monies for the development and
implementation of capital projects or specific measures consistent with the
purposes of this chapter.
I.Monies in the fund may not be spent for:
1.Any project that includes the planting of
mesquite, tamarisk or other nonnative high water usage trees that consume water
to a degree that is detrimental to water conservation efforts, but may be used
for removal of mesquite, tamarisk or other nonnative high water usage trees
that consume water to a degree that is detrimental to water conservation efforts.
2.Any remedial action purposes undertaken pursuant
to the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of
1980, as amended (P.L. 96-510; 94 Stat. 2767; 42 United States Code section
9601) or title 49, chapter 2, article 5. END_STATUTE

