







REFERENCE TITLE: tax credit cap; angel investor







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1139









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D, Begay, Dial, Farley; Representatives Fann, Meyer, Shope,
  Stevens: Senators Smith, Worsley; Representatives Borrelli, Thorpe, Weninger





AN ACT

Amending section
41-1518, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to capital investment tax
incentives.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1518, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1518.Capital investment incentives; evaluation; certification;
definitions
A.The Arizona commerce authority shall receive and
evaluate applications that are submitted by qualified investors to receive a
tax credit pursuant to section 431074.02 for qualified investments made
in a qualified small business and shall
certify to the department of revenue the names, amounts and other relevant
information relating to the applicants.
B.To be eligible for a tax credit pursuant to this
section and section 431074.02, a qualified investor shall file an
application with the authority within ninety days after making a qualified
investment.The application, on a form prescribed by the authority,
shall include:
1.The name, address and federal income tax
identification number of the applicant.
2.The name and federal employer identification
number of the qualified small business that received a qualified investment
made by the applicant.
3.The date the qualified investment was made.
4.Any additional information that the authority
requires.
C.As part of the application, the applicant and the
qualified small business that receives the investment shall each provide
written authorization pursuant to section 422003 designating the
authority as eligible to receive tax information from the department of revenue
for the purpose of determining if any misrepresentations exist on the
application. The authorization shall limit disclosure to income tax
information for the latest two years for which returns were filed with the
department of revenue preceding the date the application is filed and for all
tax years through the year in which the investment was made for which a return
was not filed as of the date of the application. The applicant shall also
provide in the written authorization income tax information for all tax years
in which the applicant could claim or carry forward the credit pursuant to this
section, but limited to the tax years in which the applicant actually claims a
credit or carries forward a credit on a return filed with the department of
revenue.An applicant who has an individual ownership interest as a
co-owner of a business who may be entitled to a pro rata share of the credit
pursuant to section 431074.02, subsection E shall provide a written
authorization with content similar to the authorization, and in the same manner
as, any other applicant is required to provide.
D.The authority shall review and make a
determination with respect to each application within ninety days after
receiving the application. The authority may request additional information
from the applicant in order to make an informed decision regarding the
eligibility of the qualified investor or qualified small business.
E.Subject to subsection F of this section, the
authority shall authorize tax credits for each qualified investor who makes a
qualified investment in a qualified small business. The amount of the credit
shall be:
1.If the qualified investment is made in a
qualified small business that maintains its principal place of business in a
rural county of this state or is a bioscience enterprise, twelve per cent percent of the amount of the investment per year for the
first and second taxable years after the investment is made and eleven per cent percent of the amount of the investment for
the third taxable year after the year in which the investment is made.
2.If the qualified investment is made in a
qualified small business other than a business described in paragraph 1 of this
subsection, ten per cent percent of the amount of the
investment for each of the three taxable years after the year in which the
investment is made.
F.The authority shall not authorize tax credits
under this section after June 30, 2021. Through June 30, 2016, the authority shall not certify tax
credits under this section exceeding twenty million dollars. From and after June 30, 2016 through June 30, 2021, the
authority may certify additional tax credits under this section not exceeding
seven million dollars.Tax credits that expire after
certification or that are otherwise not timely used by the qualified investor
for whom they were originally authorized shall be included in the twenty million applicable dollar limitation limit.If qualifying applications
exceed twenty million dollars
the dollar limit, the
authority shall authorize credits in the order of the date and time that the
applications are received by the authority, as evidenced by the time and date
stamped on the application when received by the authority. All applications
shall be filed on a form and in the manner prescribed by the Arizona commerce
authority. If an application is received that, if authorized, would require
the authority to exceed the twenty
million applicable
dollar limit, the authority shall only grant the applicant the remaining amount
of tax credits that would not exceed the twenty
million dollar limit. After the authority authorizes twenty million dollars in the allowable amount of tax
credits, the authority shall deny any subsequent applications that are
received.The authority shall certify to the qualified investor and
to the department of revenue the amount of the tax credit that is authorized
for purposes of section 431074.02 for each taxable year described in
subsection E of this section.
G.The total of all qualified investments in any
calendar year by a qualified investor and its affiliates in qualified small
businesses that are eligible for a tax credit pursuant to this section and
section 431074.02 shall not exceed five hundred thousand
dollars.The maximum amount of qualified investments in a single
qualified small business for which the authority may authorize tax credits
under this section shall not exceed an aggregate of two million dollars in
investments for all taxable years.If applications for tax credits
are received for investments that exceed the limits prescribed by this
subsection for any qualified small business, the authority shall authorize
credits in the order of the date and time that the applications are received by
the authority.If an application is received that, if authorized,
would require the authority to authorize tax credits for any investment in a
qualified small business that would cause the total qualified investments in
the business to exceed the limits prescribed by this subsection, the authority
shall only grant the applicant the remaining amount of tax credits that would
not exceed the limits prescribed by this subsection.
H.The qualified investor shall file a return
claiming the tax credit with the department of revenue for application against
income tax pursuant to section 431074.02 by the due date of the return,
including extensions, for the tax year in which the credit is available. If
the qualified investor fails to timely file a return claiming the credit for a
taxable year, the credit expires for that taxable year and there shall be no
carryforward of the expired credit. If a qualified investor includes co-owners
of a business who qualify for individual pro rata shares of the credit pursuant
to section 431074.02, subsection E, each individual owner shall file a
return claiming the tax credit with the department of revenue by the due date
of the return, including extensions, for the tax year in which the credit is
available. If an individual coowner fails to timely file a return
claiming the credit for a taxable year, the credit expires for that taxable
year and there shall be no carryforward of the expired credit. Credits that
expire or that otherwise are not timely used by the qualified investor or by
the individual coowner of a business for whom the credits were
originally authorized shall not be reissued.
I.On receiving an application for a tax credit from
a qualified investor, or a written request for certification as a qualified
small business from a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or
other business entity, the authority shall determine whether the corporation,
limited liability company, partnership or other business entity that is named
in the application or written request is a qualified small
business.The authority shall determine if the business is a bioscience
enterprise and if the business maintains its principal place of business in a
rural county in this state.After determining the qualifications,
the authority shall certify the qualified small business as being eligible to
receive qualified investments for purposes of this section. The certification
is valid for one year, but the authority may revoke the certification at any
time or refuse to renew the certification if the business fails to maintain the
required qualifications.If a qualified small business fails to
maintain the qualifications, the business shall notify the authority within
five business days of after failing to meet the
qualifications. The authority shall revoke the certification of the business
and may assess a penalty against the business entity equal to the amount of the
tax credits authorized after the business failed to meet the qualifications.
The penalty shall be deposited into the state general fund. If the
certification is revoked or expires, subsequent investments in the business do not
qualify for a tax credit pursuant to this section and section 431074.02.
All tax credits that are issued before any expiration or revocation of the
certification shall remain valid.Any application for a tax credit
shall not be denied on the basis of the expiration or revocation of the
certification if the investment was made before the date of the expiration or
revocation.
J.The authority shall provide to the department of
revenue necessary information required to administer this section and section
431074.02.If the authority subsequently discovers that an
applicant who received a tax credit misrepresented information on the
application, the authority shall immediately notify the department of revenue
and provide the department of revenue all information that relates to that
applicant. If the department of revenue determines that there has been a
misrepresentation on the application, the department of revenue shall deny the
credit if the misrepresentation relates to whether the applicant was a qualified
investor or made a qualified investment.If the misrepresentation
relates to whether the investment was made to:
1.A qualified small business, the department of
revenue shall deny the credit only if the applicant knew or should have known
at any time before the certification that the representation was false.
2.A bioscience enterprise or a business that
maintains its principal place of business in a rural county in this state, the
department of revenue shall decrease the amount of the credit that would have
been allowed under subsection E, paragraph 1 of this section to the amount
allowed under subsection E, paragraph 2 of this section only if the applicant
knew or should have known at any time before the certification that the
representation was false.
K.For the purposes of this section:
1."Affiliate" means any person or entity
that controls, that is controlled by or that is under common control with
another person or entity. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"control" means the power to determine the policies of an entity
whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
2."Asset" means any owned property that
has value, including
financial assets and physical assets. Intellectual property shall not be
included when determining total assets.
3."Bioscience enterprise" means a
business whose activity is related to bioscience as determined by the authority
or any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other business
entity that is primarily engaged in a business that conducts research,
development, manufacture manufacturing, marketing, sale sales and licensing of products, services and
solutions relating to either of the following:
(a)Medical, pharmaceutical, nutraceutical,
bioengineering, biomechanical, bioinformatics or other life-science based
applications.
(b)Applications of modern biological,
bioengineering, biomechanical or bioinformatics technologies in the fields of
human, plant or animal health, agriculture, defense, homeland security or the
environment.
4."Qualified investment" means an
investment in an equity security that meets all of the following requirements:
(a)The equity security shall be common stock,
preferred stock, an interest in a partnership or limited liability company, a
security that is convertible into an equity security or any other equity
security as determined by the authority.
(b)The investment shall be at least twenty-five
thousand dollars.
(c)The qualified investor and its affiliates do not
hold, of record or beneficially, immediately before making an investment,
equity securities possessing more than thirty per cent percent of the total voting power of all equity securities
of the qualified small business. 
5."Qualified investor" means an
individual, limited liability company, partnership, S corporation as defined in
section 1361 of the internal revenue code or other business entity that makes a
qualified investment in a qualified small business. Qualified investor does
not mean a corporation that is subject to tax under title 43, chapter 11.
6."Qualified small business" means a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other business entity
that:
(a)Maintains at least a portion of its operations
at an office or manufacturing or research facility located in this state.
(b)Has at least two principal full-time equivalent
employees who are residents in this state. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "principal" means a person whose sole responsibility is
not administrative.
(c)Does not engage in any activities that involve
human cloning or embryonic stem cell research.
(d)Has total assets not exceeding two million
dollars through December 31, 2011 or ten million dollars beginning from and
after December31, 2011, excluding any investment made under this section.
(e)Has not exceeded the limitation limit on qualified investments prescribed by
subsection G of this section.
(f)Does not have a principal business involving
activities excluded by the authority. The authority shall provide a list of
excluded businesses to any person on request.
7."Rural county" means a county that has
a population of seven hundred fifty thousand or fewer persons. END_STATUTE

