







REFERENCE TITLE: food stamp benefits; unlawful use







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1106









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

amending section
13-3701, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to unlawful use of food stamps.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3701.Unlawful use of food stamps; classification; definitions
A.A person commits unlawful use of food stamps if such the person knowingly:
1.Uses, transfers, acquires, possesses or redeems
food stamps by means of a false statement or representation, a material
omission or the failure to disclose a change in circumstances, or
by any other fraudulent device. or in
any other manner not authorized by law or by the department of economic
security; or
2.Counterfeits, alters, uses, transfers, acquires
or possesses counterfeited or altered food stamps or electronic benefit
transfer cards. ;or
3.Appropriates food stamps with which the person
has been entrusted or of which the person has gained possession by virtue of a
position as a public employee.
4.Uses, after
an unlawful transfer, the food stamps of another person.
4.Buys,
sells, transfers, acquires or redeems food stamps, or eligible food purchased
with food stamps, in exchange for cash or consideration other than eligible
food.
B.Unlawful use of food stamps under subsection A,
paragraph 1 is a class 1 misdemeanor if the value of the food stamps is one
hundred dollars or less, or a class 6 felony if the value is over one hundred
dollars.Unlawful use of food stamps under subsection A, paragraphs
2, 3 and 4 is a class 5 felony.
C.For the purposes of this section: ,
1."Eligible
food" means any of the following:
(a)any food or food product that is
intended for human consumption except alcoholic beverages, tobacco and hot
foods and hot food products that are prepared for immediate consumption.
(b)Seeds and plants to grow foods
for the personal consumption of an eligible household.
(c)Meals that are prepared and
delivered by an authorized meal delivery service to a household that is
eligible to use coupons to purchase delivered meals or meals that are served by
an authorized communal dining facility for the elderly or for a supplemental
security income household, or both, to a household that is eligible to use
coupons for communal dining. 
(d)Meals that are prepared and
served by a drug addict or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation center to
narcotic addicts or alcoholics and the children who live with the narcotic
addict or alcoholic. 
(e)Meals that are prepared and
served by a group living arrangement facility to residents who are blind or who
have a disability. 
(f)Meals that are prepared and
served by a shelter for battered women and children to the shelter's eligible
residents. 
(g)In the case of homeless food
stamp households, both:
(i)meals that are prepared for and
served by an authorized public or private nonprofit establishment, including a
soup kitchen or temporary shelter, that is approved by an appropriate state or
local agency and that feeds homeless persons.
(ii)Meals that are prepared by a
restaurant that contracts with an appropriate state agency to serve meals to
homeless persons at low or reduced prices.
2."Food
stamps" includes food stamp coupons and electronically transferred
supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits. END_STATUTE

