







REFERENCE TITLE: public library operation; thirdparty
  contracts 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1198









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, Dalessandro, McGuire: Representatives Borrelli, Carter, Cobb, Pratt





AN ACT

Amending sections
11904 and 15362, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to public
libraries.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-904, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-904.Contracts for third party to assume function of county
free library; termination
A.Instead
of establishing a separate county free library, the board of supervisors may
enter into a contract under the
provisions of this section with any of the following: 
1.The
board of library trustees or other authority in charge of the free public
library of an incorporated a city or town, and the board
of library trustees or other authority in charge may make such a
contract.
2.The
governing board of a school district.
3.The
governing board of a community college district.
4.A
nonprofit corporation.
B.The
contract may provide that the free public
library of the incorporated city or town, school district, community college district or nonprofit
corporation shall assume the functions of a county free library
within the county, including incorporated
the cities and towns
therein.The board of supervisors may pay annually into the library fund of the incorporated city or
town such sum as is agreed uponthe amount agreed on in the contract to the city or
town, school district, community college district or nonprofit corporation.Either
party may terminate the contract by giving six months months'
notice of intention to do so. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-362, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-362.Libraries; powers and duties; authority to contract with a
county, county free library or other public library
A.The governing board of a school district may
establish and maintain libraries.Such libraries shall be under
control of the board. The board shall be accountable for the care of the
libraries, but it may appoint district librarians, or it may put the libraries
under direct charge of a teacher or other qualified person.When
requested, the board shall report on the libraries to the county school
superintendent on forms supplied by the superintendent of public instruction.
B.The governing board shall:
1.Enforce the rules prescribed for government of
school libraries.
2.Exclude from school libraries all books,
publications and papers of a sectarian, partisan or denominational character.
This paragraph shall not be construed to
does not prohibit any
materials for the elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
C.A district library shall be free to all pupils of
suitable age who attend the school.Residents of the district may
become entitled to library privileges by payment of fees and compliance with
regulations prescribed by the board.The governing board may enter
into a contract or agreement with the proper authorities of a county free
library or other public library possessing facilities for rendering the desired
service for the procurement of reference or other library books or the
extension services of such library. The amount so expended shall not exceed two percent of the
total school district budget for the school year during which the services are
utilized.
D.A school district governing board may enter into
intergovernmental agreements with counties,
county free library districts and municipal libraries in the
county where the school district is located. END_STATUTE

