







REFERENCE TITLE: guardians; duties; access to ward







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1102









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

amending section
145312, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 14, chapter 5, article
3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 145316; relating to
guardians of incapacitated persons.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 14-5312, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5312.General powers and duties of guardian
A.A guardian of an incapacitated person has the
same powers, rights and duties respecting the guardian's ward that a parent has
respecting the parent's unemancipated minor child, except that a guardian is
not liable to third persons for acts of the ward solely by reason of the
guardianship.In particular, and without qualifying the foregoing, a
guardian has the following powers and duties, except as modified by order of
the court:
1.To the extent that it is consistent with the
terms of any order by a court of competent jurisdiction relating to detention
or commitment of the ward, the guardian is entitled to custody of the person of
the ward and may establish the ward's place of abode within or without this
state.
2.If entitled to custody of the ward the guardian
shall make provision for the care, comfort and maintenance of the ward and,
whenever appropriate, arrange for the ward's training and
education.Without regard to custodial rights of the ward's person,
the guardian shall take reasonable care of the ward's clothing, furniture,
vehicles and other personal effects and commence protective proceedings if
other property of the ward is in need of protection.
3.A guardian may give any consents or approvals
that may be necessary to enable the ward to receive medical or other
professional care, counsel, treatment or service.
4.If no conservator for the estate of the ward has
been appointed, the guardian may:
(a)Institute proceedings to compel any person under
a duty to support the ward or to pay sums for the welfare of the ward to
perform such person's duty.
(b)Receive money and tangible property deliverable
to the ward and apply the money and property for support, care and education of
the ward, but the guardian may not use funds from his the
ward's estate for room and board the guardian or the guardian's spouse, parent
or child has furnished the ward unless a charge for the service is approved by
order of the court made upon on notice to at least one of
the next of kin of the ward, if notice is possible. He the
guardian must exercise care to conserve any excess for the ward's
needs.
5.A guardian is required to report the condition of
the ward and of the estate that has been subject to the guardian's possession
or control, as required by the court or court rule.
6.If a conservator has been appointed, all of the
ward's estate received by the guardian in excess of those funds expended to
meet current expenses for support, care and education of the ward shall be paid
to the conservator for management as provided in this chapter and the guardian
must account to the conservator for funds expended.
7.If appropriate, a guardian shall encourage the
ward to develop maximum selfreliance and independence and shall actively
work toward limiting or terminating the guardianship and seeking alternatives
to guardianship.
8.A guardian shall find the most appropriate and
least restrictive setting for the ward consistent with the ward's needs,
capabilities and financial ability.
9.A guardian shall make reasonable efforts to
secure appropriate medical and psychological care and social services for the
ward.
10.A guardian shall make reasonable efforts to
secure appropriate training, education and social and vocational opportunities
for his the ward in order to maximize the ward's
potential for independence.
11.In making decisions concerning his the
ward, a guardian shall take into consideration the ward's values and wishes.
12.The guardian is authorized to act pursuant to
title 36, chapter 32.
13.The guardian of an incapacitated adult who has a
developmental disability as defined in section 36551 shall seek services
that are in the best interest of the ward, taking into consideration:
(a)The ward's age.
(b)The degree or type of developmental disability.
(c)The presence of other disabling conditions.
(d)The guardian's ability to provide the maximum
opportunity to develop the ward's maximum potential, to provide a minimally
structured residential program and environment for the ward and to provide a
safe, secure, and
dependable residential and program environment.
(e)The particular desires of the individual.
B.Any guardian of a ward for whom a conservator
also has been appointed shall control the custody and care of the ward and is
entitled to receive reasonable sums for the guardian's services and for room
and board furnished to the ward as agreed upon on
between the guardian and the conservator if the amounts agreed upon on
are reasonable under the circumstances.The guardian may request the
conservator to expend the ward's estate by payment to third persons or
institutions for the ward's care and maintenance. 
C.A
guardian shall make good faith efforts to maintain the ward's historical
relationships as evidenced by past patterns and practices and ensure that the
ward has reasonable access to family and friends. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title
14, chapter 5, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 14-5316, to read:
START_STATUTE14-5316.Notice to family members of adult ward's hospitalization
or death; definition
A.A
guardian shall notify the family members of an adult ward if either of the
following OCCURS:
1.The adult
ward is admitted to a hospital for a period of more than three days.
2.The adult
ward dies. This notification shall include information about any funeral
arrangements and the place of burial.
B.For the
purposes of this section, "family members" means:
1.The adult
ward's spouse.
2.The adult
ward's parents.
3.All the
adult children of the adult ward.
4.Any
person who has filed a demand for notice.
5.If no
person listed under paragraph 1, 2, 3 or 4 of this subsection can be notified,
At least one of the adult ward's closest adult relatives, if such an adult
relative can be found. END_STATUTE

