







REFERENCE TITLE: terminally ill; care choices







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1136









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire: Dalessandro, Hobbs; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 33; Relating to end-of-life
decisions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 33, to read:
CHAPTER 33
DEATH WITH DIGNITY
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-3301Definitions
In this
article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Adult"
means an individual who is eighteen years of age or older.
2."Attending
physician" means the physician who has primary responsibility for the care
of the patient and treatment of the patient's terminal disease.
3."Capable"
means that in the opinion of a court or in the opinion of a patient's attending
physician or consulting physician, psychiatrist or psychologist, the patient
has the ability to make and communicate health care decisions to health care
providers, including communication through persons familiar with the patient's
manner of communicating if those persons are available.
4."Consulting
physician" means a physician who is qualified by specialty or experience
to make a professional diagnosis and prognosis regarding the patient's disease.
5."Counseling"
means one or more consultations as necessary between a state licensed
psychiatrist or psychologist and a patient for the purpose of determining that
the patient is capable and not suffering from a psychiatric or psychological
disorder or depression causing impaired judgment.
6."Department"
means the department of health services.
7."Health
care provider" means a person who is licensed, certified or otherwise
authorized or permitted by the laws of this state to administer health care or
dispense medication in the ordinary course of business or practice of a
profession, and includes a health care facility.
8."Informed
decision" means a decision by a qualified patient to request and obtain a
prescription to end the patient's life in a humane and dignified manner that is
based on an appreciation of the relevant facts and that is made after being
fully informed by the attending physician of all of the following:
(a)The patient's medical
diagnosis.
(b)The patient's
prognosis.
(c)The potential risks
associated with taking the medication to be prescribed.
(d)The probable result of
taking the medication to be prescribed.
(e)Feasible alternatives
to taking the medication, including comfort care, hospice care and pain
control.
9."Medically
confirmed" means the medical opinion of the attending physician has been
confirmed by a consulting physician who has examined the patient and the
patient's relevant medical records.
10."Patient"
means a person who is under the care of a physician.
11."Physician"
means an individual who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
12."Qualified
patient" means a capable adult who is a resident of this state and who has
satisfied the requirements of this article in order to obtain a prescription
for medication to end his or her life in a humane and dignified manner.
13."Terminal
disease" means an incurable and irreversible disease that has been
medically confirmed and will produce death, with reasonable medical judgment,
within six months. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3302.Written request for medication; initiation
A.An adult who is capable, is a
resident of this state and has been determined by the attending physician and
consulting physician to be suffering from a terminal disease, and who has
voluntarily expressed a wish to die, may make a written request for medication
for the purpose of ending the person's life in a humane and dignified manner in
accordance with this article.
B.A
person does not qualify under this article solely because of age or disability.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3303.Form of request; witnesses; signatures
A.A valid request for medication
under this article shall be in substantially the form described in section 363321,
be signed and dated by the patient and be witnessed by at least two individuals
who, in the presence of the patient, attest that to the best of their knowledge
and belief the patient is capable, is acting voluntarily and is not being
coerced to sign the request.
B.One
of the witnesses shall be a person who is not any of the following:
1.A
relative of the patient by blood, marriage or adoption.
2.At
the time the request is signed, entitled to any portion of the estate of the
qualified patient on the patient's death under any will or by operation of law.
3.An
owner, operator or employee of a health care facility where the qualified
patient is receiving medical treatment or is a resident.
C.The
patient's attending physician at the time the request is signed may not be a
witness.
D.If
the patient is a patient in a long term care facility at the time the written
request is made, one of the witnesses shall be an individual who is designated
by the facility and who has the qualifications specified by the department in
rule. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3304.Attending physician; requirements
A.The attending physician shall do
all of the following:
1.Make
the initial determination of whether a patient has a terminal disease, is
capable and has made the request voluntarily.
2.Request
that the patient demonstrate residency in this state pursuant to section 363313.
3.To
ensure that the patient is making an informed decision, inform the patient of
all of the following:
(a)The patient's medical
diagnosis.
(b)The patient's
prognosis.
(c)The potential risks
associated with taking the medication to be prescribed.
(d)The probable result of
taking the medication to be prescribed.
(e)Feasible alternatives
to taking the medication, including comfort care, hospice care and pain
control.
4.Refer
the patient to a consulting physician for medical confirmation of the diagnosis
and for a determination that the patient is capable and acting voluntarily.
5.Refer
the patient for counseling if appropriate pursuant to section 363306.
6.Recommend
that the patient notify the patient's next of kin.
7.Counsel
the patient about the importance of having another person present when the
patient takes the medication prescribed pursuant to this article and of not
taking the medication in a public place.
8.Inform
the patient that the patient can rescind the request at any time and in any
manner and offer the patient an opportunity to rescind at the end of the
fifteenday waiting period pursuant to section 363309.
9.Verify,
immediately before writing the prescription for medication under this article,
that the patient is making an informed decision.
10.Fulfill
the medical record documentation requirements of section 363312.
11.Ensure
that all appropriate steps are carried out in accordance with this article
before writing a prescription for medication to enable a qualified patient to
end the patient's life in a humane and dignified manner.
12.Either:
(a)If the attending
physician is authorized by state and federal law to dispense the medication,
dispense medications directly, including ancillary medications intended to
facilitate the desired effect to minimize the patient's discomfort.
(b)With the patient's
written consent, do both of the following:
(i)Contact a pharmacist
and inform the pharmacist of the prescription.
(ii)Deliver the written
prescription personally or by other means to the pharmacist, who will dispense
the medications to either the patient, the attending physician or an expressly
identified agent of the patient.
B.Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the attending physician may sign the patient's
death certificate. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3305.Consulting physician confirmation of diagnosis
Before a patient is deemed qualified under this
article, a consulting physician shall examine the patient and the patient's
relevant medical records, shall confirm in writing the attending physician's
diagnosis that the patient is suffering from a terminal disease and shall
verify that the patient is capable, is acting voluntarily and has made an
informed decision. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3306.Counseling referral; prohibition
If, in the
opinion of the attending physician or the consulting physician, a patient may
be suffering from a psychiatric or psychological disorder or depression causing
impaired judgment, either physician shall refer the patient for counseling.
Medication to end a patient's life in a humane and dignified manner may not be
prescribed until the person performing the counseling determines that the
patient is not suffering from a psychiatric or psychological disorder or
depression causing impaired judgment. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3307.Informed decision
A person may
not receive a prescription for medication to end the patient's life in a humane
and dignified manner unless the person has made an informed decision.
Immediately before writing a prescription for medication under this article,
the attending physician shall verify that the patient is making an informed
decision. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3308.Family notification
The attending
physician shall recommend that the patient notify the patient's next of kin of
the patient's request for medication pursuant to this article. A patient who
declines or is unable to notify next of kin may not have the patient's request
denied for that reason. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3309.Written and oral requests
In order to
receive a prescription for medication to end the patient's life in a humane and
dignified manner, a qualified patient shall have made an oral request and a
written request, and reiterate the oral request to the patient's attending
physician at least fifteen days after making the initial oral
request.At the time the qualified patient makes the second oral
request, the attending physician shall offer the patient an opportunity to
rescind the request. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3310.Right to rescind request
A patient may rescind a
request at any time and in any manner without regard to the patient's mental
state. A prescription for medication under this article may not be written
without the attending physician offering the qualified patient an opportunity
to rescind the request. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3311.Waiting periods
At least
fifteen days shall elapse between the patient's initial oral request and the
writing of a prescription under this article.At least fortyeight
hours shall elapse between the patient's written request and the writing of a
prescription under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3312.Medical records; documentation; requirements
All of the following shall be documented or filed in
the patient's medical record:
1.All
oral requests by a patient for medication to end the patient's life in a humane
and dignified manner.
2.All
written requests by a patient for medication to end the patient's life in a
humane and dignified manner.
3.The
attending physician's diagnosis and prognosis and determination that the
patient is capable, is acting voluntarily and has made an informed decision.
4.The
consulting physician's diagnosis and prognosis and verification that the
patient is capable, is acting voluntarily and has made an informed decision.
5.A
report of the outcome and determinations made during counseling, if performed.
6.The
attending physician's offer to the patient to rescind the patient's request at
the time of the patient's second oral request pursuant to section 363309.
7.A
note by the attending physician indicating that all requirements under this
article have been met and indicating the steps taken to carry out the request,
including a notation of the medication prescribed. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3313.Residency requirement
Only requests
made by residents of this state under this article may be granted. Factors
demonstrating Arizona residency include any of the following:
1.Possession
of an Arizona driver license.
2.Registration
to vote in this state.
3.Evidence
that the person owns or leases property in this state.
4.Filing
of an Arizona state tax return for the most recent tax year. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3314.Reporting requirements
A.The department shall annually
review a sample of records maintained pursuant to this article.
B.The
department shall require any health care provider on dispensing medication pursuant
to this article to file a copy of the dispensing record with the department.
C.The
department shall adopt rules to facilitate the collection of information
regarding compliance with this article. Except as otherwise required by law,
the information collected is not a public record and may not be made available
for inspection by the public.
D.The
department shall generate and make available to the public an annual
statistical report of information collected under of this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3315.Effect on construction of contracts, wills or agreements
A.A provision in a contract, will or
other agreement, whether written or oral, to the extent that the provision
would affect whether a person may make or rescind a request for medication to
end the person's life in a humane and dignified manner, is invalid.
B.An
obligation owing under any currently existing contract may not be conditioned
on or affected by the making or rescinding of a request, by a person, for
medication to end the person's life in a humane and dignified manner. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3316.Insurance or annuity policies
The sale,
procurement or issuance of any life, health or accident insurance or annuity
policy or the rate charged for any policy may not be conditioned on or affected
by the making or rescinding of a request, by a person, for medication to end
the person's life in a humane and dignified manner.A qualified
patient's act of ingesting medication to end the patient's life in a humane and
dignified manner does not have an effect on a life, health or accident
insurance or annuity policy issued or delivered in this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3317.Construction of article
This article does not
authorize a physician or any other person to end a patient's life by lethal
injection, mercy killing or active euthanasia. Actions taken in accordance with
this article do not, for any purpose, constitute suicide, assisted suicide,
mercy killing or homicide under the law. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3318.Immunities; prohibiting a health care provider from
participation; permissible sanctions; definitions
A.Except
as provided in section 363319:
1.A
person is not subject to civil or criminal liability or professional
disciplinary action for participating in good faith compliance with this
article, including being present when a qualified patient takes the prescribed
medication to end the patient's life in a humane and dignified manner.
2.A
professional organization or association, or health care provider, may not
subject a person to censure, discipline, suspension, loss of license, loss of
privileges, loss of membership or any other penalty for participating or
refusing to participate in good faith compliance with this article.
3.A
request by a patient for or provision by an attending physician of medication
in good faith compliance with this article does not constitute neglect for any
purpose of law or provide the sole basis for the appointment of a guardian or
conservator.
4.A
health care provider is not under any duty, whether by contract, statute or any
other legal requirement, to participate in the provision to a qualified patient
of medication to end the patient's life in a humane and dignified manner. If a
health care provider is unable or unwilling to carry out a patient's request
under this article, and the patient transfers the patient's care to a new
health care provider, the prior health care provider shall transfer, on
request, a copy of the patient's relevant medical records to the new health
care provider.
5.Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, a health care provider may prohibit another health
care provider from participating in this article on the premises of the
prohibiting provider if the prohibiting provider has notified the health care
provider of the prohibiting provider's policy regarding participating in this
article. This paragraph does not prevent a health care provider from providing
health care services to a patient that do not constitute participation in this
article.
6.Notwithstanding
paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this subsection, a health care provider may subject
another health care provider to any of the following sanctions if the sanctioning
health care provider has notified the sanctioned provider before participation
in this article that the actions are prohibited:
(a)Loss of privileges,
loss of membership or any other sanction provided pursuant to the medical staff
bylaws, policies and procedures of the sanctioning health care provider if the
sanctioned provider is a member of the sanctioning health care provider's
medical staff and participates in this article while on the health care
facility premises of the sanctioning health care provider, but not including
the private medical office of a physician or other provider.
(b)Termination of lease
or other property contract or other nonmonetary remedies provided by a lease
contract, not including loss or restriction of medical staff privileges or
exclusion from a provider panel, if the sanctioned provider participates in
this article while on the premises of the sanctioning health care provider or
on property that is owned by or under the direct control of the sanctioning
health care provider.
(c)Termination of
contract or other nonmonetary remedies provided by contract if the sanctioned
health care provider participates in this article while acting in the course
and scope of the sanctioned provider's capacity as an employee or independent
contractor of the sanctioning health care provider. This paragraph does not to
prevent any of the following:
(i)A health care provider
from participating in this article while acting outside the course and scope of
the provider's capacity as an employee or independent contractor.
(ii)A patient from
contracting with the patient's attending physician and consulting physician to
act outside the course and scope of the provider's capacity as an employee or
independent contractor of the sanctioning health care provider.
7.A
health care provider that imposes sanctions pursuant to paragraph 6 of this
subsection must follow all due process and other procedures the sanctioning
health care provider may have that are related to the imposition of sanctions
on another health care provider.
8.Action
taken pursuant to section 363303, 363304, 363305 or 363306
may not be the sole basis for a report of unprofessional conduct under title
32, chapter 13 or 17.
9.This
article does not allow a lower standard of care for patients in the community
where the patient is treated or a similar community.
B.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Notify"
means specifically informing the health care provider in a separate statement
in writing prior to the provider's participation in this article of the
sanctioning health care provider's policy about participation in activities
covered by this article.
2."Participate
in this article":
(a)Means to perform the
duties of an attending physician pursuant to section 363304 or a
consulting physician pursuant to section 363305 or the counseling
function pursuant to section 363306.
(b)Does not include
making an initial determination that a patient has a terminal disease and
informing the patient of the medical prognosis, providing information about
this article to a patient on the request of the patient or providing a patient,
on the request of the patient, with a referral to another physician or a
patient contracting with the patient's attending physician and consulting physician
to act outside of the course and scope of the provider's capacity as an
employee or independent contractor of the sanctioning health care provider.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3319.Violations; classification; liability
A.A person who without authorization
of the patient wilfully alters or forges a request for medication or conceals
or destroys a rescission of that request with the intent or effect of causing
the patient's death is guilty of a class 2 felony.
B.A
person who coerces or exerts undue influence on a patient to request medication
for the purpose of ending the patient's life, or to destroy a rescission of
such a request, is guilty of a class 2 felony.
C.This
article does not limit further liability for civil damages resulting from other
negligent conduct or intentional misconduct by any person.
D.The
penalties in this article do not preclude criminal penalties applicable under
other law for conduct that is inconsistent with this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3320.Claims by governmental entity; costs
Any
governmental entity that incurs costs resulting from a person terminating the
person's life pursuant to this article in a public place has a claim against
the estate of the person to recover the costs and reasonable attorney fees
related to enforcing the claim. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-3321.Form of request
A request for a medication as authorized by this
article shall be in substantially the following form:
REQUEST FOR MEDICATION
TO END MY LIFE IN A HUMANE
AND DIGNIFIED MANNER
I, ________________,
am an adult of sound mind.
I am suffering from
_______, which my attending physician has determined is a terminal disease and
which has been medically confirmed by a consulting physician.
I have been fully
informed of my diagnosis, my prognosis, the nature of medication to be
prescribed and potential associated risks, the expected result and the feasible
alternatives, including comfort care, hospice care and pain control.
I request that my
attending physician prescribe medication that will end my life in a humane and
dignified manner.
INITIAL ONE:
_____ I have informed
my family of my decision and taken their opinions into consideration.
_____ I have decided
not to inform my family of my decision.
_____ I have no
family to inform of my decision.
I understand that I
have the right to rescind this request at any time.
I understand the full
import of this request and I expect to die when I take the medication to be
prescribed.I further understand that although most deaths occur
within three hours, my death may take longer and my physician has counseled me
about this possibility.
I make this request
voluntarily and without reservation, and I accept full moral responsibility for
my actions.
Signed:
____________________
Dated:
_____________________
DECLARATION OF WITNESSES
We declare that the
person signing this request:
1.Is
personally known to us or has provided proof of identity.
2.Signed
this request in our presence.
3.Appears
to be of sound mind and to not be under duress, fraud or undue influence.
4.Is not
a patient for whom either of us is the attending physician.
__________ Witness
1/Date ____________
__________ Witness
2/Date ____________
NOTE: One witness may
not be a relative (by blood, marriage or adoption) of the person signing this
request, may not be entitled to any portion of the person's estate on death and
may not own, operate or be employed at a health care facility where the person
is a patient or resident.If the patient is an inpatient at a health
care facility, one of the witnesses shall be an individual designated by the
facility. END_STATUTE

START_STATUTE36-3322.Violations; classification
A.A person is guilty of a class 2
felony who, without authorization of the principal, wilfully alters, forges,
conceals or destroys an instrument, the reinstatement or revocation of an
instrument or any other evidence or document reflecting the principal's desires
and interests, with the intent and effect of causing a withholding or
withdrawal of lifesustaining procedures or of artificially administered
nutrition and hydration that hastens the death of the principal.
B. Except as
provided in subsection A of this section, a person is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor who, without authorization of the principal, wilfully alters,
forges, conceals or destroys an instrument, the reinstatement or revocation of
an instrument or any other evidence or document reflecting the principal's
desires and interests with the intent or effect of affecting a health care
decision. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Severability
If a provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of the act that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

