







REFERENCE TITLE: universities; in-state tuition; refugees







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1123









Introduced by
Senators
  Farley: Allen S, Donahue





AN ACT

amending section
151802, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Classification of
Students for Tuition Purposes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1802, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1802.Instate student status
A.Except as otherwise provided in this article, no
person having a domicile elsewhere than in this state is eligible for
classification as an instate student for tuition purposes.
B.A person is not entitled to classification as an
instate student until the person is domiciled in this state for one
year, except that a person whose domicile is in this state is entitled to
classification as an instate student if the person meets one of the
following requirements:
1.The domicile
of the person's parent's
domicile parent
is in this state and the parent is entitled to claim the person as an exemption
for state and federal tax purposes.
2.The person is an employee of an employer that
transferred the person to this state for employment purposes or the person is
the spouse of such an employee.
3.The person is an employee of a school district in
this state and is under contract to teach on a fulltime basis or is employed
as a fulltime noncertified classroom aide at a school within that school
district. For the purposes of this paragraph, the person is eligible for
classification as an instate student only for courses necessary to
complete the requirements for certification by the state board of education to
teach in a school district in this state.No member of the person's
family is eligible for classification as an instate student if the
person is eligible for classification as an instate student pursuant to
this paragraph, unless the family member is otherwise eligible for
classification as an instate student pursuant to this section.
4.The person's spouse has established domicile in
this state for at least one year,
and has demonstrated intent
and financial independence and is entitled to claim the student as an exemption
for state and federal tax purposes or the person's spouse was temporarily out
of state for educational purposes, but maintained a domicile in this
state.If the person is a noncitizen, the person must be in an
eligible visa status pursuant to federal law to classify as an instate
student for tuition purposes.
C.The domicile of an unemancipated person is that
of the person's parent.
D.Any unemancipated person who remains in this
state when the person's parent, who had been domiciled in this state, removes
from this state is entitled to classification as an instate student
until attainment of the degree for which the person is currently enrolled, as long as the person
maintains continuous attendance.
E.A person who is a member of the armed forces of
the United States and who is stationed in this state pursuant to military
orders or who is the spouse or a dependent child as defined in section 431001
of a person who is a member of the armed forces of the United States and who is
stationed in this state pursuant to military orders is entitled to
classification as an instate student.A spouse or a dependent
child does not lose in-state student classification under this subsection if
the spouse or dependent child qualifies for in-state tuition classification at
the time the spouse or dependent child is accepted for admission to a community
college under the jurisdiction of a community college district governing board
or a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents. The
student, while in continuous attendance toward the degree for which currently
enrolled, does not lose instate student classification.
F.A person who is a member of the armed forces of
the United States or the spouse or a dependent as defined in section 431001
of a member of the armed forces of the United States is entitled to
classification as an instate student if the member of the armed forces
has claimed this state as the person's state of legal residence for at least
twelve consecutive months before the member of the armed forces, spouse or
dependent enrolls in a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board
of regents or a community college under the jurisdiction of a community college
district governing board. For the purposes of this subsection, the requirement
that a person be domiciled in this state for one year before enrollment to
qualify for instate student classification does not apply.
G.A person holding an honorable discharge from the
uniformed services of the United States from either active duty or reserve or
national guard status, or who has retired from active duty or reserve or
national guard status, shall be granted immediate classification as an instate
student and, while continuously enrolled, does not lose instate student
classification if the person has demonstrated objective evidence of intent to
be a resident of Arizona that, for the purposes of this section, includes at
least one of the following:
1.Registration to vote in this state.
2.An Arizona driver license.
3.Arizona motor vehicle registration.
4.Employment history in Arizona.
5.Transfer of major banking services to Arizona.
6.Change of permanent address on all pertinent
records.
7.Other materials of whatever kind or source
relevant to domicile or residency status.
H.A person who, while using educational assistance
under 38 United States Code chapter 30 or chapter 33, enrolls in a university under the jurisdiction
of the Arizona board of regents or a community college under the jurisdiction
of a community college district governing board within three years after the
veteran's discharge from active duty service of ninety or more days or within
three years after the service member's death in the line of duty following a
period of active duty service of ninety or more days or who remains
continuously enrolled beyond the threeyear period following the
discharge of the veteran or the service member's death shall be granted
immediate classification as an in-state student and does not lose instate
student classification if the person has demonstrated objective evidence of
intent to be a resident of this state that, for the purposes of this section,
includes at least one of the following:
1.Registration to vote in this state.
2.An Arizona driver license.
3.Arizona motor vehicle registration.
4.Employment history in Arizona.
5.Transfer of major banking services in to
Arizona.
6.Change of permanent address on all pertinent
records.
7.Other materials of whatever kind or source
relevant to domicile or residency status.
I.A person who is a member of an Indian tribe
recognized by the United States department of the interior whose reservation
land lies in this state and extends into another state and who is a resident of
the reservation is entitled to classification as an instate student.
J.A person
who currently resides in this state and who provides documentation that the
person has been granted refugee status by the united states government is
entitled to CLASSIFICATION as an instate student. For the purposes of
this subsection, the requirement that a person be domiciled in this state for
one year before enrollment to qualify for in-state tuition classification does
not apply. END_STATUTE

