







REFERENCE TITLE: conservation districts; education
  centers







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1190









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, McGuire





AN ACT

Amending section
37-1054, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to natural resource conservation
districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 37-1054, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-1054.Powers of district
A.This state recognizes the special expertise of
the districts in the fields of land, soil, water and natural resources
management within the boundaries of the district. A district is empowered to:
1.Conduct surveys, investigations and research
relating to the character of the soil, soil erosion prevention within a farm or
ranch, methods of cultivation, farm and range practices, seeding, eradication
of noxious growths and any other measures that will aid farm and range
operations, disseminate information pertaining thereto, and carry on research
programs with or without the cooperation of this state or its agencies or the
United States or its agencies.
2.Conduct demonstration projects within the
district on lands owned or controlled by the state or any of its agencies with
the consent and cooperation of the agency having jurisdiction of the land, and
on any other lands within the district on obtaining the consent of the
landowner or the necessary rights or interests in the land, in order to
demonstrate by example the means, methods and measures by which water, soil and
soil resources may be conserved and soil erosion and soil washing may be
prevented and controlled.
3.Cooperate and enter into agreements with a
landowner, an operator or any agency or subdivision of the state or federal
government to carry on programs of watershed improvement, soil erosion
prevention, methods of cultivation, cropping practices, land leveling and improvement
on agricultural lands, and programs limited to methods of proper range use,
reseeding and the eradication of noxious growth on grazing lands, all within
the limits of an individual farm or ranch and subject to the conditions the
supervisors deem necessary.
4.Acquire, by purchase, exchange, lease or
otherwise, any property, real or personal, or rights or interest in any
property, maintain, administer and improve any properties acquired, receive
income from any property or right or interest in property and expend it in
carrying out the purposes of this chapter, and sell, lease or otherwise dispose
of any property or interest in property in furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter.
5.Make available, on the terms it prescribes to
landowners within the district, agricultural and engineering machinery and
equipment, fertilizer, seed and other material or equipment as will assist the
landowners to carry on operations on their lands for the purposes and programs
authorized by this chapter.
6.Develop, publish and bring to the attention of
landowners within the district comprehensive plans for the conservation of soil
and water resources within the district that specify in such detail as may be
feasible the acts, procedures, performances and avoidances necessary or
desirable for the effectuation of the plans.
7.Apply for, receive and spend monies from the
Arizona water protection fund pursuant to title 45, chapter 12 to be used in
individual districts or in cooperation with other districts, persons, cities,
towns, counties, special districts and Indian communities for projects
consistent with title 45, chapter 12.
8.Employ agents, engineers, attorneys or other
employees not readily available from existing state agencies.
9.Sue and be sued in the name of the district, have
a seal, which shall be judicially noticed, have perpetual succession unless
terminated as provided in this chapter, make and execute contracts and other
instruments necessary or convenient to the exercise of its powers and make,
amend and repeal rules not inconsistent with this chapter to carry into effect
its purposes and powers.
10.Accept donations, gifts and contributions in
money, services, materials or otherwise, and use or expend them in carrying on
its operations.
11.Organize and establish an education center to increase the knowledge of natural
resources in this state through the following methods: 
(a)Offering technical guidance and
training to agricultural producers.
(b)Publishing scholarly materials.
(c)Providing educational and
training opportunities, both inside and outside of the district, for
supervisors and district cooperators.
(d)Conducting or sponsoring
scientific studies that affect natural resources in this state. 
B.No A provision of law with
respect to the acquisition, operation or disposition of property by other
public bodies shall not be
applicable to a district organized under this chapter unless specifically
stated therein.
C.After the formation of any district under this
chapter, all participation thereunder shall be voluntary, notwithstanding any
provision of this chapter to the contrary.
D.A district may send to the Arizona water
protection fund commission established by title 45, chapter 12 written
recommendations for geographic areas to be emphasized, issues of concern and
measures to implement title 45, chapter 12.A district that sends
written recommendations to the commission shall request information from at
least the following:
1.The director of the department of water resources
and the state land commissioner.
2.The federal and state fish, wildlife, recreation
and natural resource agencies.
3.County and municipal entities.
4.The public.
E.The district shall develop procedures to ensure
adequate participation in the public involvement process prescribed by
subsection D of this section. END_STATUTE

