







REFERENCE TITLE: adult incarceration contracts; cost
  comparison







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1173









Introduced by
Senators
  Farley, Dalessandro, Hobbs: Contreras, Pancrazi





AN ACT

amending section
411609.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to private prisons.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1609.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1609.01.Adult incarceration contracts; criteria; cost comparison
review
A.On publication, any request for proposals shall
be provided to the joint legislative budget committee for its review.
B.To be considered for an award of a contract, the
proposer must demonstrate that it has:
1.The qualifications, operations and management
experience and experienced personnel necessary to carry out the terms of the
contract.
2.The ability to comply with applicable
correctional standards and any specific court order, if required.
3.A demonstrated history of successful operation
and management of other secure facilities.
C.The proposer of a contract for correctional
services must agree that this state may cancel the contract at any time after
the first year of operation, without penalty to this state, on giving ninety
days' written notice.
D.A contract may provide for annual contract price
or cost adjustments, except that any adjustments may be made only once each
year effective on the anniversary of the effective date of the
contract.If any adjustment is made pursuant to the terms of the
contract, it shall be applied to the total payments made to the contractor for
the previous contract year and shall not exceed the per cent percent of change in the average consumer price index as
published by the United States department of labor, bureau of labor statistics
between that figure for the latest calendar year and the next previous calendar
year.
E.Any price or cost adjustments to a contract
different than those authorized in subsection D of this section may be made
only if the legislature specifically authorizes the adjustments and
appropriates monies for that purpose, if required.
F.An award of a contract shall not be made unless
an acceptable proposal is received pursuant to any request for
proposals.For the purposes of this subsection, "acceptable
proposal" means a proposal that substantially meets all of the
requirements or conditions set forth in this section and that meets all of the
requirements in the request for proposals.
G.A proposal shall not be accepted unless the
proposal offers cost savings to this state.Cost savings shall be determined based on the standard cost
comparison model for privatization established by the director.
H.A proposal shall not be accepted unless the
proposal offers a level and quality of services that are at least functionally
equal to those that would be provided by this state.
I.Notwithstanding section 412546, a contract
to provide correctional services as described in this section may be for an
initial period of not more than ten years.
J.The initial contract may include an option to
renew for two subsequent renewal periods of not more than five years each.
K.A contract for correctional services described in
this section shall not be entered into unless the following requirements are
met:
1.The contractor provides audited financial
statements for the previous five years, or for each of the years the contractor
has been in operation, if fewer than five years, and provides other financial
information as requested.
2.The contractor provides an adequate plan of
insurance, specifically including coverage or insurance for civil rights claims
and liabilities as approved by the risk management division of the department
of administration.
3.The contractor agrees to be liable for the costs
of any emergency, public safety or security services provided to the contractor
by the state or any political subdivision of the state and to reimburse the
state or any political subdivision of the state for the cost of any such
services.
L.The sovereign immunity of this state does not
apply to the contractor.Neither the contractor nor the insurer of
the contractor may plead the defense of sovereign immunity in any action
arising out of the performance of the contract.
M.A contract for correctional services shall not
authorize, allow or imply a delegation of authority or responsibility to a
prison contractor for any of the following:
1.Developing and implementing procedures for
calculating inmate release dates.
2.Developing and implementing procedures for
calculating and awarding sentence credits.
3.Approving the type of work inmates may perform
and the wages or sentence credits that may be given to inmates engaging in the
work.
4.Granting, denying or revoking sentence credits,
placing an inmate under less restrictive custody or more restrictive custody or
taking any disciplinary actions.
N.The
performance of the contractor shall be compared to the performance of this
state in operating similar facilities, as provided in this
section.The department shall conduct a biennial comparison of the
services provided by the contractor to compare private versus public provision
of services.The comparison of services shall be based on
professional correctional standards specified by the director and incorporated
into the contract and shall be used to determine if the contractor is providing
at least the same quality of services as this state at a lower cost or if the
contractor is providing services superior in quality to those provided by this
state at essentially the same cost.In conducting the comparison of
services the director shall consider:
1.Security.
2.Inmate
management and control.
3.Inmate
programs and services.
4.Facility
safety and sanitation.
5.Administration.
6.Food
service.
7.Personnel
practices and training.
8.Inmate
health services.
9.Inmate
discipline.
10.Inmate
recidivism rates.
11.Other
matters relating to services as determined by the director.
O.The
director shall conduct a cost comparison of executed privatization contracts
once every five years for each contract.The director shall provide
the most recent service comparison and cost comparison for contractors who
exclusively contract with the department to the joint legislative budget
committee for its review. END_STATUTE

