







REFERENCE TITLE: CORP; reverse deferred retirement option
  







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1160









Introduced by
Senator
  Smith; Representatives Borrelli, Cardenas, Coleman: Senators Begay, Shooter;
  Representatives Larkin, Lawrence, Shope





AN ACT

Amending section
38885.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the corrections officer
retirement plan.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-885.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-885.01.Reverse deferred retirement option plan; purpose
A.A reverse deferred retirement option plan is established.
The purpose of the reverse deferred retirement option plan is to add
flexibility to the plan and to provide members who elect to participate in the
reverse deferred retirement option plan access to a lump sum benefit in
addition to their normal monthly retirement benefit on actual retirement.
B.Until June
30, 2016, The board shall offer the reverse deferred retirement
option plan to members on a voluntary basis as an alternative method of benefit
accrual under the plan.
C.Any member who is eligible for a normal pension
pursuant to section 38885, who is not awarded an accidental, ordinary or
total and permanent disability pension and who has at least twentyfour
years of credited service, or in the case of a dispatcher, who has at least
twentyfive years of credited service, is eligible to participate in the
reverse deferred retirement option plan.
D.A member who elects to participate in the reverse
deferred retirement option plan shall voluntarily and irrevocably:
1.Designate a reverse deferred retirement option
plan date that is the first day of the calendar month immediately following a
member's completion of twentyfour years of credited service or a date
not more than sixty consecutive months before the date the member elects to
participate in the reverse deferred retirement option plan, whichever is later.
2.Agree to terminate employment on the date the
member elects to participate in the reverse deferred retirement option plan.
3.Receive benefits from the plan on termination of
employment at the same time and in the same manner as otherwise prescribed in
this article using the factors of credited service and average monthly salary
in effect on the reverse deferred retirement option plan date.
E.On election, a reverse deferred retirement option
plan participation account is established within the plan on behalf of each
reverse deferred retirement option plan participant. All benefits accrued
pursuant to this article shall be accounted for in the reverse deferred
retirement option plan participation account. A reverse deferred retirement
option plan participant does not have a claim on the assets of the plan with
respect to the member's reverse deferred retirement option plan participation
account and assets shall not be set aside for any reverse deferred retirement
option plan participant that are separate from all other system assets.
F.All amounts credited to a member's reverse
deferred retirement option plan participation account are fully vested.
G.A member's reverse deferred retirement option
plan participation account shall be credited with the following:
1.An amount that is credited as though accrued
monthly from the reverse deferred retirement option plan date to the date the
member elected to participate in the reverse deferred retirement option plan
and that is computed in the same manner as a normal retirement benefit using
the factors of credited service and average monthly salary in effect on the
reverse deferred retirement option plan date.
2.An amount that is credited as though accrued
monthly and that represents interest at a rate equal to the yield on a five
year treasury note as of the first day of the month as published by the federal
reserve board.
H.Employee and employer contributions pursuant to
section 38891 that are deposited during the period of the reverse
deferred retirement option plan are not eligible to be refunded to the employer
or member.
I.The participant is not entitled to receive any
amount prescribed by section 38905 or 38906 during the reverse
deferred retirement option plan participation period.
J.The form of payment shall be a lump sum
distribution. The member or the member's beneficiary may make a direct
rollover of the lump sum distribution to an eligible retirement plan under the
same rules specified in section 38884, subsections G, H and I.
K.The reverse deferred retirement option plan shall
not jeopardize in any way the tax qualified status of the plan under the rules
of the internal revenue service. The board may adopt additional provisions to
the extent necessary or appropriate for the reverse deferred retirement option
plan to comply with applicable federal laws or rules.
L.This
section is repealed from and after June 30, 2016. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

