







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; desegregation funding;
  phase-down







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1125









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

amending section
15910, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-910.School district budgets; excess utility costs;
desegregation costs; tuition costs for bond issues; costs for registering
warrants; report
A.The governing board may budget for the district's
excess utility costs which are specifically exempt from the district's revenue
control limit. If approved by the qualified electors voting at a statewide
general election, the exemption from the revenue control limit under this
subsection expires at the end of the 20082009 budget
year.The uniform system of financial records shall specify
expenditure items allowable as excess utility costs, which are limited to
direct operational costs of heating, cooling, water and electricity, telephone
communications and sanitation fees.The department of education and the
auditor general shall include in the maintenance and operation section of the
budget format, as provided in section 15903, a separate line for utility
expenditures and a special excess utility cost category.The special
excess utility cost category shall contain budgeted expenditures for excess
utility costs, determined as follows:
1.Determine the lesser of the total budgeted or
total actual utility expenditures for fiscal year 19841985.
2.Multiply the amount in paragraph 1 of this
subsection by the total percentage increase or decrease in the revenue control
limit and the capital outlay revenue limit for the budget year over the revenue
control limit and the capital outlay revenue limit for fiscal year 19841985
excluding monies available from a career
ladder program or a teacher compensation program provided for in
section 15952.
3.The sum of the amounts in paragraphs 1 and 2 of
this subsection is the amount budgeted in the utility expenditure line.
4.Additional expenditures for utilities are
budgeted in the excess utility cost category.
B.The governing board shall apply the same
percentage increase or decrease allowed in the revenue control limit and the
capital outlay revenue limit as provided in section 15905, subsection E
or section 15948 to the utility expenditure line of the budget.
C.The governing board may expend from the excess
utility cost category only after it has expended for utility purposes the full
amount budgeted in the utility expenditure line of the budget.
D.The governing board, after notice is given and a
public meeting is held as provided in section 15905, subsection D, may
revise at any time before May 15 the amount budgeted in the excess utility cost
category for the current year.Not later than May 18, the budget as
revised shall be submitted electronically to the superintendent of public
instruction.
E.If the revised excess utility cost category
results in an expenditure of monies in excess of school district revenues for
the current year, the county school superintendent shall include within the
revenue estimate for the budget year monies necessary to meet the liabilities
incurred by the school district in the current year in excess of revenues
received for the current year.
F.If a school district receives a refund of utility
expenditures or a rebate on energy saving devices or services, the refund or
rebate shall be applied against utility expenditures for the current year as a
reduction of the expenditures, except that the reduction of expenditures shall not
exceed the amount of actual utility expenditures.
G.The governing board may budget for expenses of
complying with or continuing to implement activities which were required or
permitted by a court order of desegregation or administrative agreement with
the United States department of education office for civil rights directed
toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination which are
specifically exempt in whole or in part from the revenue control limit and
district additional assistance. This exemption applies only to expenses
incurred for activities which are begun before the termination of the court
order or administrative agreement. If a district is levying a primary property
tax on February 23, 2006 and using those monies to administer an English
language learner program to remedy alleged or proven discrimination under title
VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States Code section 2000d), the
district may spend those monies to remedy a violation of the equal education
act of 1974 (20 United States Code section 1703(f)).Nothing in this
subsection allows a school district to levy a primary property tax for
violations of the equal education act of 1974 (20 United States Code section
1703(f)) in the absence of an alleged or proven discrimination under title VI
of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States Code section 2000d).
H.If a governing board chooses to budget monies
outside of the revenue control limit as provided in subsection G of this
section, the governing board may do one of the following:
1.Use monies from the maintenance and operation
fund equal to any excess desegregation or compliance expenses beyond the
revenue control limit before June 30 of the current year.
2.Notify the county school superintendent to include
the cost of the excess expenses in the county school superintendent's estimate
of the additional amount needed for the school district from the primary
property tax as provided in section 15991.
3.Employ the provisions of both paragraphs 1 and 2
of this subsection, provided that the total amount transferred and included in
the amount needed from property taxes does not exceed the total amount budgeted
as prescribed in subsection J, paragraph 1 of this section.
I.If a governing board chooses to budget monies
outside of district additional assistance as provided in subsection G of this
section, the governing board may notify the county school superintendent to
include the cost of the excess expenses in the county school superintendent's
estimate of the additional amount needed for the school district from the
primary property tax as provided in section 15991.
J.A governing board using subsections G, H and I of
this section:
1.Shall prepare and employ a separate maintenance
and operation desegregation budget and capital outlay desegregation budget on a
form prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction in conjunction with
the auditor general. The budget format shall be designed to allow a school
district to plan and provide in detail for expenditures to be incurred solely
as a result of compliance with or continuing to implement activities which were
required or permitted by a court order of desegregation or administrative
agreement with the United States department of education office for civil
rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination.
2.Shall prepare as a part of the annual financial
report a detailed report of expenditures incurred solely as a result of
compliance with or continuing to implement activities which were required or
permitted by a court order of desegregation or administrative agreement with
the United States department of education office for civil rights directed
toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination, in a format prescribed
by the auditor general in conjunction with the Arizona department of education
as provided by section 15904.
3.On or before July 15, 2006 and each year
thereafter, shall collect and report data regarding activities related to a
court order of desegregation or an administrative agreement with the United
States department of education office for civil rights directed toward
remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination in a format prescribed by
the Arizona department of education. The department shall compile and submit
copies of the reports to the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker
of the house of representatives and the chairpersons of the education
committees of the senate and the house of representatives. A school district
that becomes subject to a new court order of desegregation or a party to an
administrative agreement with the United States department of education office
for civil rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial
discrimination shall submit these reports on or before July 15 or within ninety
days of the date of the court order or administrative agreement, whichever
occurs first. The Arizona department of education, in consultation with the
auditor general, shall develop reporting requirements to ensure that school
districts submit at least the following information and documentation to the
Arizona department of education beginning in fiscal year 20062007:
(a)A district-wide budget summary and a budget
summary on a school by school basis for each school in the school district that
lists the sources and uses of monies that are designated for desegregation
purposes.
(b)A detailed list of desegregation activities on a
district-wide basis and on a school by school basis for each school in the school
district.
(c)The date that the school district was determined
to be out of compliance with title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42
United States Code section 2000d) and the basis for that determination.
(d)The initial date that the school district began
to levy property taxes to provide funding for desegregation expenses and any
dates that these property tax levies were increased.
(e)If applicable, a current and accurate
description of all magnet type programs that are in operation pursuant to the
court order during the current school year on a district-wide basis and on a
school by school basis. This information shall contain the eligibility and
attendance criteria of each magnet type program, the capacity of each magnet
type program, the ethnic composition goals of each magnet type program, the
actual attending ethnic composition of each magnet type program and the
specific activities offered in each magnet type program.
(f)The number of pupils who participate in
desegregation activities on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district.
(g)A detailed summary of the academic achievement
of pupils on a district-wide basis and on a school by school basis for each
school in the school district.
(h)The number of employees, including teachers and
administrative personnel, on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district that is necessary to conduct
desegregation activities.
(i)The number of employees, including teachers and
administrative personnel, on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district and the number of employees at
school district administrative offices that are funded in whole or in part with
desegregation monies received pursuant to this section.
(j)The amount of monies that is not derived through
a primary or secondary property tax levy and that is budgeted and spent on
desegregation activities on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district.
(k)Verification that the desegregation funding will
supplement and not supplant funding for other academic and extracurricular
activities.
(l)Verification that the desegregation funding is
educationally justifiable.
(m)Any documentation that supports the proposition
that the requested desegregation funding is intended to result in equal
education opportunities for all pupils in the school district.
(n)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used to promote systemic and organizational changes within the school
district.
(o)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used in accordance with the academic standards adopted by the state board of
education pursuant to sections 15701 and 15701.01.
(p)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used to accomplish specific actions to remediate proven discrimination
pursuant to title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States Code
section 2000d) as specified in the court order or administrative agreement.
(q)An evaluation by the school district of the
effectiveness of the school district's desegregation measures.
(r)An estimate of when the school district will be
in compliance with the court order or administrative agreement and a detailed
account of the steps that the school district will take to achieve compliance.
(s)Any other information that the department of
education deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this paragraph.
K.If a school district governing board budgets for
expenses of complying with a court order of desegregation or an administrative
agreement with the United States department of education office for civil
rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination, the
governing board shall ensure that the desegregation expenses will:
1.Be educationally justifiable.
2.Result in equal education opportunities for all
pupils in the school district.
3.Be used to promote systemic and organizational
changes within the school district.
4.Be used in accordance with the academic standards
adopted by the state board of education pursuant to sections 15701 and
15701.01.
5.Be used to accomplish specific actions to
remediate proven discrimination pursuant to title VI of the civil rights act of
1964 (42 United States Code section 2000d) as specified in the court order or
administrative agreement.
6.Be used in accordance with a plan submitted to
the department of education that includes an estimate of the amount of monies
that will be required to bring the school district into compliance with the
court order or administrative agreement and an estimate of when the school
district will be in compliance with the court order or administrative
agreement.
7.Beginning in fiscal year 20092010 and
continuing each fiscal year thereafter, not exceed the amount budgeted by the
school district for desegregation expenses in fiscal year 20082009.
8.BEGINNING
IN FISCAL YEAR 2017-2018, BE ANNUALLY REDUCED FOR FIVE CONSECUTIVE FISCAL YEARS
BY AT LEAST FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE AMOUNT LEVIED IN FISCAL YEAR 2009-2010 TO
PROVIDE FUNDING FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES IF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT HAS AN
EXISTING OR PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION OFFICE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS DIRECTED TOWARD REMEDIATING ALLEGED OR
PROVEN RACIAL DISCRIMINATION AND THE SCHOOL DISTRICT BUDGETS MONIES FOR
DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL LIMIT AS PROVIDED IN
SUBSECTION G OF THIS SECTION. A SCHOOL DISTRICT THAT IS SUBJECT TO THIS
PARAGRAPH MAY NOT BUDGET FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL
LIMIT AFTER FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022.
9.BEGINNING
IN FISCAL YEAR 2017-2018, BE ANNUALLY REDUCED FOR TEN CONSECUTIVE FISCAL YEARS
BY AT LEAST SEVEN PERCENT OF THE AMOUNT LEVIED IN FISCAL YEAR 2009-2010 TO
PROVIDE FUNDING FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES IF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT WAS SUBJECT
TO A PREVIOUS COURT ORDER OF DESEGREGATION AND THE SCHOOL DISTRICT BUDGETS
MONIES FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL LIMIT AS PROVIDED
IN SUBSECTION G OF THIS SECTION. A SCHOOL DISTRICT THAT IS SUBJECT TO THIS
PARAGRAPH MAY NOT BUDGET FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL
LIMIT AFTER FISCAL YEAR 2026-2027.
10.BEGINNING
IN THE FISCAL YEAR FOLLOWING A FEDERAL COURT DECLARING the SCHOOL DISTRICT to
be in UNITARY status, BE ANNUALLY REDUCED FOR TEN CONSECUTIVE FISCAL YEARS BY
AT LEAST SEVEN PERCENT OF THE AMOUNT LEVIED IN FISCAL YEAR 2009-2010 TO PROVIDE
FUNDING FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES IF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT WAS SUBJECT TO A
PREVIOUS COURT ORDER OF DESEGREGATION AND THE SCHOOL DISTRICT BUDGETS MONIES
FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL LIMIT AS PROVIDED IN
SUBSECTION G OF THIS SECTION. A SCHOOL DISTRICT THAT IS SUBJECT TO THIS PARAGRAPH
MAY NOT BUDGET FOR DESEGREGATION EXPENSES OUTSIDE THE REVENUE CONTROL LIMIT
AFTER ten FISCAL YEARS FOLLOWING A FEDERAL COURT DECLARING THE school DISTRICT
to be in UNITARY status.
L.The governing board may budget for the bond
issues portion of the cost of tuition charged the district as provided in
section 15824 for the pupils attending school in another school
district, except that if the district is a common school district not within a
high school district, the district may only include that part of tuition which
is excluded from the revenue control limit and district support level as
provided in section 15951.The bond issues portion of the
cost of tuition charged is specifically exempt from the revenue control limit
of the school district of residence, and the primary property tax rate set to
fund this amount shall not be included in the computation of additional state
aid for education as provided in section 15972, except as provided in
section 15972, subsectionE.The department of education
and the auditor general shall include in the maintenance and operation section
of the budget format, as provided in section 15903, a separate category
for the bond issues portion of the cost of tuition.
M.The governing board may budget for interest
expenses it incurred for registering warrants drawn against a fund of the
school district or net interest expense on tax anticipation notes as prescribed
in section 35465.05, subsection C for the fiscal year preceding the
current year if the county treasurer pooled all school district monies for
investment as provided in section 15996 for the fiscal year preceding
the current year and, in those school districts that receive state aid, the
school districts applied for an apportionment of state aid before the date set
for the apportionment as provided in section 15973 for the fiscal year
preceding the current year. The governing board may budget an amount for
interest expenses for registering warrants or issuing tax anticipation notes
equal to or less than the amount of the warrant interest expense or net
interest expense on tax anticipation notes as prescribed in section 35465.05,
subsection C for the fiscal year preceding the current year as provided in this
subsection which is specifically exempt from the revenue control limit. For
the purposes of this subsection, "state aid" means state aid as
determined in sections 15971 and 15972. END_STATUTE

