







REFERENCE TITLE: tax notes; definitions; technical
  correction







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1187









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

amending section
35-465, arizona revised statutes; relating to tax anticipation notes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 35-465, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-465.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."City" means any city incorporated
under the laws of this state. "City" also includes any
town incorporated under the laws of this state.
2."County" means any county now or
hereafter in existence in the state.
3."Fiscal year" means the period
commencing on July 1 of any year and terminating on June 30 of the next
succeeding year.
4."Governing body" means the body
constituted by law to be the legislative department of the taxing district.
5."Municipal corporation" means any
sanitary district, electrical district, irrigation district, hospital district
or any other similar
municipal corporation which is required by law to adopt a budget.
6."School district" means any school
district now or hereafter in existence in the state.
7."State" means the state of Arizona.
8."Taxes" means ad valorem taxes levied
or to be levied by the taxing district in the fiscal year, sales taxes and
transaction privilege taxes levied by the taxing district and all amounts
returned to the taxing district by the state.The term "Taxes" does do not include ad valorem taxes levied to pay
principal of or interest or redemption charges on any bonded indebtedness of
the taxing district or sales or transaction privilege taxes which by law or
contract must be used by such district for specified purposes, such as motor
vehicle fuel taxes.
9."Taxing district" means any city,
county, school district or municipal corporation having the power to levy ad
valorem taxes.
10."Treasurer" means the treasurer of the
taxing district or the ex officio tax collector of the taxing district. END_STATUTE

