







REFERENCE TITLE: service animals; abuse; prohibited
  ownership







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1167









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Miranda; Representative Andrade: Senators Allen S, Hobbs, Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
132910, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 29, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 13-2910.10; amending section 133601,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to animal cruelty.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.Cruelty to animals; interference with working or service
animal; classification; definitions
A.A person commits cruelty to animals if the person
does any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly subjects
any animal under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or
abandonment.
2.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly fails to
provide medical attention necessary to prevent protracted suffering to any
animal under the person's custody or control.
3.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly inflicts
unnecessary physical injury to any animal.
4.Recklessly subjects any animal to cruel
mistreatment.
5.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly kills any
animal under the custody or control of another person without either legal
privilege or consent of the owner.
6.Recklessly interferes with, kills or harms a
working or service animal
without either legal privilege or consent of the owner.
7.recklessly
kills or harms a service animal.
7.8.Intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly leaves an animal unattended and confined in a motor
vehicle and physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result.
8.9.Intentionally or
knowingly subjects any animal under the person's custody or control to cruel
neglect or abandonment that results in serious physical injury to the animal.
9.10.Intentionally or
knowingly subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment.
10.11.Intentionally or
knowingly interferes with, kills or harms a working or service animal without either legal
privilege or consent of the owner.
12.Intentionally
or knowingly interferes with, kills or harms a service animal.
11.13.Intentionally or
knowingly allows any dog that is under the person's custody or control to
interfere with, kill or cause physical injury to a service animal.
12.14.Recklessly
allows any dog that is under the person's custody or control to interfere with,
kill or cause physical injury to a service animal.
13.15.Intentionally or
knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over a service animal with the
intent to deprive the service animal handler of the service animal.
B.It is a defense to
subsection A of this section if:
1.Any person exposes
poison to be taken by a dog that has killed or wounded livestock or poison to
be taken by predatory animals on premises owned, leased or controlled by the
person for the purpose of protecting the person or the person's livestock or
poultry, the treated property is kept posted by the person who authorized or
performed the treatment until the poison has been removed and the poison is
removed by the person exposing the poison after the threat to the person or the
person's livestock or poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall
provide adequate warning to persons who enter the property by the point or
points of normal entry. The warning notice that is posted shall be readable at
a distance of fifty feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall
state the word "danger" or "warning".
2.Any person uses poisons in and immediately around
buildings owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
controlling wild and domestic rodents as otherwise allowed by the laws of the
state, excluding any furbearing animals as defined in section 17101.
C.This section does not prohibit or restrict:
1.The taking of wildlife or other activities
permitted by or pursuant to title 17.
2.Activities permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
3.Activities regulated by the Arizona game and fish
department or the Arizona department of agriculture.
D.A peace officer, animal control enforcement agent
or animal control enforcement deputy may use reasonable force to open a vehicle
to rescue an animal if the animal is left in the vehicle as prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 7 8 of this section.
E.A person who is convicted of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 6,
or 10 7, 11 or 12 of this section is liable as
follows unless the person who is
convicted is the owner of the service animal:
1.If the working or service animal was killed or
disabled, to the owner or agency that owns the working or service animal and
that employs the handler or to the owner or handler for the replacement and
training costs of the working or service animal and for any veterinary bills.
2.To the owner or agency that owns a working or
service animal for the salary of the handler for the period of time that the
handler's services are lost to the owner or agency.
3.To the owner for the owner's contractual losses
with the agency.
F.An incorporated city or town or a county may adopt
an ordinance with misdemeanor provisions at least as stringent as the
misdemeanor provisions of this section, except that any ordinance adopted shall
not prohibit or restrict any activity involving a dog, whether the dog is
restrained or not, if the activity is directly related to the business of
shepherding or herding livestock and the activity is necessary for the safety
of a human, the dog or livestock or is permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
G.A person who violates subsection A, paragraph 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 12
8 or 14 of this section
is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A person who violates subsection A,
paragraph 8, 7, 9, 10, 11, or
12, 13 or 15 of this section is guilty of a class 6
felony.
H.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Animal"
means a mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian.
2."Cruel mistreatment" means to torture
or otherwise inflict unnecessary serious physical injury on an animal or to
kill an animal in a manner that causes protracted suffering to the animal.
3."Cruel neglect" means to fail to
provide an animal with necessary food, water or shelter.
4."Handler" means a law enforcement
officer or any other person who has successfully completed a course of training
prescribed by the person's agency or the service animal owner and who used a
specially trained animal under the direction of the person's agency or the
service animal owner.
5."Service animal" means an animal that
has completed a formal training program, that assists its owner in one or more
daily living tasks that are associated with a productive lifestyle and that is
trained to not pose a danger to the health and safety of the general public.
6."Working animal" means a horse or dog
that is used by a law enforcement agency, that is specially trained for law
enforcement work and that is under the control of a handler. END_STATUTE
Sec. 2.Title 13,
chapter 29, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-2910.10,
to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.10.Prohibition on service animal ownership; ownership
transfer; application to restore right of ownership; classification
A.A person who is convicted of any of the
following offenses may not adopt, foster, own or otherwise have the care or
custody of any service animal in the person's household:
1.An intentional or knowing violation of section
13-2910, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 3.
2.A violation of section 13-2910, subsection A,
paragraph 7 or 12 or section 132910.01 or 13-2910.03.
3.A second or subsequent violation of section
13-2910.09.
B.Within ninety days after a person is
prohibited from possessing an animal pursuant to this section, the person shall
transfer all animals in the person's care or custody to another person who is
not in the person's household.
C.On proper application and not less than two
years after the person is convicted of a violation of an offense listed in
subsection A of this section, the person may have the person's right to possess
a service animal restored unless the person was convicted of a second or
subsequent violation of an offense listed in subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of
this section or a third or subsequent violation of section 13-2910.09. Any
time spent on absconder status while on probation, on escape status or
incarcerated is excluded in calculating the two years. The person may apply to
the judge, justice of the peace or magistrate who pronounced sentence or
imposed probation or the judge's, justice's of the peace or magistrate's
successor in office. The court shall serve a copy of the application on the
prosecutor.
D.A person who violates this section is guilty
of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 13-3601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3601.Domestic violence; definition; classification; sentencing
option; arrest and procedure for violation; weapon seizure
A."Domestic violence"
means any act that is a dangerous crime against children as defined in section
13705 or an offense prescribed in section 131102, 131103,
131104, 131105, 131201, 131202, 131203, 131204,
131302, 131303, 131304, 131406, 131425, 131502,
131503, 131504, 131602 or 132810, section 132904,
subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3 or 6, section 132910, subsection A,
paragraph 8 or 9 or 10, section 13-2915,
subsection A, paragraph 3 or section 132916, 132921, 132921.01,
132923, 133019, 133601.02 or 133623, if any of the
following applies:
1.The relationship
between the victim and the defendant is one of marriage or former marriage or
of persons residing or having resided in the same household.
2.The victim and the
defendant have a child in common.
3.The victim or the
defendant is pregnant by the other party.
4.The victim is related
to the defendant or the defendant's spouse by blood or court order as a parent,
grandparent, child, grandchild, brother or sister or by marriage as a parentinlaw,
grandparentinlaw, stepparent, stepgrandparent, stepchild,
stepgrandchild, brotherinlaw or sisterinlaw.
5.The victim is a child
who resides or has resided in the same household as the defendant and is
related by blood to a former spouse of the defendant or to a person who resides
or who has resided in the same household as the defendant.
6.The relationship
between the victim and the defendant is currently or was previously a romantic
or sexual relationship. The following factors may be considered in determining
whether the relationship between the victim and the defendant is currently or
was previously a romantic or sexual relationship:
(a)The type of
relationship.
(b)The length of the
relationship.
(c)The frequency of the
interaction between the victim and the defendant.
(d)If the relationship
has terminated, the length of time since the termination.
B.A peace officer, with
or without a warrant, may arrest a person if the officer has probable cause to
believe that domestic violence has been committed and the officer has probable
cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed the offense,
whether the offense is a felony or a misdemeanor and whether the offense was
committed within or without the presence of the peace officer.In
cases of domestic violence involving the infliction of physical injury or
involving the discharge, use or threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or
dangerous instrument, the peace officer shall arrest a person who is at least
fifteen years of age, with or without a warrant, if the officer has probable
cause to believe that the offense has been committed and the officer has
probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed the
offense, whether the offense was committed within or without the presence of
the peace officer, unless the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
the circumstances at the time are such that the victim will be protected from
further injury.Failure to make an arrest does not give rise to civil
liability except pursuant to section 12820.02.In order to
arrest both parties, the peace officer shall have probable cause to believe
that both parties independently have committed an act of domestic
violence.An act of selfdefense that is justified under
chapter 4 of this title is not deemed to be an act of domestic
violence.The release procedures available under section 133883,
subsection A, paragraph 4 and section 133903 are not applicable to
arrests made pursuant to this subsection.
C.A peace officer may
question the persons who are present to determine if a firearm is present on
the premises.On learning or observing that a firearm is present on
the premises, the peace officer may temporarily seize the firearm if the
firearm is in plain view or was found pursuant to a consent to search and if
the officer reasonably believes that the firearm would expose the victim or
another person in the household to a risk of serious bodily injury or
death.A firearm that is owned or possessed by the victim shall not
be seized unless there is probable cause to believe that both parties
independently have committed an act of domestic violence.
D.If a firearm is seized
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the peace officer shall give the
owner or possessor of the firearm a receipt for each seized
firearm.The receipt shall indicate the identification or serial
number or other identifying characteristic of each seized firearm. Each seized
firearm shall be held for at least seventytwo hours by the law
enforcement agency that seized the firearm.
E.If a firearm is seized
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the victim shall be notified by a
peace officer before the firearm is released from temporary custody.
F.If there is reasonable
cause to believe that returning a firearm to the owner or possessor may
endanger the victim, the person who reported the assault or threat or another
person in the household, the prosecutor shall file a notice of intent to retain
the firearm in the appropriate superior, justice or municipal
court.The prosecutor shall serve notice on the owner or possessor
of the firearm by certified mail.The notice shall state that the
firearm will be retained for not more than six months following the date of
seizure.On receipt of the notice, the owner or possessor may
request a hearing for the return of the firearm, to dispute the grounds for
seizure or to request an earlier return date.The court shall hold
the hearing within ten days after receiving the owner's or possessor's request
for a hearing. At the hearing, unless the court determines that the return of
the firearm may endanger the victim, the person who reported the assault or
threat or another person in the household, the court shall order the return of
the firearm to the owner or possessor.
G.A peace officer is not
liable for any act or omission in the good faith exercise of the officer's
duties under subsections C, D, E and F of this section.
H.Each indictment,
information, complaint, summons or warrant that is issued and that involves
domestic violence shall state that the offense involved domestic violence and
shall be designated by the letters DV.A domestic violence charge
shall not be dismissed or a domestic violence conviction shall not be set aside
for failure to comply with this subsection.
I.A person who is
arrested pursuant to subsection B of this section may be released from custody
in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or any other
applicable statute.Any order for release, with or without an
appearance bond, shall include pretrial release conditions that are necessary
to provide for the protection of the alleged victim and other specifically
designated persons and may provide for additional conditions that the court
deems appropriate, including participation in any counseling programs available
to the defendant.
J.When a peace officer
responds to a call alleging that domestic violence has been or may be
committed, the officer shall inform in writing any alleged or potential victim
of the procedures and resources available for the protection of the victim
including:
1.An order of protection
pursuant to section 133602, an injunction pursuant to section 25315
and an injunction against harassment pursuant to section 121809.
2.The emergency telephone
number for the local police agency.
3.Telephone numbers for
emergency services in the local community.
4.Websites for local
resources related to domestic violence.
K.A peace officer is not
civilly liable for noncompliance with subsection J of this section.
L.If a person is
convicted of an offense involving domestic violence and the victim was pregnant
at the time of the commission of the offense, at the time of sentencing the
court shall take into consideration the fact that the victim was pregnant and
may increase the sentence.
M.An offense that is
included in domestic violence carries the classification prescribed in the
section of this title in which the offense is classified.If the
defendant committed a felony offense listed in subsection A of this section
against a pregnant victim and knew that the victim was pregnant or if the
defendant committed a felony offense causing physical injury to a pregnant
victim and knew that the victim was pregnant, the maximum sentence otherwise
authorized for that violation shall be increased by up to two years.
N.When a peace officer responds to a call alleging
that domestic violence has been or may be committed, the officer shall
determine if a minor is present. If a minor is present, the peace officer
shall conduct a child welfare check to determine if the child is safe and if
the child might be a victim of domestic violence or child abuse. END_STATUTE

