







REFERENCE TITLE: medical examiner; jurisdiction; death
  reporting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1104









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending sections
11593, 11594 and 36325, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to the county medical examiner.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-593, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-593.Reporting of certain deaths; failure to report;
classification
A.Any person having knowledge of the death of a
human being including a fetal death shall promptly notify the nearest peace
officer of all information in the person's possession regarding the death and
the circumstances surrounding it under any of the following circumstances:
1.Death when not under the current care of a health
care provider as defined pursuant to section 36301.
2.Death resulting from violence.
3.Unexpected
or unexplained death occurring suddenly when in apparent good health.
4.Death occurring
in a prison of a person
in custody.
5.Death of a
prisoner.
5.Unexpected
or unexplained death of an infant or child.
6.Death occurring in a suspicious, unusual or unnatural nonnatural manner, including death as a result of anesthetic or surgical
procedures.
7.Death from
disease or an accident believed to be related to the deceased's occupation or
employment.
8.Death
believed to present a public health hazard.
9.Death
occurring during, in association with or as a result of anesthetic or surgical
procedures.
7.Death
suspected to be caused by a previously unreported or undiagnosed disease that
constitutes a threat to public safety.
10.8.Death involving
unidentifiable bodies.
B.The peace officer shall promptly notify the
county medical examiner or alternate medical examiner and, except in deaths occurring during, in association with or
as a result of surgical or anesthetic procedures from natural diseases, shall
promptly make or cause to be made an investigation of the facts
and circumstances surrounding the death and report the results to the medical
examiner or alternate medical examiner.If there is no county
medical examiner or alternate medical examiner appointed and serving within the
county, the county sheriff shall be notified by the peace officer and the
sheriff shall in turn notify and secure a licensed physician having the
qualifications of an alternate medical examiner to perform the death investigation or to arrange for an autopsy assume the powers and duties prescribed by
section 11-594.
C.Every person who knows of the existence of a body
where death occurred as specified in subsection A of this section and who
knowingly fails to notify the nearest peace officer as soon as possible unless
the person has good reason to believe that notice has already been given is
guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
D.If the deceased was under treatment for an
accident or illness by prayer or spiritual means alone, in accordance with the
tenets and practices of a wellrecognized church or religious
denomination, and death occurred without a physician or nurse practitioner in
attendance, the person who has knowledge of the death shall report all
information in the person's possession regarding the death and circumstances
surrounding it directly to the county medical examiner or the alternate medical
examiner who may waive an external examination or autopsy if the county medical
examiner or alternate medical examiner is satisfied that the death of the
person resulted from natural causes.
E.Each county shall provide to the department of
public safety fingerprints of all deceased persons for whom the circumstances
of death require an external examination or autopsy and whose deaths are
required to be investigated pursuant to this section. These fingerprints shall
be on a form provided by the department of public safety and shall be
accompanied by any other information regarding the physical description and the
date and place of death the department of public safety requires. Fingerprints
taken pursuant to this section shall be used only for the purpose of purging
criminal history files.All information and data in the department
of public safety that are furnished in compliance with this section are
confidential and may be disclosed only on written approval of the director of
the department of public safety to the juvenile court, social agencies and
public health and law enforcement agencies licensed or regulated by this state.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-594, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-594.Powers and duties of county medical examiner
A.The county medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner shall direct a death investigation, shall determine whether an external examination or autopsy
is required and on a
determination that the circumstances of the death provide jurisdiction pursuant
to section 11593, subsection A shall:
1.Take charge of the dead body.
2.Determine
if an autopsy is required.
2.3.Certify
to the cause and manner of death following completion of the death
investigation, unless the medical
examiner or alternate medical examiner determines there is no jurisdiction
pursuant to section 11593, reduce the findings to writing
and promptly make a full report on forms prescribed for that purpose.
3.4.Have
subpoena authority for all documents, records and papers deemed useful in the
death investigation.
4.5.Execute
a death certificate provided by the state registrar of vital statistics
indicating the cause and the manner of death for those bodies for which a death
investigation has been conducted and jurisdiction is assumed.
5.6.Give
approval for cremation of a dead body after a death investigation and record
the approval on the death certificate.
6.7.Notify
the county attorney or other law enforcement authority when death is found to
be from other than natural nonnatural causes.
7.8.Carry
out the duties specified under section 28-668.
8.9.Carry
out the duties specified under title 36, chapter 7, article3.
9.10.Observe
all policies adopted by the board of supervisors regarding conflicts of
interest and disclosure of noncounty employment.
B.The county medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner may:
1.Assign to a medical death investigator or other
qualified personnel all aspects of a death investigation except the performance
of autopsies.
2.Authorize forensic pathologists to perform
examinations and autopsies. The medical examiner or alternate medical examiner
may authorize medical students or residents and fellows in pathology training
to perform autopsies under the supervision of a licensed physician who is board
certified in anatomic forensic pathology, pursuant to
procedures adopted by the county medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner. Authorization and the amount to be paid by the county for pathology
services are subject to approval of the board of supervisors.
3.Delegate any power, duty or function whether
ministerial or discretionary vested by this chapter in the medical examiner or
alternate medical examiner to a person meeting the qualifications prescribed in
this chapter who is employed by or who has contracted with the county to
provide death investigation services.The medical examiner or
alternate medical examiner shall be responsible for the official acts of the
person designated pursuant to this section and shall act under the name and
authority of the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner.
4.Authorize the taking of organs and tissues as
they prove to be usable for transplants, other treatment, therapy, education or
research if all of the requirements of title 36, chapter 7, article 3 are
met.The medical examiner or alternate medical examiner shall give
this authorization within a time period that permits a medically viable
donation.
5.Authorize licensed physicians, surgeons or
trained technicians to remove parts of bodies provided they follow an
established protocol approved by the medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner.
6.Limit the removal of organs or tissues for
transplants or other therapy or treatment if, based on a review of available
medical and investigative information within a time that permits a medically
viable donation, the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner makes an
initial determination that their removal would interfere with a medical
examination, autopsy or certification of death.Before making a
final decision to limit the removal of organs, the medical examiner or
alternate medical examiner shall consult with the organ procurement
organization.After the consultation and when the organ procurement
organization provides information that the organ procurement organization
reasonably believes could alter the initial decision and at the request of the
organ procurement organization, the medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner shall conduct a physical examination of the body.If the
medical examiner or alternate medical examiner limits the removal of organs,
the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner shall maintain documentation
of this decision and shall make the documentation available to the organ
procurement organization.
C.A county medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner shall not be held civilly or criminally liable for any acts performed
in good faith pursuant to subsection B, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of this section.
D.If a dispute arises over the findings of the
medical examiner's report, the medical examiner, on an order of the superior
court, shall make available all evidence and documentation to a
court-designated licensed forensic pathologist for review, and the results of
the review shall be reported to the superior court in the county issuing the
order.
E.For providing external examinations and autopsies
pursuant to this section, the medical examiner may charge a fee established by
the board of supervisors pursuant to section 11251.08.
F.The county medical examiner or alternate medical
examiner is entitled to all medical records and related records of a person for
whom the medical examiner is required to certify cause of death. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-325, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-325.Death certificate registration; moving human remains;
immunity
A.Within seven calendar days after receiving
possession of human remains, a funeral establishment or responsible person who
takes possession of the human remains shall:
1.Obtain and complete the information, including
the social security number of the decedent, on the death certificate required
pursuant to this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
2.Provide on the death certificate the name and
address of the person completing the death certificate.
3.Submit the death certificate for registration to
a local registrar, a deputy local registrar or the state registrar. The
funeral establishment or responsible person may submit the death certificate by
electronic means in the format prescribed by the state registrar.
B.Within seventytwo hours after receiving a
death certificate pursuant to this section, a local registrar, a deputy local
registrar or the state registrar shall register a death certificate if it is
accurate and complete and submitted pursuant to this chapter and rules adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
C.Except as
provided in subsection F of this section, if a person dies under any of the
circumstances described in If a county medical examiner or alternate medical examiner determines
that the circumstances of a death provide jurisdiction pursuant to section
11593, subsection A, the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner shall complete
and sign the medical certification of death on a death certificate within
seventytwo hours after the examination, excluding weekends and holidays.
If the medical examiner or alternate
medical examiner cannot determine the cause of death within that
time, the medical examiner or alternate
medical examiner shall enter "pending" for the cause of
death and sign the medical certification of death within seventy-two hours
after the examination, excluding weekends and holidays. 
D.A local registrar, a deputy local registrar or
the state registrar shall register a death certificate if there is a medical
certification of death signed by the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner with a pending
cause of death.
E.Final disposition of human remains with a pending
cause of death shall not occur until the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner releases the
human remains for final disposition.
F.When the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner determines the
cause of death, the medical examiner or
alternate medical examiner shall submit the information to the
local registrar, deputy local registrar or state registrar.
G.If a person under the current care of a health
care provider for an acute or chronic medical condition dies of that condition,
or complications associated with that condition, the health care provider or a
health care provider designated by that provider shall complete and sign the
medical certification of death on a death certificate within seventytwo
hours.If current care has not been provided, the medical examiner or alternate medical examiner shall
complete and sign the medical certification of death on a death certificate
within seventy-two hours after the examination, excluding weekends and
holidays.
H.If a person dies in a hospital, nursing care
institution or hospice inpatient facility of natural causes, the hospital,
nursing care institution or facility shall designate a health care provider to
complete and sign the medical certification of death within seventy-two hours.
I.If a person dies on an Indian reservation in this
state and a county medical examiner or
alternate medical examiner is not available, the tribal law
enforcement authority, acting in an official investigative capacity, may
complete and sign the medical certification of death.
J.If the place of death is unknown, the death is
considered to have occurred in the place where the human remains were found.
K.If a person dies in a moving conveyance, the
death is considered to have occurred in the place where the human remains were
initially removed from the conveyance. In all other cases, the place where
death is pronounced is considered the place where the death occurred.
L.The state registrar shall create and register a
death certificate when the state registrar receives a court order of a
presumptive death. The court order shall contain the following information, if
known:
1.The decedent's name, social security number, date
of birth, date of death, cause of death and location of death.
2.Any other information necessary to complete a
death certificate for a presumptive death.
M.If a murder victim's body is not recovered, a
conviction for the murder is proof of death. The court shall forward a record
of the conviction to the state registrar. The state registrar shall obtain the
personal data regarding the murder victim from information provided by the
court, a family member of the murder victim or another reliable source and
create and register the death certificate.
N.A health care provider who completes and signs a
medical certification of death in good faith pursuant to this section is not
subject to civil liability or professional disciplinary action. END_STATUTE

