







REFERENCE TITLE: property tax exemptions; conforming
  changes.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1158









Introduced by
Senator
  Burges





AN ACT

Amending sections
15-972, 42-11111, 42-11127, 42-11152 and 42-15053, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to property tax exemptions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-972, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-972.State limitation on homeowner property taxes; additional
state aid to school districts; definitions
A.Notwithstanding section 15971, there shall
be additional state aid for education computed for school districts as provided
in subsection B of this section.
B.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
compute such additional state aid for education as follows:
1.For a high school district or for a common school
district within a high school district that does not offer instruction in high
school subjects as provided in section 15447:
(a)Determine the qualifying tax rate pursuant to
section 411276 for the school district.
(b)Determine the following percentage of the
qualifying tax rate determined in subdivision (a) of this paragraph:
(i)Thirtyfive percent through December 31,
2005.
(ii)Thirtysix percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
(iii)Thirtyseven percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
(iv)Thirtyeight percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
(v)Thirtynine percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
(vi)Forty percent beginning from and after December
31, 2009.
(vii)Such further adjustments of the percentage
beginning from and after December 31, 2012 as provided by law.
(c)Select the lesser of the amount determined in
subdivision (b) of this paragraph or forty percent of the primary property tax
rate that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of this section for the
district.
(d)Multiply the rate selected in subdivision (c) of
this paragraph as a rate per one hundred dollars assessed valuation by the
assessed valuation used for primary property taxes of the residential property
in the school district.
2.For a unified school district, for a common
school district not within a high school district or for a common school
district that offers instruction in high school subjects as provided in section
15447:
(a)Determine the qualifying tax rate pursuant to
section 411276 for the school district.
(b)Determine the following percentage of the tax
rate determined in subdivision (a) of this paragraph:
(i)Thirtyfive percent through December 31,
2005.
(ii)Thirtysix percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
(iii)Thirtyseven percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
(iv)Thirtyeight percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
(v)Thirtynine percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
(vi)Forty percent beginning from and after December
31, 2009.
(vii)Such further adjustments of the percentage
beginning from and after December 31, 2012 as provided by law.
(c)Select the lesser of the amount determined in
subdivision (b) of this paragraph or forty percent of the primary property tax
rate that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of this section for the
district.
(d)Multiply the rate selected in subdivision (c) of
this paragraph as a rate per one hundred dollars assessed valuation by the
assessed valuation used for primary property taxes of the residential property
in the district.
C.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than the Friday following the
third Monday in August of each year the amount by school district of additional
state aid for education and the data used for computing the amount as provided
in subsection B of this section.The department of revenue shall
verify all of the amounts and report to the county board of supervisors not
later than August 30 of each year the property tax rate or rates that shall be
used for property tax reduction as provided in subsection E of this section.
D.The board of supervisors shall reduce the
property tax rate or rates that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of
this section by the school district or districts on the assessed valuation used
for primary property taxes of the residential property in the school district
or districts by the rate or rates selected in subsection B, paragraph 1,
subdivision (c) and paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this section. The excess
of the reduction in property taxes for a parcel of property resulting from the
reduction in the property tax rate pursuant to this subsection over the amounts
listed in this subsection shall be deducted from the amount of additional state
aid for education. The reduction in property taxes on a parcel of property
resulting from the reduction in the property tax rate pursuant to this
subsection shall not exceed the following amounts except as provided in
subsection I of this section:
1.Five hundred dollars through December 31, 2005.
2.Five hundred twenty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
3.Five hundred forty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
4.Five hundred sixty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
5.Five hundred eighty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
6.Six hundred dollars beginning from and after
December 31, 2009.
E.Prior to the levying of taxes for school purposes
the board of supervisors shall determine whether the total primary property
taxes to be levied for all taxing jurisdictions on each parcel of residential
property, in lieu of the provisions of this subsection, violate article IX,
section 18, Constitution of Arizona. For those properties that qualify for
property tax exemptions pursuant to article IX, sections section 2, 2.1 and
2.2, Constitution of Arizona, eligibility for the credit is
determined on the basis of the limited property value that corresponds to the
taxable assessed value after reduction for the applicable exemption. If the
board of supervisors determines that such a situation exists, the board shall
apply a credit against the primary property taxes due from each such parcel in
the amount in excess of article IX, section 18, Constitution of Arizona. Such
excess amounts shall also be additional state aid for education for the school
district or districts in which such parcel of property is located.
F.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than September 5 of each year the
amount by school district of additional state aid for education and the data
used for computing the amount as provided in subsection B of this
section.The department of revenue shall verify all of the amounts
and report to the board of supervisors not later than September 10 of each year
the property tax rate that shall be used for property tax reduction as provided
in subsection E of this section.
G.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than September 30 of each year in
writing the following:
1.The data processing specifications used in the
calculations provided for in subsections B and E of this section.
2.At a minimum, copies of two actual tax bills for
residential property for each distinct tax area.
H.The department of revenue shall report to the
state board of education not later than October 12 of each year the amount by
school district of additional state aid for education as provided in this
section. The additional state aid for education provided in this section shall
be apportioned as provided in section 15973.
I.If a parcel of property is owned by a cooperative
apartment corporation or is owned by the tenants of a cooperative apartment
corporation as tenants in common, the reduction in the property taxes
prescribed in subsection D of this section shall not exceed the amounts listed
in subsection D of this section for each owneroccupied housing unit on
the property. The assessed value used for determining the reduction in taxes
for the property is equal to the total assessed value of the property times the
ratio of the number of owneroccupied housing units to the total number
of housing units on the property.For the purposes of this
subsection, "cooperative apartment corporation" means a corporation:
1.Having only one class of outstanding stock.
2.Of which all
of the stockholders of which
are entitled, solely by reason of their ownership of stock in the corporation,
to occupy for dwelling purposes apartments in a building owned or leased by
such corporation and who
are not entitled, either conditionally or unconditionally, except upon on a complete or partial liquidation of the
corporation, to receive any distribution not out of earnings and profits of the
corporation.
3.Of which eighty
percent or more of the gross income of
which is derived from tenantstockholders. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "gross income" means gross income as
defined by the United States internal revenue code, as defined in section 43105.
J.The total amount of state monies that may be
spent in any fiscal year for state aid for education in this section shall not
exceed the amount appropriated or authorized by section 35173 for that
purpose. This section shall not be construed to impose a duty on an officer,
agent or employee of this state to discharge a responsibility or to create any
right in a person or group if the discharge or right would require an
expenditure of state monies in excess of the expenditure authorized by
legislative appropriation for that specific purpose.
K.Notwithstanding subsection E of this section,
beginning in fiscal year 2015-2016, the maximum amount of additional state aid
for education that will be funded by this state pursuant to subsection E of
this section shall be one million dollars per county. For any county with a
school district or districts that collectively would otherwise receive more
than one million dollars
in additional state aid for education pursuant to subsection E of this section,
the property tax oversight commission established by section 4217002
shall determine the proportion of the violation of article IX, section 18,
Constitution of Arizona, that is attributable to each taxing jurisdiction
within the affected school district or districts.Based on those
proportions, the property tax oversight commission shall determine an amount
that each taxing jurisdiction within the affected school district or districts
shall transfer to the affected school district or districts during the fiscal
year in order to compensate the affected school district or districts for its
pro rata share of the reduction in additional state aid for education funding
required by this subsection. In determining the proportion of the violation of
article IX, section 18, Constitution of Arizona, that is attributable to each
taxing jurisdiction within the affected school district or districts, the
property tax oversight commission shall assume a proportion of zero for any
taxing jurisdiction that has a tax rate for the fiscal year that is equal to or
less than the tax rate of peer jurisdictions, as determined by the property tax
oversight commission.
L.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Owner"
includes any purchaser under a contract of sale or under a deed of trust.
2."Residential property" includes owneroccupied
real property and improvements to the property and owneroccupied mobile
homes that are used as the owner's primary residence and classified as class
three property pursuant to section 4212003. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-11111, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11111.Exemption for property of widows and widowers and persons
with disabilities
A.The property of widows, and widowers and persons with disabilities who
are residents of this state is exempt from taxation to the extent allowed as provided by article IX, sections section 2, 2.1, 2.2
and 2.3, Constitution of Arizona, and subject to the conditions
and limitations prescribed by this section.
B.Pursuant to article IX,
section 2.3 2, subsection F, Constitution of Arizona, the
exemptions from taxation under this section are allowed in the amount of:
1.Three thousand dollars
if the person's total assessment does not exceed twenty thousand dollars.
2.No exemption if the
person's total assessment exceeds twenty thousand dollars.
C.On or before December
31 of each year, the department shall increase the following amounts based on
the average annual percentage increase, if any, in the GDP price deflator in
the two most recent complete state fiscal years:
1.The total allowable
exemption amount and the total assessment limitation amount under subsection B
of this section.
2.The total income
limitation amounts under subsection E, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section.
For the purposes of
this subsection, "GDP price deflator" means the average of the four
implicit price deflators for the gross domestic product reported by the United
States department of commerce or its successor for the four quarters of the
state fiscal year.
D.For the purpose of
determining the amount of the allowable exemption pursuant to subsection B of
this section, the person's total assessment shall not include the value of any
vehicle that is taxed under title 28, chapter 16, article 3.
E.Pursuant to article IX,
section 2.3 2, subsection F, Constitution of Arizona, to
qualify for this exemption, the total income from all sources of the claimant
and the claimant's spouse and the income from all sources of all of the
claimant's children who resided with the claimant in the claimant's residence
in the year immediately preceding the year for which the claimant applies for
the exemption shall not exceed:
1.Twentyfive
thousand dollars if none of the claimant's children under eighteen years of age
resided with the claimant in the claimant's residence.
2.Thirty thousand dollars
if one or more of the claimant's children residing with the claimant in the
claimant's residence were
either:
(a)Were under eighteen years of age.
(b)Totally and permanently, Had a total and permanent physical or mental disabilities disability, as certified by competent medical
authority as provided by law.
F.For the purposes of
subsection E of this section, "income from all sources" means the sum
of the following, but
excluding the items listed in subsection G of this section:
1.Adjusted gross income
as defined by the department.
2.The amount of capital
gains excluded from adjusted gross income.
3.Nontaxable strike
benefits.
4.Nontaxable interest
that is received from the federal government or any of its instrumentalities.
5.Payments that are
received from a retirement program and paid by:
(a)This state or any of
its political subdivisions.
(b)The United States
through any of its agencies, instrumentalities or programs, except as provided
in subsection G of this section.
6.The gross amount of any
pension or annuity that is not otherwise exempted.
G.Notwithstanding
subsection F of this section, "income from all sources" does not
include monies received from:
1.Cash public assistance
and relief.
2.Railroad retirement
benefits.
3.Payments under the
federal social security act (49 Stat. 620).
4.Payments under the
unemployment insurance laws of this state.
5.Payments from veterans
disability pensions.
6.Workers' compensation
payments.
7."Loss of
time" insurance.
8.Gifts from
nongovernmental sources, surplus foods or other relief in kind supplied by a
governmental agency.
H.A widow, or
widower or a person with a disability shall initially establish eligibility for
exemption under this section by filing an affidavit with the county assessor
under section 4211152.Thereafter, the person is not required
to file an affidavit under section 4211152, but the person or the
person's representative shall annually calculate income from the preceding year
to ensure that the person still qualifies for the exemption and shall notify
the county assessor in writing of any event that disqualifies the widow, or widower or the person with a disability from further
exemption.Regardless of whether the person or representative
notifies the assessor as required by this subsection, the property is subject
to tax as provided by law from the date of disqualification, including
interest, penalties and proceedings for tax delinquencies. Disqualifying events
include:
1.The person's death.
2.The remarriage of a widow or widower.
3.The person's income from all sources exceeding
the limits prescribed by subsection E of this section.
4.The conveyance of title to the property to
another owner.
I.Any dollar amount of exemption that is unused in
a tax year against the limited property value of property and improvements
owned by the individual may be applied for the tax year against the value of
personal property subject to special property taxes including the taxes
collected pursuant to title 5, chapter 3, article 3 and title 28, chapter 16,
article3.
J.An individual is not entitled to property tax
exemptions in the aggregate that exceed the maximum allowed to a widow, or widower or a person with a disability even if the person
is eligible for an exemption in more than one category. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-11127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11127.Exempt personal property
A.Pursuant to article IX, section 2, subsection (6) F, Constitution of Arizona, personal property
that is class two property pursuant to section 4212002, paragraph 2,
subdivision (a) or (b) that is used for agricultural purposes or personal
property that is class one property pursuant to section 4212001 that is
used in a trade or business as described in section 4212001, paragraphs
8 through 11 or 13 is exempt from taxation up to a maximum amount of fifty
thousand dollars of full cash value for each taxpayer.
B.On or before December 31 of each year, the
department shall increase the maximum amount of the exemption for the following
tax year based on the percentage increase, if any, in the employment cost index
for total compensation for private industry workers in the two
most recent complete state fiscal years. For the purposes of this subsection,
"employment cost index" means the average of the employment cost
indices reported by the bureau of labor statistics of the United States
department of labor or its successor for the eight quarters of the two most
recent state fiscal years. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-11152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11152.Affidavit; false statements
A.Except as provided in
sections 4211104, 4211109, 4211110, 4211111 and 4211131
and except for property described in sections 4211125, 4211127,
42-11132 and 4211132.01, a person who claims an exemption from taxation under article IX,
section 2, 2.1 or 2.2,
Constitution of Arizona, shall:
1.When initially claiming
the exemption, appear before the county assessor to make an affidavit as to the
person's eligibility.If a personal appearance before the county
assessor would create a severe hardship, the county assessor may arrange a
mutually satisfactory meeting place to make an affidavit as to the person's
eligibility.
2.When claiming the
exemption in subsequent years, appear before the county assessor or a notary
public to make an affidavit as to the person's eligibility.
3.Fully answer all
questions on the eligibility form or otherwise required by the assessor for
that purpose.
B.At the assessor's
discretion, the assessor may require additional proof of the facts stated by
the person before allowing an exemption.
C.A person who is in the
United States military service and who is absent from this state or who is
confined in a veterans' hospital or another licensed hospital may make the
required affidavit in the presence of any officer who is authorized to
administer oaths on a form obtained from the county assessor.
D.A false statement that is made or sworn to in the
affidavit is perjury. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-15053, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-15053.Duty to report personal property; confidentiality
A.On or before February 1 of each year, the
assessor shall mail a form, notice or demand to each person who owns or has
charge or control of taxable personal property in the state.Each
person shall prepare and deliver to the assessor a correct report of property
on or before April 1 of each year, except for property that is not required to
be reported as provided by subsection C of this section.On written
request and for good cause shown, the assessor may extend for up to thirty days
the time for filing the report.
B.The duty to report taxable property pursuant to
this section applies regardless of whether the person or entity that owns or
has charge or control of the personal property also owns real property in the
county with a value of two hundred dollars or more.
C.The assessor shall not require a report of:
1.The breed, number, age or location of livestock
on hand from individuals, corporations, partnerships or any other business if
the livestock is exempt from taxation pursuant to article IX, section 13,
Constitution of Arizona.
2.The personal property that is class two (P)
property used for agricultural purposes or that is class one, subclasses 8
through 11 and 13 property used in a trade or business that is exempt from
taxation pursuant to article IX, section 2, subsection (6) E,
paragraph 2, Constitution of Arizona.
D.Every assessment made against property subject to
taxation is valid whether or not the form, notice or demand was sent or
received.
E.The department shall prescribe in detail the
contents of property reports, including the specific wording to be used by
county assessors and the method of reporting property.The report
shall not include any question that is not germane to the valuation function.
F.A report that is furnished under this section:
1.Is not open to public inspection, but the report
may be used as evidence in any prosecution brought under section 4215055.
2.May be subject to audit.On completing
an audit or on discovering property that has not been reported, any property
that was found to have escaped taxation is liable for the amount of taxes due
determined under chapter 16, article 6 of this title, plus a penalty equal to
ten per cent percent of that amount. The county treasurer
shall credit monies received as penalties under this paragraph to the county
general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective
unless the Constitution of Arizona is amended by vote of the people at the next
general election to consolidate and reorganize provisions relating to
exemptions from property taxation.

