







REFERENCE TITLE: domestic violence offenders; firearms;
  seizure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016




SB 1128









Introduced by
Senators
  Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Farley, Hobbs, Sherwood: Begay, Contreras,
  Pancrazi, Quezada; Representative Friese





AN ACT

amending sections
133601 and 133602, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to domestic
violence offenders.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3601.Domestic violence; definition; classification; sentencing
option; arrest and procedure for violation; weapon seizure
A."Domestic
violence" means any act that is a dangerous crime against children as
defined in section 13705 or an offense prescribed in section 131102,
131103, 131104, 131105, 131201, 131202, 131203,
131204, 131302, 131303, 131304, 131406, 131425,
131502, 131503, 131504, 131602 or 132810,
section 132904, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3 or 6, section 132910,
subsection A, paragraph 8 or 9, section 13-2915, subsection A, paragraph 3 or
section 132916, 132921, 132921.01, 132923, 133019,
133601.02 or 133623, if any of the following applies:
1.The relationship
between the victim and the defendant is one of marriage or former marriage or
of persons residing or having resided in the same household.
2.The victim and the
defendant have a child in common.
3.The victim or the
defendant is pregnant by the other party.
4.The victim is related
to the defendant or the defendant's spouse by blood or court order as a parent,
grandparent, child, grandchild, brother or sister or by marriage as a parentinlaw,
grandparentinlaw, stepparent, stepgrandparent, stepchild,
stepgrandchild, brotherinlaw or sisterinlaw.
5.The victim is a child
who resides or has resided in the same household as the defendant and is
related by blood to a former spouse of the defendant or to a person who resides
or who has resided in the same household as the defendant.
6.The relationship
between the victim and the defendant is currently or was previously a romantic
or sexual relationship. The following factors may be considered in determining
whether the relationship between the victim and the defendant is currently or
was previously a romantic or sexual relationship:
(a)The type of
relationship.
(b)The length of the
relationship.
(c)The frequency of the
interaction between the victim and the defendant.
(d)If the relationship
has terminated, the length of time since the termination.
B.A peace officer, with
or without a warrant, may arrest a person if the officer has probable cause to
believe that domestic violence has been committed and the officer has probable
cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed the offense,
whether the offense is a felony or a misdemeanor and whether the offense was
committed within or without the presence of the peace officer.In
cases of domestic violence involving the infliction of physical injury or
involving the discharge, use or threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or
dangerous instrument, the peace officer shall arrest a person who is at least
fifteen years of age, with or without a warrant, if the officer has probable
cause to believe that the offense has been committed and the officer has
probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed the
offense, whether the offense was committed within or without the presence of
the peace officer, unless the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
the circumstances at the time are such that the victim will be protected from
further injury.Failure to make an arrest does not give rise to
civil liability except pursuant to section 12820.02.In order
to arrest both parties, the peace officer shall have probable cause to believe
that both parties independently have committed an act of domestic
violence.An act of selfdefense that is justified under
chapter 4 of this title is not deemed to be an act of domestic
violence.The release procedures available under section 133883,
subsection A, paragraph 4 and section 133903 are not applicable to
arrests made pursuant to this subsection.
C.A peace officer may
question the persons who are present to determine if a firearm is present on
the premises.On learning or observing that a firearm is present on
the premises, the peace officer may temporarily seize the firearm if the
firearm is in plain view or was found pursuant to a consent to search and if
the officer reasonably believes that the firearm would expose the victim or
another person in the household to a risk of serious bodily injury or
death.A firearm that is owned or possessed by the victim shall not
be seized unless there is probable cause to believe that both parties
independently have committed an act of domestic violence.
D.If a firearm is seized
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the peace officer shall give the
owner or possessor of the firearm a receipt for each seized
firearm.The receipt shall indicate the identification or serial
number or other identifying characteristic of each seized firearm. Each seized
firearm shall be held for at least seventytwo hours by the law
enforcement agency that seized the firearm.
E.If a firearm is seized
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the victim shall be notified by a
peace officer before the firearm is released from temporary custody.
F.If there is reasonable
cause to believe that returning a firearm to the owner or possessor may
endanger the victim, the person who reported the assault or threat or another
person in the household, the prosecutor shall file a notice of intent to retain
the firearm in the appropriate superior, justice or municipal
court.The prosecutor shall serve notice on the owner or possessor
of the firearm by certified mail.The notice shall state that unless the person is convicted of a domestic
violence offense the firearm will be retained for not more than
six months following the date of seizure. On receipt of the notice, the owner
or possessor may request a hearing for the return of the firearm, to dispute
the grounds for seizure or to request an earlier return date.The
court shall hold the hearing within ten days after receiving the owner's or
possessor's request for a hearing. At the hearing, unless the court determines
that the return of the firearm may endanger the victim, the person who reported
the assault or threat or another person in the household, the court shall order
the return of the firearm to the owner or possessor.
G.A peace officer is not
liable for any act or omission in the good faith exercise of the officer's
duties under subsections C, D, E and F of this section.
H.Each indictment,
information, complaint, summons or warrant that is issued and that involves
domestic violence shall state that the offense involved domestic violence and
shall be designated by the letters DV.A domestic violence charge
shall not be dismissed or a domestic violence conviction shall not be set aside
for failure to comply with this subsection.
I.A person who is
arrested pursuant to subsection B of this section may be released from custody
in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or any other
applicable statute.Any order for release, with or without an
appearance bond, shall include pretrial release conditions that are necessary
to provide for the protection of the alleged victim and other specifically
designated persons and may provide for additional conditions that the court
deems appropriate, including participation in any counseling programs available
to the defendant.
J.When a peace officer
responds to a call alleging that domestic violence has been or may be
committed, the officer shall inform in writing any alleged or potential victim
of the procedures and resources available for the protection of the victim
including:
1.An order of protection
pursuant to section 133602, an injunction pursuant to section 25315
and an injunction against harassment pursuant to section 121809.
2.The emergency telephone
number for the local police agency.
3.Telephone numbers for
emergency services in the local community.
4.Websites for local
resources related to domestic violence.
K.A peace officer is not
civilly liable for noncompliance with subsection J of this section.
L.If a person is
convicted of an offense involving domestic violence and the victim was pregnant
at the time of the commission of the offense, at the time of sentencing the
court shall take into consideration the fact that the victim was pregnant and
may increase the sentence.
M.An offense that is
included in domestic violence carries the classification prescribed in the
section of this title in which the offense is classified.If the
defendant committed a felony offense listed in subsection A of this section
against a pregnant victim and knew that the victim was pregnant or if the
defendant committed a felony offense causing physical injury to a pregnant
victim and knew that the victim was pregnant, the maximum sentence otherwise
authorized for that violation shall be increased by up to two years.
N.When a peace officer responds to a call alleging
that domestic violence has been or may be committed, the officer shall
determine if a minor is present. If a minor is present, the peace officer
shall conduct a child welfare check to determine if the child is safe and if
the child might be a victim of domestic violence or child abuse.
O.The court
shall order a person who is placed on probation for a domestic violence offense
to transfer for the duration of the person's probation any firearms that the
person owns or possesses to the appropriate law enforcement agency within
twentyfour hours after the person is sentenced or, if the person does
not own or possess a firearm, to provide the appropriate law enforcement agency
with an affidavit certifying that the person does not own or possess a
firearm. The court shall provide a copy of the order to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. The law enforcement agency shall provide the owner or
possessor of a surrendered or seized firearm with a receipt for each firearm.
Within twentyfour hours after receiving a copy of the court's order, if
the law enforcement agency has not received an affidavit or any firearms from
the person, the law enforcement agency shall notify the court and request a
search warrant for the person's home and vehicle, if appropriate. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-3602, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3602.Order of protection; procedure; contents; arrest for
violation; penalty; protection order from another jurisdiction
A.A person may file a verified petition, as in
civil actions, with a magistrate, justice of the peace or superior court judge
for an order of protection for the purpose of restraining a person from
committing an act included in domestic violence. If the person is a minor, the
parent, legal guardian or person who has legal custody of the minor shall file
the petition unless the court determines otherwise. The petition shall name
the parent, guardian or custodian as the plaintiff and the minor is a
specifically designated person for the purposes of subsection G of this
section.If a person is either temporarily or permanently unable to
request an order, a third party may request an order of protection on behalf of
the plaintiff. After the request, the judicial officer shall determine if the
third party is an appropriate requesting party for the plaintiff. For the
purposes of this section, notwithstanding the location of the plaintiff or
defendant, any court in this state may issue or enforce an order of protection.
B.An order of protection shall not be granted:
1.Unless the party who requests the order files a
written verified petition for an order.
2.Against a person who is less than twelve years of
age unless the order is granted by the juvenile division of the superior court.
3.Against more than one defendant.
C.The petition shall state the:
1.Name of the plaintiff. The plaintiff's address
shall be disclosed to the court for purposes of service.If the
address of the plaintiff is unknown to the defendant, the plaintiff may request
that the address be protected. On the plaintiff's request, the address shall
not be listed on the petition.Whether the court issues an order of
protection, the protected address shall be maintained in a separate document or
automated database and is not subject to release or disclosure by the court or
any form of public access except as ordered by the court.
2.Name and address, if known, of the defendant.
3.Specific statement, including dates, of the
domestic violence alleged.
4.Relationship between the parties pursuant to
section 133601, subsection A and whether there is pending between the
parties an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation or
dissolution of marriage.
5.Name of the court in which any prior or pending
proceeding or order was sought or issued concerning the conduct that is sought
to be restrained.
6.Desired relief.
D.A fee shall not be charged for filing a petition
under this section or for service of process.On request of the
plaintiff, each order of protection that is issued by a municipal court shall
be served by the police agency for that city if the defendant can be served
within the city. If the defendant cannot be served within the city, the police
agency in the city in which the defendant can be served shall serve the order.
If the order cannot be served within a city, the sheriff shall serve the
order. On request of the plaintiff, each order of protection that is issued by
a justice of the peace shall be served by the constable or sheriff for that
jurisdiction if the defendant can be served within the jurisdiction. If the
defendant cannot be served within that jurisdiction, the constable or sheriff
in the jurisdiction in which the defendant can be served shall serve the
order. On request of the plaintiff, each order of protection that is issued by
a superior court judge or commissioner shall be served by the sheriff of the
county.If the defendant cannot be served within that jurisdiction,
the sheriff in the jurisdiction in which the defendant can be served shall
serve the order. Each court shall provide, without charge, forms for purposes
of this section for assisting parties without counsel. The court shall make
reasonable efforts to provide to both parties an appropriate information sheet
on emergency and counseling services that are available in the local area.
E.The court shall review the petition, any other
pleadings on file and any evidence offered by the plaintiff, including any
evidence of harassment by electronic contact or communication, to determine
whether the orders requested should issue without further hearing. The court
shall issue an order of protection under subsection G of this section if the
court determines that there is reasonable cause to believe any of the
following:
1.The defendant may commit an act of domestic
violence.
2.The defendant has committed an act of domestic
violence within the past year or within a longer period of time if the court
finds that good cause exists to consider a longer period.
F.For the purposes of determining the period of
time under subsection E, paragraph 2 of this section, any time that the
defendant has been incarcerated or out of this state shall not be counted. If
the court denies the requested relief, it may schedule a further hearing within
ten days, with reasonable notice to the defendant.
G.If a court issues an order of protection, the
court may do any of the following:
1.Enjoin the defendant from committing a violation
of one or more of the offenses included in domestic violence.
2.Grant one party the use and exclusive possession
of the parties' residence on a showing that there is reasonable cause to
believe that physical harm may otherwise result. If the other party is
accompanied by a law enforcement officer, the other party may return to the
residence on one occasion to retrieve belongings. A law enforcement officer is
not liable for any act or omission in the good faith exercise of the officer's
duties under this paragraph.
3.Restrain the defendant from contacting the
plaintiff or other specifically designated persons and from coming near the
residence, place of employment or school of the plaintiff or other specifically
designated locations or persons on a showing that there is reasonable cause to
believe that physical harm may otherwise result.
4.If the court finds that the defendant is a
credible threat to the physical safety of the plaintiff or other specifically
designated persons, prohibit the defendant from possessing or purchasing a
firearm for the duration of the order. If the court prohibits the defendant
from possessing a firearm, the court shall also order the defendant to transfer
any firearm owned or possessed by the defendant immediately after service of
the order to the appropriate law enforcement agency for the duration of the
order. If the defendant does not immediately transfer the firearm, the
defendant shall transfer the firearm within twentyfour hours after
service of the order. If the firearm
is not transferred to the law enforcement agency within twentyfour
hours, the law enforcement agency shall notify the court and request a search
warrant for the person's home and vehicle, if appropriate, to retrieve the
firearm. The law enforcement agency shall provide the person with a receipt
for each firearm that is surrendered or seized. After the order has expired or
is dismissed, on application by the owner or possessor of the firearm, the law
enforcement agency shall return the firearm to the person unless the person is
prohibited from possessing or owning a firearm pursuant to state or federal
law.
5.If the order was issued after notice and a
hearing at which the defendant had an opportunity to participate, require the defendant
to complete a domestic violence offender treatment program that is provided by
a facility approved by the department of health services or a probation
department or any other program deemed appropriate by the court.
6.Grant relief that is necessary for the protection
of the alleged victim and other specifically designated persons and that is
proper under the circumstances.
7.Grant the petitioner the exclusive care, custody
or control of any animal that is owned, possessed, leased, kept or held by the
petitioner, the respondent or a minor child residing in the residence or
household of the petitioner or the respondent, and order the respondent to stay
away from the animal and forbid the respondent from taking, transferring,
encumbering, concealing, committing an act of cruelty or neglect in violation
of section 132910 or otherwise disposing of the animal.
H.The court shall not grant a mutual order of
protection.If opposing parties separately file verified petitions
for an order of protection, the courts after consultation between the judges
involved may consolidate the petitions of the opposing parties for hearing.
This does not prohibit a court from issuing cross orders of protection.
I.At any time during the period during which the
order is in effect, a party who is under an order of protection or who is
restrained from contacting the other party is entitled to one hearing on
written request. No fee may be charged for requesting a hearing. A hearing
that is requested by a party who is under an order of protection or who is
restrained from contacting the other party shall be held within ten days from
the date requested unless the court finds good cause to continue the hearing.
If exclusive use of the home is awarded, the hearing shall be held within five
days from the date requested.The hearing shall be held at the
earliest possible time. An ex parte order that is issued under this section
shall state on its face that the defendant is entitled to a hearing on written
request and shall include the name and address of the judicial office where the
request may be filed. After the hearing, the court may modify, quash or
continue the order.
J.The order shall include the following statement:
Warning
This is an official court order.If you disobey
this order, you will be subject to arrest and prosecution for the crime of
interfering with judicial proceedings and any other crime you may have
committed in disobeying this order.
K.A copy of the petition and the order shall be
served on the defendant within one year from the date the order is signed. An
order of protection that is not served on the defendant within one year
expires.An order is effective on the defendant on service of a copy
of the order and petition. An order expires one year after service on the
defendant.A modified order is effective on service and expires one
year after service of the initial order and petition.
L.A supplemental information form that is utilized used by the court or a law enforcement agency
solely for the purposes of service of process on the defendant and that
contains information provided by the plaintiff is confidential.
M.Each affidavit, acceptance or return of service
shall be promptly filed with the clerk of the issuing court.This
filing shall be completed in person, shall be made by fax or shall be
postmarked, if sent by mail, no later than the end of the seventh court
business day after the date of service. If the filing is made by fax, the
original affidavit, acceptance or return of service shall be promptly filed
with the court.Within twentyfour hours after the affidavit,
acceptance or return of service has been filed, excluding weekends and
holidays, the court from which the order or any modified order was issued shall
forward to the sheriff of the county in which the court is located a copy of
the order of protection and a copy of the affidavit or certificate of service
of process or acceptance of service. On receiving these copies, the sheriff
shall register the order. Registration of an order means that a copy of the
order of protection and a copy of the affidavit or acceptance of service have
been received by the sheriff's office.The sheriff shall maintain a
central repository for orders of protection so that the existence and validity
of the orders can be easily verified. The effectiveness of an order does not
depend on its registration, and for enforcement purposes pursuant to section 132810,
a copy of an order of the court, whether or not registered, is presumed to be a
valid existing order of the court for a period of one year from the date of
service of the order on the defendant.
N.A peace officer, with or without a warrant, may
arrest a person if the peace officer has probable cause to believe that the
person has violated section 132810 by disobeying or resisting an order
that is issued in any jurisdiction in this state pursuant to this section,
whether or not such violation occurred in the presence of the officer.
Criminal violations of an order issued pursuant to this section shall be
referred to an appropriate law enforcement agency.The law
enforcement agency shall request that a prosecutorial agency file the
appropriate charges. A violation of an order of protection shall not be
adjudicated by a municipal or justice court unless a complaint has been filed
or other legal process has been requested by the prosecuting
agency.The provisions for release under section 133883,
subsection A, paragraph 4 and section 133903 do not apply to an arrest
made pursuant to this section. For the purposes of this section, any court in
this state has jurisdiction to enforce a valid order of protection that is
issued in this state and that has been violated in any jurisdiction in this
state.
O.A person who is arrested pursuant to subsection M N of this section may be released from
custody in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or any other
applicable statute. An order for release, with or without an appearance bond,
shall include pretrial release conditions that are necessary to provide for the
protection of the alleged victim and other specifically designated persons and
may provide for any other additional conditions that the court deems
appropriate, including participation in any counseling programs available to
the defendant. The agency with custody of the defendant shall make reasonable
efforts to contact the victim and other specifically designated persons in the
order of protection, if known to the custodial agency, who requested
notification immediately on release of the arrested person from custody.
P.The remedies provided in this section for
enforcement of the orders of the court are in addition to any other civil and
criminal remedies available.The superior court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to issue orders of protection in all cases if it appears from the
petition that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation
or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties. A municipal court
or justice court shall not issue an order of protection if it appears from the
petition that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation
or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties.After
issuance of an order of protection, if the municipal court or justice court
determines that an action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal
separation or dissolution of marriage is pending between the parties, the
municipal court or justice court shall stop further proceedings in the action
and forward all papers, together with a certified copy of docket entries or any
other record in the action, to the superior court where they shall be docketed
in the pending superior court action and shall proceed as though the petition
for an order of protection had been originally brought in the superior court.
Notwithstanding any other law and unless prohibited by an order of the superior
court, a municipal court or justice court may hold a hearing on all matters
relating to its ex parte order of protection if the hearing was requested
before receiving written notice of the pending superior court
action.No order of protection shall be invalid or determined to be
ineffective merely because it was issued by a lower court at a time when an
action for maternity or paternity, annulment, legal separation or dissolution
of marriage was pending in a higher court. After a hearing with notice to the
affected party, the court may enter an order requiring any party to pay the
costs of the action, including reasonable attorney fees, if any.An
order that is entered by a justice court or municipal court after a hearing
pursuant to this section may be appealed to the superior court as provided in
title 22, chapter 2, article 4, section 22425, subsection B and the
superior court rules of civil appellate procedure without regard to an amount
in controversy. No fee may be charged to either party for filing an appeal.
For the purposes of this subsection, "pending" means, with respect to
an action for annulment, legal separation or dissolution of marriage or for
maternity or paternity, either that:
1.An action has been commenced but a final
judgment, decree or order has not been entered.
2.A postdecree proceeding has been commenced
but a judgment, decree or order finally determining the proceeding has not been
entered.
Q.A peace officer who makes an arrest pursuant to
this section or section 133601 is not civilly or criminally liable for
the arrest if the officer acts on probable cause and without malice.
R.In addition to persons authorized to serve
process pursuant to rule 4(d) of the Arizona rules of civil procedure, a peace
officer or a correctional officer as defined in section 411661 who is
acting in the officer's official capacity may serve an order of protection that
is issued pursuant to this section.Service of the order of
protection has priority over other service of process that does not involve an
immediate threat to the safety of a person.
S.A valid protection order that is related to
domestic or family violence and that is issued by a court in another state, a
court of a United States territory or a tribal court shall be accorded full
faith and credit and shall be enforced as if it were issued in this state for
as long as the order is effective in the issuing jurisdiction.For
the purposes of this subsection:
1.A protection order includes any injunction or
other order that is issued for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening
acts or harassment against, contact or communication with or physical proximity
to another person.A protection order includes temporary and final
orders other than support or child custody orders that are issued by civil and
criminal courts if the order is obtained by the filing of an independent action
or is a pendente lite order in another proceeding. The civil order shall be
issued in response to a complaint, petition or motion that was filed by or on
behalf of a person seeking protection.
2.A protection order is valid if the issuing court
had jurisdiction over the parties and the matter under the laws of the issuing
state, a United States territory or an Indian tribe and the person against whom
the order was issued had reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard. If
the order is issued ex parte, the notice and opportunity to be heard shall be
provided within the time required by the laws of the issuing state, a United
States territory or an Indian tribe and within a reasonable time after the
order was issued.
3.A mutual protection order that is issued against
both the party who filed a petition or a complaint or otherwise filed a written
pleading for protection against abuse and the person against whom the filing
was made is not entitled to full faith and credit if either:
(a)The person against whom an initial order was
sought has not filed a cross or counter petition or other written pleading
seeking a protection order.
(b)The issuing court failed to make specific
findings supporting the entitlement of both parties to be granted a protection
order.
4.A peace officer may presume the validity of and
rely on a copy of a protection order that is issued by another state, a United
States territory or an Indian tribe if the order was given to the officer by
any source.A peace officer may also rely on the statement of any
person who is protected by the order that the order remains in effect. A peace
officer who acts in good faith reliance on a protection order is not civilly or
criminally liable for enforcing the protection order pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE

