







REFERENCE TITLE: TPT; utilities; manufacturing; smelting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1291









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending section
42-5063, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the utilities transaction
privilege tax classification.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5063, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5063.Utilities classification; definitions
A.The utilities classification is comprised of the
business of:
1.Producing and furnishing or furnishing to
consumers natural or artificial gas and water.
2.Providing to retail electric customers ancillary
services, electric distribution services, electric generation services,
electric transmission services and other services related to providing
electricity.
B.The utilities classification does not include:
1.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services related to providing electricity, gas or water to a
person who resells the services.
2.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
3.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
4.Sales of ancillary services, electric
distribution services, electric generation services, electric transmission
services and other services that are related to providing electricity to a
retail electric customer who is located outside this state for use outside this
state if the electricity is delivered to a point of sale outside this state.
5.Sales or other transfers of renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power utility to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
6.The leasing or renting of space to make
attachments to utility poles as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in business under
this section.
(b)To a person that is engaged in business under
this section or section 425064 or that is a cable operator.
C.The tax base for the utilities classification is
the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business, but the
following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Revenues received by a municipally owned utility
in the form of fees charged to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Revenues received by any person or persons owning
a utility system in the form of reimbursement or contribution compensation for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
3.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales to:
(a)Qualifying hospitals as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
4.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income that is derived from sales to a qualified environmental technology
manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 of a
utility product and that is used directly in environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing.This paragraph shall apply
for twenty full consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first
paper manufacturing machine is placed in service.In the case of a
qualified environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does
not manufacture paper, the time period shall begin with the date the first
manufacturing, processing or production equipment is placed in service.
5.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income attributable to transfers of electricity by any retail electric customer
owning a solar photovoltaic energy generating system to an electric
distribution system, if the electricity transferred is generated by the
customer's system.
6.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity or natural gas to a business that is principally
engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations and that uses at least fiftyone percent of the
electricity or natural gas in the manufacturing or smelting operations.This
paragraph does not apply to gas transportation services.For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Gas transportation services" means the
services of transporting natural gas to a natural gas customer or to a natural
gas distribution facility if the natural gas was purchased from a supplier
other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing" means the performance
as a business of an integrated series of operations that places tangible
personal property in a form, composition or character different from that in
which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product with a
distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not include processing, fabricating, job
printing, mining, generating electricity or operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally engaged" means either:
(i)At least fifty-one percent of the business is a
manufacturing or smelting operation, as
determined by facility square footage or number of employees including
facilities and employees that primarily support the manufacturing or smelting
operations, such as staff or facilities for administrative support, sales,
marketing, legal services and research and development.
(ii)At
least fifty-one percent of the gross income of the business is derived from the
sale of products produced by the business.
(d)"Smelting" means to melt or fuse a
metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying chemical change, usually to
separate the metal.
7.Gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from sales of electricity or natural gas to a business that operates an
international operations center in this state and that is certified by the
Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Ancillary services" means those
services so designated in federal energy regulatory commission order 888
adopted in 1996 that include the services necessary to support the transmission
of electricity from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of
the transmission system according to good utility practice.
2."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 9505.
3."Electric distribution service" means
distributing electricity to retail electric customers through the use of
electric distribution facilities.
4."Electric generation service" means
providing electricity for sale to retail electric customers but excluding
electric distribution or transmission services.
5."Electric transmission service" means
transmitting electricity to retail electric customers or to electric
distribution facilities so classified by the federal energy regulatory
commission or, to the extent permitted by law, so classified by the Arizona corporation
commission.
6."Other services" includes metering,
meter reading services, billing and collecting services.
7."Retail electric customer" means a
person who purchases electricity for that person's own use, including use in
that person's trade or business and not for resale, redistribution or
retransmission.
8."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE 

