







REFERENCE TITLE: mediation; confidential communications;
  exception







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1293









Introduced by
Senator
  Driggs





AN ACT

amending section
122238, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to privileged communications.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 12-2238, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-2238.Mediation; privileged communications; exceptions;
liability; definitions
A.Before or after the filing of a complaint,
mediation may occur pursuant to law, a court order or a voluntary decision of
the parties.
B.The mediation process is
confidential.Communications made, materials created for or used and
acts occurring during a mediation are confidential and may not be discovered or
admitted into evidence unless one of the following exceptions is met:
1.All of the parties to the mediation agree to the
disclosure.
2.The communication, material or act is relevant to
a claim or defense made by a party to the mediation against the mediator or the
mediation program arising out of a breach of a legal obligation owed by the mediator
to the party.
3.The disclosure is required by statute.
4.The disclosure is necessary to enforce an
agreement to mediate.
5.The
disclosure is made in a report to a law enforcement officer, the department of
child safety or adult protective services by a court appointed mediator who
reasonably believes that a minor or vulnerable adult is or has been a victim of
abuse, child abuse, neglect, physical injury or a reportable offense.
C.Except pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 2, 3
or 4 of this section, a
mediator is not subject to service of process or a subpoena to produce evidence
or to testify regarding any evidence or occurrence relating to the mediation
proceedings. Evidence that exists independently of the mediation even if the
evidence is used in connection with the mediation is subject to service of
process or subpoena.
D.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, when necessary to enforce or
obtain approval of an agreement that is reached by the parties in a mediation,
the terms of an agreement that is evidenced by a record that is signed by the
parties are not confidential.The agreement may be introduced in any
proceeding to obtain court approval of the agreement, where required by law, or
to enforce the agreement. If a party requests that all or a portion of the
agreement remain confidential, the agreement may be disclosed to the court
under seal with a request to issue appropriate orders to protect the
confidentiality of the agreement, as permitted by law.
E.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, threatened or actual
violence that occurs during a mediation is not a privileged communication. The
mediator may inform the parties that threatened or actual violence is not
privileged and may be disclosed.
F.A mediator is not subject to civil liability
except for those acts or omissions that involve intentional misconduct or
reckless disregard of a substantial risk of a significant injury to the rights
of others.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Abuse"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 8201.
2."Child
abuse" means child abuse pursuant to section 133623.
1.3."Mediation"
means a process in which parties who are involved in a dispute enter into one
or more private settlement discussions outside of a formal court proceeding
with a neutral third party to try to resolve the dispute. 
4."Neglect"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 8201.
5."Physical
injury" has the same meaning prescribed in section 13105.
2.6."Record"
means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in
an electronic or other medium and that is retrievable in a perceivable form.
7."Reportable
offense" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133620.
3.8."Sign"
means to execute or adopt a tangible symbol with the present intent to
authenticate a record or to attach or logically associate an electronic symbol,
sound or process to or with a record with the present intent to authenticate a
record.
9."Vulnerable
adult" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133623.
END_STATUTE

