







REFERENCE TITLE: Arizona criminal justice commission;
  membership







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1275









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Andrade, Cardenas, Velasquez: Espinoza, Fernandez,
  Mendez





AN ACT

amending section
412404, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the arizona criminal
justice commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2404, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2404.Arizona criminal justice commission; members;
compensation; terms; meetings
A.The Arizona criminal justice commission is
established consisting of the following members:
1.The attorney general or the attorney general's
designee.
2.The director of the department of public safety
or the director's designee.
3.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
4.Fourteen members who are appointed by the
governor or their designees. No more than seven of these members may be from
the same political party.
5.The administrative director of the courts or the
director's designee.
6.The chairman of the board of executive clemency
or the chairman's designee.
7.Two
attorneys who practice primarily in the area of criminal defense and who are
appointed by the governor.
B.The members who are appointed pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 4 shall include at least one police chief, one county
attorney and one county sheriff from a county with a population of one million
five hundred thousand or more persons, one police chief, one county attorney
and one county sheriff from a county with a population equal to or greater than
eight hundred thousand persons but fewer than one million five hundred thousand
persons and one police chief, one county attorney and one county sheriff from
counties with a population of fewer than eight hundred thousand persons. The
remaining members shall include one law enforcement leader, one former judge,
one mayor, one member of a county board of supervisors and one chief probation
officer.
C.Members who are appointed pursuant to subsection
A, paragraph paragraphs 4 and 7 shall serve for terms of two years
terminating on the convening of the first regular session of the legislature.
Any appointive member who ceases to be a member of the body the member
represents on the commission is deemed to have resigned. Appointments to fill
a vacancy shall be made in the same manner as the original appointment.
D.The commission shall meet and organize by
electing from among its membership such officers as are deemed necessary or
advisable. The commission shall meet at least once during each calendar
quarter and additionally as the chairman deems necessary, and a majority of the
members constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business.
E.Members of the commission are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Initial terms of members of the Arizona criminal justice
commission
A.Notwithstanding section 41-2404, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, the terms of additional members of the
Arizona criminal justice commission are:
1.One term ending January 9, 2017.
2.One term ending January 8, 2018.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.

