







REFERENCE TITLE: private postsecondary institutions;
  police officers







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1240









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
1215, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 15, chapter 14, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding article 12; relating to private postsecondary
institutions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 1-215, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE1-215.Definitions
In the statutes and laws of this state, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Action" includes any matter or
proceeding in a court, civil or criminal.
2."Adopted rule" means a final rule as
defined in section 411001.
3."Adult" means a person who has attained
eighteen years of age.
4."Alternative fuel" means:
(a)Electricity.
(b)Solar energy.
(c)Liquefied petroleum gas, natural gas, hydrogen
or a blend of hydrogen with liquefied petroleum or natural gas that complies
with any of the following:
(i)Is used in an engine that is certified to meet
at a minimum the United States environmental protection agency low emission
vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 88.10494
or 88.10594.
(ii)Is used in an engine that is certified by the
engine modifier to meet the addendum to memorandum 1A of the United
States environmental protection agency as printed in the federal register,
volume 62, number 207, October 27, 1997, pages 55635 through 55637.
(iii)Is used in an engine that is the subject of a
waiver for that specific engine application from the United States
environmental protection agency's memorandum 1A addendum requirements
and that waiver is documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the director of
the department of environmental quality.
(d)Only for vehicles that use alcohol fuels before
August 21, 1998, alcohol fuels that contain not less than eightyfive per
cent alcohol by volume.
(e)A combination of at least seventy per cent
alternative fuel and no more than thirty per cent petroleum based fuel that
operates in an engine that meets the United States environmental protection
agency low emission vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 88.10494 or 88.10594 and that is certified by the engine
manufacturer to consume at least seventy per cent alternative fuel during
normal vehicle operations.
5."Bribe" means anything of value or
advantage, present or prospective, asked, offered, given, accepted or promised
with a corrupt intent to influence, unlawfully, the person to whom it is given
in that person's action, vote or opinion, in any public or official capacity.
6."Child" or "children" as used
in reference to age of persons means persons under eighteen years of age.
7."Clean
burning fuel" means:
(a)An emulsion of
waterphased hydrocarbon fuel that contains not less than twenty per cent
water by volume and that complies with any of the following:
(i)Is used in an engine that is certified to meet
at a minimum the United States environmental protection agency low emission
vehicle standard pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 88.10494
or 88.10594.
(ii)Is used in an engine that is certified by the
engine modifier to meet the addendum to memorandum 1A of the United
States environmental protection agency as printed in the federal register,
volume 62, number 207, October 27, 1997, pages 55635 through 55637.
(iii)Is used in an engine that is the subject of a
waiver for that specific engine application from the United States
environmental protection agency's memorandum 1A addendum requirements
and that waiver is documented to the reasonable satisfaction of the director of
the department of environmental quality.
(b)A diesel fuel substitute that is produced from
nonpetroleum renewable resources if the qualifying volume of the nonpetroleum
renewable resources meets the standards for California diesel fuel as adopted
by the California air resources board pursuant to 13 California Code of
Regulations sections 2281 and 2282 in effect on January 1, 2000, the diesel
fuel substitute meets the registration requirement for fuels and additives established
by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to section 211 of
the clean air act as defined in section 49401.01 and the use of the
diesel fuel substitute complies with the requirements listed in 10 Code of
Federal Regulations part 490, as printed in the federal register, volume 64,
number 96, May 19, 1999.
(c)A diesel fuel that complies with all of the
following:
(i)Contains a maximum of fifteen parts per million
by weight of sulfur.
(ii)Meets ASTM D975.
(iii)Meets the registration requirements for fuels
and additives established by the United States environmental protection agency
pursuant to section 211 of the clean air act as defined in section 49401.01.
(iv)Is used in an engine that is equipped or has
been retrofitted with a device that has been certified by the California air
resources board diesel emission control strategy verification procedure, the
United States environmental protection agency voluntary diesel retrofit program
or the United States environmental protection agency verification protocol for
retrofit catalyst, particulate filter and engine modification control
technologies for highway and nonroad use diesel engines.
(d)A blend of unleaded gasoline that contains at
minimum eightyfive per cent ethanol by volume or eightyfive per
cent methanol by volume.
(e)Neat methanol.
(f)Neat ethanol.
8."Corruptly" means a wrongful design to
acquire or cause some pecuniary or other advantage to the person guilty of the
act or omission referred to, or to some other person.
9."Daytime" means the period between
sunrise and sunset.
10."Depose" includes every manner of
written statement under oath or affirmation.
11."Federal poverty guidelines" means the
poverty guidelines as updated annually in the federal register by the United
States department of health and human services.
12."Grantee" includes every person to
whom an estate or interest in real property passes, in or by a deed.
13."Grantor" includes every person from
or by whom an estate or interest in real property passes, in or by a deed.
14."Includes" or "including"
means not limited to and is not a term of exclusion.
15."Inhabitant" means a resident of a
city, town, village, district, county or precinct.
16."Issue" as used in connection with descent
of estates includes all lawful, lineal descendants of the ancestor.
17."Knowingly":
(a)Means only a knowledge that the facts exist that
bring the act or omission within the provisions of the statute using such
word.
(b)Does not require any knowledge of the
unlawfulness of the act or omission.
18."Magistrate" means an officer having
power to issue a warrant for the arrest of a person charged with a public
offense and includes the chief justice and justices of the supreme court,
judges of the superior court, judges of the court of appeals, justices of the
peace andjudges of a municipal court.
19."Majority" or "age of
majority" as used in reference to age of persons means the age of eighteen years of age or more.
20."Malice" and "maliciously"
mean a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or an intent to do a
wrongful act, established either by proof or presumption of law.
21."Minor" means a person under the age
of eighteen years.
22."Minor children" means persons under
the age of eighteen years.
23."Month" means a calendar month unless
otherwise expressed.
24."Neglect", "negligence",
"negligent" and "negligently" import a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequence of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concerns.
25."Nighttime" means the period between
sunset and sunrise.
26."Oath" includes an affirmation or
declaration.
27."Peace officers" means sheriffs of
counties, constables, marshals, policemen of cities and towns, commissioned
personnel of the department of public safety, personnel who are employed by the
state department of corrections and the department of juvenile corrections and
who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards and training
board, peace officers who are appointed by a multicounty water conservation
district and who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer
standards and training board, police officers who are appointed by community
college district governing boards and who have received a certificate from the
Arizona peace officer standards and training board, police officers who are
appointed by the Arizona board of regents and who have received a certificate
from the Arizona peace officer standards and training board, police officers
who are appointed by the governing body of a public airport pursuant to section
288426 and who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace
officer standards and training board,
police officers who are appointed by a private postsecondary institution
pursuant to section 151897 and who have received a certificate from the
Arizona peace officer standards and training board and special
agents from the office of the attorney general, or of a county attorney, and
who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer standards and
training board.
28."Person" includes a corporation,
company, partnership, firm, association or society, as well as a natural
person. When the word "person" is used to designate the party whose
property may be the subject of a criminal or public offense, the term includes
the United States, this state, or any territory, state or country, or any
political subdivision of this state that may lawfully own any property, or a
public or private corporation, or partnership or association. When the word
"person" is used to designate the violator or offender of any law, it
includes corporation, partnership or any association of persons.
29."Personal property" includes money,
goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of debt.
30."Population" means the population
according to the most recent United States decennial census.
31."Process" means a citation, writ or
summons issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
32."Property" includes both real and
personal property.
33."Real property" is coextensive with
lands, tenements and hereditaments.
34."Registered mail" includes certified
mail.
35."Seal" as used in reference to a paper
issuing from a court or public office to which the seal of such court or office
is required to be affixed means an impression of the seal on that paper, an
impression of the seal affixed to that paper by a wafer or wax, a stamped seal,
a printed seal, a screened seal or a computer generated seal.
36."Signature" or
"subscription" includes a mark, if a person cannot write, with the
person's name written near it and witnessed by a person who writes the person's
own name as witness.
37."State", as applied to the different
parts of the United States, includes the District of Columbia, this state and
the territories.
38."Testify" includes every manner of
oral statement under oath or affirmation.
39."United States" includes the District
of Columbia and the territories.
40."Vessel", as used in reference to
shipping, includes ships of all kinds, steamboats, steamships, barges, canal
boats and every structure adapted to navigation from place to place for the
transportation of persons or property.
41."Wilfully" means, with respect to
conduct or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an offense, that a
person is aware or believes that the person's conduct is of that nature or that
the circumstance exists.
42."Will" includes codicils.
43."Workers' compensation" means
workmen's compensation as used in article XVIII, section 8, Constitution of
Arizona.
44."Writ" means an order or precept in
writing issued in the name of the state or by a court or judicial officer.
45."Writing" includes printing. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 14, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 12, to read:
ARTICLE 12.PRIVATE POSTSECONDARY INSTITUTION
POLICE OFFICERS
START_STATUTE15-1897.Private postsecondary institutions; appointment of police
officers
A.A private
postsecondary institution that offers baccalaureate degrees may appoint one or
more persons to be designated by the private postsecondary institution as
police officers to aid and supplement the law enforcement agencies of this
state in the protection of persons and property. While engaged in the conduct
of this employment, a private postsecondary institution police officer
possesses and shall exercise law enforcement powers of peace officers in this
state.
B.A person who is appointed as a private
postsecondary institution police officer under this section shall have the
minimum qualifications established by the Arizona peace officer standards and
training board for peace officers and police officers pursuant to section 411822.The
private postsecondary institution shall file with the director of the
department of public safety the name of each private postsecondary institution
police officer on the date of the police officer's appointment.
C.If the
appointee meets the minimum qualifications established by the Arizona peace
officer standards and training board, the director of the department of public
safety shall issue the appointee a certificate of authority to act as a peace officer.
The director of the department of public safety may revoke a certificate for
good cause shown.
D.A private
postsecondary police officer who is appointed pursuant to this section is not
eligible to participate in the public safety personnel retirement system based
solely on the service provided to a private postsecondary institution. END_STATUTE 

