







REFERENCE TITLE: voter registration; automatic; driver
  licenses







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1260









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Dalessandro, Farley, Hobbs, Sherwood: Cajero Bedford, Contreras,
  Meza, Miranda, Pancrazi, Quezada; Representatives Andrade, Otondo





AN ACT

amending section
16-112, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to qualification and registration of
electors.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-112, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-112.Driver license voter registration
A.Every person who is applying for a driver
license or renewal and who is otherwise qualified to register to vote shall, at the same time and
place, shall be permitted to register registered to vote by providing
the information prescribed by section 16152. The method used to
register voters shall require only the minimum information necessary to prevent
duplicate registrations, to enable elections officials to determine voter
eligibility and to administer voter registration and election laws. A
registration form shall be included for a person who is applying for a driver
license renewal by mail. On completion of a form that contains at least the
information prescribed by section 16121.01, subsection A and that may
contain the information prescribed by section 16152 and on receipt of
that form by the county recorder from the department of transportation as
prescribed by subsection D of this section, the county recorder shall provide notice to the applicant
that the applicant may decline to be registered to vote. The notice shall
inform the applicant that if the applicant does not decline to be registered
within twenty-one CALENDAR days after receipt of the notice from the county
recorder, the applicant will be registered to vote. If the county recorder
does not receive a declination from the applicant WITHIN twenty-five CALENDAR
days after providing the notice and on confirmation that the applicant meets
the requirements to register to vote, the applicant is presumed
to be properly registered to vote. That
The presumption that the applicant is properly registered to
vote may be rebutted as provided in section 16-121.01, subsection
B.
B.The director of the department of transportation
and the secretary of state shall consult at least every two years regarding
voter registration at driver license offices. The director of the department
of transportation and the secretary of state shall, after consultation with all county
recorders, shall adopt
rules to implement a system permitting
in which driver license
applicants to register, including applicants for renewal, are
registered to vote at the same time and place as they apply for
driver licenses. Such Those rules shall:
1.Bring the license application and voter
registration application forms into substantial conformity.
2.Permit the transfer of driver license
applications, including renewal and change of address, and voter registration
information from the department of transportation to the voter registration
rolls.
3.Respect all rules and statutes of this state
concerning the confidentiality of driver license application information.
4.Provide for the manual or electronic generation
and transmittal of voter registrations and provide for electronic generation of
changes in voter registration information, including address, in conformity with
the confidentiality requirements of the national voter registration act of 1993
(P.L. 10331; 107 Stat. 77; 42
52 United States Code
section 394 20501).
C.The department of transportation shall provide to
applicants a statement that provides each eligibility requirement for voting,
including citizenship, an attestation that the applicant meets each
requirement, for the signature of the applicant under penalty of perjury and,
in print that is identical to that used in the attestation, the following:
1.A description of the penalties provided by law
for the submission of a false voter registration application.
2.A statement that if an applicant declines to
register to vote the fact that the applicant has declined to register will
remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes.
3.A statement that if an applicant does register to
vote the office at which the applicant submits a voter registration application
will remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes.
D.The department of transportation shall return or
mail completed registrations to the county recorder of the county in which the
applicant resides within five days after receipt of a completed registration. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

