







REFERENCE TITLE: internet sex offender website; offenses







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1286









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
133827, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the internet sex offender
website.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3827, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3827.Internet sex offender website; investigation of records;
immunity; definition
A.The department of public safety shall establish
and maintain an internet sex offender website for offenders whose risk assessment has been determined to be
a level two or level three.for the purpose of the internet sex offender website is to provide
providing sex offender
information to the public.The
internet sex offender website shall include the following offenders:
1.Any
offender whose risk assessment has been determined to be a level two or level
three.
2.Unless
included under paragraph 1 of this subsection, any offender who was convicted
of or adjudicated guilty except insane for any of the following completed or
preparatory offenses:
(a)Sexual assault pursuant to
section 13-1406.
(b)Sexual exploitation of a minor
pursuant to section 13-3553.
(c)Commercial sexual exploitation
of a minor pursuant to section 133552.
(d)Sexual abuse pursuant to section
13-1404 if the victim is under twelve years of age.
(e)Molestation of a child pursuant
to section 13-1410 if the victim is under twelve years of age.
(f)Sexual conduct with a minor
pursuant to section 13-1405 if the victim is under twelve years of age.
(g)Child prostitution pursuant to
section 133212, subsection A or subsection B, paragraph 1 or 2.
(h)Taking a child for the purpose
of prostitution pursuant to section 13-3206.
(i)Luring a minor for sexual
exploitation pursuant to section 133554.
(j)Aggravated luring a minor for
sexual exploitation pursuant to section 13-3560.
(k)Continuous sexual abuse of a
child pursuant to section 13-1417 if the victim is under twelve years of age.
B.The internet sex offender website shall include
the following information for each convicted or adjudicated guilty except
insane sex offender in this state who is required to register pursuant to
section 133821:
1.The offender's name, address and age.
2.A current photograph.
3.The offense committed and notification level
pursuant to section 133825, subsection C, if a risk assessment has been
completed pursuant to section 133825.
C.The department of public safety shall annually
update on the website the name, address and photograph of each sex offender.
D.The department of public safety shall maintain a
separate database and search function on the website that contains any required
online identifier of sex offenders whose risk assessments have been determined
to be a level two or level three and the name of any website or internet
communication service where the required online identifier is being used. This
information shall not be publicly connected to the name, address and photograph
of a registered sex offender on the website.
E.The department of public safety may disseminate a
registered sex offender's required online identifier and the name of any
corresponding website or internet communication service to a business or
organization that offers electronic communication services for comparison with
information that is held by the requesting business or organization. The
requesting business or organization shall notify the department of public
safety when a comparison of the information indicates that a registered sex
offender's required online identifier is being used on the business's or
organization's system.The requesting business or organization shall
not further disseminate that the person is a registered sex offender.
F.The motor vehicle division of the department of
transportation shall send copies of each sex offender's nonoperating
identification license or driver license photograph to the department of public
safety for inclusion on the sex offender website.
G.The department of public safety shall annually
verify the addresses of all sex offender registration records contained within
the Arizona criminal justice information system.Before including
the address of a sex offender on the website, the department of public safety
shall confirm that the address is correct.To confirm a sex offender's
address, the department shall conduct a search of the Arizona criminal justice
information system. If this search does not provide the necessary
confirmation, the department shall use alternative public and private sector
resources that are currently used for criminal investigation purposes to
confirm the address.The department of public safety is prohibited
from using or releasing the information from the alternative public and private
sector resources except pursuant to this section.A custodian or
public or private sector resource that releases information pursuant to this
subsection is not civilly or criminally liable in any action alleging a
violation of confidentiality.
H.The department of public safety may petition the
superior court for enforcement of subsection G of this section if a public or
private sector resource refuses to comply.The court shall grant
enforcement if the department has reasonable grounds to believe the records
sought to be inspected are relevant to confirming the identity and address of a
sex offender.
I.Except for a
person who is required to register pursuant to section 133821, a person
who provides or fails to provide information required by this section is not
civilly or criminally liable unless the act or omission is wanton or wilful.
J.For the purpose of this section, "required
online identifier" means any electronic email address information
or instant message, chat, social networking or other similar internet
communication name, but does not include a social security number, date of
birth or pin number. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Applicability
Section 133827, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, applies to a person who is convicted of or adjudicated guilty except
insane for an offense that is listed in section 133827, subsection A,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, and that was committed
before, on or after the effective date of this act.

