







REFERENCE TITLE: adjutant general; national guard rules







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1213









Introduced by
Senators
  Smith, McGuire; Representatives Andrade, Borrelli, Campbell, Cardenas:
  Senators Burges, Donahue, Kavanagh; Representatives Finchem, Kern, Pratt





AN ACT

amending section
26102, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to emergency and military
affairs.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 26-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE26-102.Powers and duties of the adjutant general
A.The adjutant general shall serve as head of the department.The
governor as commander in chief shall administer and control the national guard,
and the adjutant general is responsible to the governor for execution of all
orders relating to the militia, organization, activation, reactivation,
inactivation and allocation of units, recruiting of personnel, public relations
and discipline and training of the national guard and those members of the
militia inducted into the service of this state as provided in this
chapter.The adjutant general shall act as military chief of staff
to the governor and chief of all branches of the militia.The
adjutant general may belong to the national association and other organizations
for the betterment of the national guard, subscribe to and obtain periodicals,
literature and magazines of such other organizations and pay dues and charges
from monies of this state appropriated for that purpose.Except for
the authority expressly reserved for the governor, the adjutant general is
responsible for emergency management, and all emergency activities are subject
to the approval of the adjutant general.
B.The adjutant general, as the military chief of
staff, shall:
1.Act as military advisor to the governor and
perform, as the governor prescribes, military duties not otherwise designated
by law.
2.Adopt methods of administration for the national
guard that are not inconsistent with laws and regulations of the United States
department of defense or any subdivision of the United States department of
defense.
3.Supervise and direct the organization,
regulation, instruction and other activities of the national guard.
4.Attest and record all commissions issued by the
governor and maintain a register of all commissioned personnel.
5.Keep a record of all orders and regulations pertaining
to the national guard and all other writings and papers relating to reports and
returns of units comprising the national guard and militia.
6.Superintend the preparation of returns, plans and
estimates required by this state, by the department of the army, air force or
navy and by the united states secretary
of defense.
7.Control the use of and care for, preserve and
maintain all military property belonging to or issued to this state and pay
from monies appropriated by the legislature for these purposes the necessary
expenses for labor and material incurred in the repair of military property.
8.Dispose of unserviceable military property
belonging to this state, account for the proceeds and transmit them the
proceeds to the morale, welfare and recreational fund established
by section 26153.
9.Authenticate with the seal of the office of the
adjutant general all orders and copies of orders issued by the adjutant
general's office.An authenticated copy has the same force and
effect as the original.
10.Present to the governor before each regular
session of the legislature, or as otherwise required, an estimate of the
financial requirements for state monies for operation of the department and the
national guard during the next fiscal year.
C.The adjutant general, as head of the department,
shall:
1.Be the administrator of the department.
2.Coordinate the functions of the divisions and
offices of the department.
3.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 and, as
applicable, article 5, appoint, suspend, demote, promote or dismiss employees
of the department.The adjutant general may delegate this authority.
4.Appoint an auditor for the department to conduct
periodic financial and compliance audits of each division and office in the department
and perform such other
duties as prescribed by law.At least annually the auditor shall
audit accounts that are open for more than twelve months.The
auditor shall determine within the department compliance with purchase and
bidding procedures prescribed by law.
5.Adopt, with the approval of the governor, rules
necessary for the operation of the department and for the organization, governance, armament, equipping,
instruction and compensation of the national guard and authorized employees.
rules that are adopted for the national
guard and authorized employees pursuant to this paragraph shall be in force and
effect when approved by the governor. 
6.Establish and administer accounts for federal,
state or other monies made available to carry out the functions of the
department.
7.As deemed necessary, appoint to peace officer
status members of the Arizona national guard who have been awarded a United
States army military occupational specialty as military policeman or a United
States air force specialty code as security policeman. Before
appointment as peace officers, such individuals must successfully complete a
course of study to be prescribed by the Arizona peace officer standards and
training board. Individuals appointed as peace officers pursuant to this section paragraph, when performing duties at
facilities or on land operated or controlled by or under the jurisdiction of
the adjutant general, have all the powers, privileges and immunities of peace
officers provided by law.Individuals appointed as peace officers
pursuant to this section paragraph are not eligible to
participate in funding provided by the peace officers' training fund
established by section 411825 or in the public safety personnel
retirement system.
8.Establish, abolish or reorganize the positions or
organizational structure within the department, subject to legislative
appropriation, if, in the adjutant general's judgment, the modification would
make the operation of the department more efficient, effective or economical.
9.Establish an educational program for persons who
have previously dropped out of high school and who are under twenty years of
age but who are not adjudicated delinquent.The educational program
shall be designated "project challenge", and the program shall be
conducted by the national guard of Arizona in a paramilitary
environment.The goal of the educational program is to provide
persons who are enrolled
in the program with the knowledge and skills necessary to become productive
citizens and to obtain a general equivalency diploma.In addition to
monies appropriated for the program, the adjutant general may accept and spend
monies from any other lawful public or private source. 
10.Submit to the governor, the president of the
senate and the speaker of the house of representatives annually by September 1
a report for the department for the preceding fiscal year including:
(a)The strength and condition of the national
guard.
(b)The business transactions of the department.
(c)A detailed statement of expenditures for all
military and civilian purposes.
(d)The disposition of all military and civilian
property on hand or issued.
(e)A description of the activity in the camp Navajo
fund established by section 26152.
(f)A detailed statement of the national guard
postsecondary education reimbursement program pursuant to section 26-181,
subsection D.
D.The adjutant general, with the approval of the
governor, may:
1.Enter into contracts with individuals, this
state, political subdivisions of this state or the federal government and its
agencies for the purchase, acquisition, rental or lease of lands, buildings or
military materiel and take title in the name of this state for the
establishment and maintenance of armories, subject to legislative appropriation
for these purposes.
2.Procure and contract for procurement of equipment
and its issuance to members of the militia inducted into the service of this
state.
3.Enter into agreements and plans with the state
universities, community colleges or any educational institution supported by
federal or state monies for promotion of the best interests of the national
guard and military training of students of the institutions.
4.Lease property acquired under this chapter for
any public purpose for a period of one year that is renewable.
5.Convey for any public purpose in the name of this
state easements on real property acquired under this chapter.
6.Enter into contracts or agreements with the
federal government that are deemed to be in the best interest of this state and
the national guard.
7.Delegate the powers and duties in this section.
8.Adopt methods of security for the national guard
reservations or facilities that are consistent with the laws, regulations or
directives of the United States department of defense or any subdivision of the
United States department of defense and the laws of this state. END_STATUTE

