







REFERENCE TITLE: guardianship; proceedings; ward's
  relationships







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1296









Introduced by
Senator
  Driggs





AN ACT

amending sections
145101, 145303, 145309 and 145311, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending Title 14, chapter 5, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding sections 14-5316 and 14-5317; relating to guardianship.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 14-5101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Contact" includes in-person contact,
written communication and all forms of electronic communications.
2."Contact
order" means an order allowing contact between a ward and a person with a
significant relationship to the ward.
1.3."Incapacitated
person" means any person who is impaired by reason of mental illness,
mental deficiency, mental disorder, physical illness or disability, chronic use
of drugs, chronic intoxication or other cause, except minority, to the extent
that he lacks sufficient understanding or capacity to make or communicate
responsible decisions concerning his person. In cases of limited guardianship
only, a person is not deemed an incapacitated person for purposes of voting if
the person files a petition,
and has a hearing and the
judge determines by clear and convincing evidence that the person retains
sufficient understanding to exercise the right to vote pursuant to section 145304.02.
2.4."Investigator"
means a person who is appointed by the court under section 145308.
5."Joint
legal decisionmaking" has the same meaning prescribed in section 25401.
6."Legal
decisionmaking" has the same meaning prescribed in section 25401.
7."Parenting
time" has the same meaning prescribed in section 25401.
3.8."Physician"
means a person licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
4.9."Protected
person" means a minor or any other person for whom a conservator has been
appointed or any other protective order has been made.
5.10."Protective
proceeding" means a proceeding under the provisions of section 145401 to determine that a
person cannot effectively manage or apply his estate to necessary ends, either
because he lacks the ability or is otherwise inconvenienced, or because he is a
minor, and to secure administration of his estate by a conservator or other
appropriate relief.
6.11."Psychologist"
means a person licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1.
7.12."Registered
nurse" has the same meaning as prescribed in section 321601.
13."Significant
relationship" means the person either is related to the ward by blood or
marriage or is a close friend of the ward as established by a history of
pattern and practice.
14."Visitation"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 25401.
8.15."Ward"
means a person for whom a guardian has been appointed. "Minor ward"
means a minor for whom a guardian has been appointed solely because of
minority. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 14-5303, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5303.Procedure for court appointment of a guardian of an
alleged incapacitated person
A.The alleged incapacitated person or any person
interested in that person's affairs or welfare may petition for the appointment
of a guardian or for any other appropriate protective order.
B.The petition shall contain a statement that the
authority granted to the guardian may include the authority to withhold or
withdraw life sustaining treatment, including artificial food and fluid, and
shall state, at a minimum and to the extent known, all of the following:
1.The interest of the petitioner.
2.The name, age, residence and address of the
alleged incapacitated person.
3.The name, address and priority for appointment of
the person whose appointment is sought.
4.The name and address of the conservator, if any,
of the alleged incapacitated person.
5.The name and address of the nearest relative of
the alleged incapacitated person known to the petitioner.
6.A general statement of the property of the
alleged incapacitated person, with an estimate of its value and including any
compensation, insurance, pension or allowance to which the person is entitled.
7.The reason why appointment of a guardian or any
other protective order is necessary.
8.The type of guardianship requested. If a general
guardianship is requested, the petition must state that other alternatives have
been explored and why a limited guardianship is not appropriate. If a limited
guardianship is requested, the petition also must state what specific powers
are requested.
9.If a custodial
legal decisionmaking, parenting
time or visitation order was previously entered regarding an
alleged incapacitated person in a child
custody marriage
dissolution, legal separation or paternity action or similar proceeding in this state or another
jurisdiction and the petitioner or proposed guardian is a parent of the alleged incapacitated person
or a nonparent custodian of who has been awarded legal decisionmaking as to the
alleged incapacitated person, the court and case number for that action or
proceeding and include a copy of the
most recent court order regarding legal decisionmaking, parenting time
and visitation.
10.If the appointment of a guardian is necessary
due solely to the physical incapacity of the alleged incapacitated person.
C.On the filing of a petition, the court shall set
a hearing date on the issues of incapacity.Unless the alleged
incapacitated person is represented by independent counsel, the court shall
appoint an attorney to represent that person in the proceeding.The
alleged incapacitated person shall be interviewed by an investigator appointed
by the court and shall be examined by a physician, psychologist or registered
nurse appointed by the court. If the alleged incapacitated person has an
established relationship with a physician, psychologist or registered nurse who
is determined by the court to be qualified to evaluate the capacity of the
alleged incapacitated person, the court may appoint the alleged incapacitated
person's physician, psychologist or registered nurse pursuant to this
subsection.The investigator and the person conducting the
examination shall submit their reports in writing to the court.In addition
to information required under subsection D, the court may direct that either
report include other information the court deems appropriate.The
investigator also shall interview the person seeking appointment as guardian,
visit the present place of abode of the alleged incapacitated person and the
place where it is proposed that the person will be detained or reside if the
requested appointment is made and submit a report in writing to the
court.The alleged incapacitated person is entitled to be present at
the hearing and to see or hear all evidence bearing on that person's
condition.The alleged incapacitated person is entitled to be
represented by counsel, to present evidence, to crossexamine witnesses,
including the courtappointed examiner and investigator, and to trial by
jury.The court may determine the issue at a closed hearing if the
alleged incapacitated person or that person's counsel so requests.
D.A report filed pursuant to this section by a
physician, psychologist or registered nurse acting within that person's scope
of practice shall include the following information:
1.A specific description of the physical,
psychiatric or psychological diagnosis of the person.
2.A comprehensive assessment listing any functional
impairments of the alleged incapacitated person and an explanation of how and
to what extent these functional impairments may prevent that person from
receiving or evaluating information in making decisions or in communicating
informed decisions regarding that person.
3.An analysis of the tasks of daily living the
alleged incapacitated person is capable of performing without direction or with
minimal direction.
4.A list of all medications the alleged
incapacitated person is receiving, the dosage of the medications and a
description of the effects each medication has on the person's behavior to the
best of the declarant's knowledge.
5.A prognosis for improvement in the alleged
incapacitated person's condition and a recommendation for the most appropriate
rehabilitation plan or care plan.
6.Other information the physician, psychologist or
registered nurse deems appropriate. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 14-5309, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5309.Notices in guardianship proceedings
A.In a proceeding for a contact order or modification of a contact order pursuant
to section 145316 or
for the appointment or substitution of a guardian of a ward or an
alleged incapacitated person other than the appointment of a temporary guardian
or temporary suspension of a guardian, notice
of a hearing shall be given to each of the following:
1.The ward or the alleged incapacitated person and
that person's spouse, parents and adult children.
2.Any person who is serving as guardian or
conservator or who has the care and custody of the ward or the alleged
incapacitated person.
3.In case no other person is notified under
paragraph 1 of this subsection, at least one of that person's closest adult
relatives, if any can be found.
4.Any person who has filed a demand for notice.
B.At least fourteen days before the hearing notice
shall be served personally on the ward or the alleged incapacitated person, and that person's spouse
and parents if they can be found within the state.Notice to the
spouse and parents, if they cannot be found within the state, and to all other
persons except the ward or the alleged incapacitated person shall be given as
provided in section 141401.Waiver of notice by the ward or
the alleged incapacitated person is not effective unless that person attends
the hearing. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 14-5311, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5311.Who may be guardian; priorities
A.Any qualified person may be appointed guardian of
an incapacitated person, subject to the requirements of section 145106.
B.The court may consider the following persons for
appointment as guardian in the following order:
1.A guardian or conservator of the person or a
fiduciary appointed or recognized by the appropriate court of any jurisdiction
in which the incapacitated person resides.
2.An individual or corporation nominated by the
incapacitated person if the person has, in the opinion of the court, sufficient
mental capacity to make an intelligent choice.
3.The person nominated to serve as guardian in the
incapacitated person's most recent durable power of attorney or health care
power of attorney.
4.The spouse of the incapacitated person.
5.An adult child of the incapacitated person.
6.A parent of the incapacitated person, including a
person nominated by will or other writing signed by a deceased parent.
7.Any relative of the incapacitated person with
whom the incapacitated person has resided for more than six months before the
filing of the petition.
8.The nominee of a person who is caring for or
paying benefits to the incapacitated person.
9.If the incapacitated person is a veteran, the
spouse of a veteran or the minor child of a veteran, the department of
veterans' services.
10.A fiduciary who is licensed pursuant to section
145651, other than a public fiduciary.
11.A public fiduciary who is licensed pursuant to
section 14-5651.
C.A person listed in subsection B, paragraph 4, 5,
6, 7 or 8 of this section may nominate in writing a person to serve in that
person's place. With respect to persons who have equal priority, the court
shall select the one the court determines is best qualified to serve.
D.Notwithstanding
the priorities set forth in subsection B of this section, if the petition for appointment of a guardian for the
incapacitated person is filed within two years after the INCAPACITATED person's
eighteenth birthday, unless the court finds the appointment to be contrary to the incapacitated person's
best interest:
1.The court
shall appoint as the incapacitated person's guardian any person who, by court
order, had sole legal decision-making of the incapacitated person when the
incapacitated person attained eighteen years of age.
2.If two persons had joint legal decisionmaking
of the incapacitated person when the incapacitated person attained eighteen years of age, the court shall appoint both persons
as the incapacitated
person's co-guardians. 
E.The court
may appoint more than one person as the incapacitated person's coguardians
if the appointment is required by subsection D of this section or the court finds that the
appointment is in the incapacitated person's best interest. If the court
appoints coguardians, the coguardians shall
share decisionmaking for the INCAPACITATED person and neither coguardian's
rights or responsibilities are superior except as otherwise ordered by the court.
D.F.For good cause
the court may pass over a person who has priority and appoint a person who has
a lower priority or no priority.For the purposes of this
subsection, "good cause" includes a determination that: 
1.The incapacitated person's durable power of
attorney or health care power of attorney is invalid.
2.Honoring the incapacitated person's durable power
of attorney or health care power of attorney would not be in the physical,
emotional or financial best interest of the incapacitated person.
3.The estimated cost of the fiduciary and
associated professional fees would adversely affect the ability of the
incapacitated person's estate to provide for the incapacitated person's
reasonable and necessary living expenses.
E.G.On a request by a
person who was passed over by the court pursuant to subsection D F
of this section, the court shall make a specific finding
regarding the court's determination of good cause and why the person was not
appointed. The request must be made within ten days after the entry of the
order. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 14, chapter 5, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 14-5316 and 14-5317, to read:
START_STATUTE14-5316.Maintaining ward's relationships; contact orders;
definitions
A.A guardian shall encourage and allow contact
between the ward and other persons who have a significant relationship with the
ward.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a guardian may limit, restrict or prohibit
contact between the ward and any person if the guardian reasonably believes
that the contact will be detrimental to the ward's health, safety or welfare.
C.In
exercising the guardian's powers pursuant to subsections A and B of this
section, the guardian shall consider the wishes of the ward, if the ward has
sufficient mental capacity to make an intelligent choice.
D.A person
who has a significant relationship to the ward may petition the court for an
order compelling the guardian to allow the person to have contact with the
ward. The petition shall describe the nature of the relationship between the
person and the ward and the type and frequency of contact being requested.The
person has the burden of proving that the person has a significant relationship
with the ward and that the requested contact is in the ward's best interest.
E.A ward
may petition the court for an order compelling the guardian to allow the ward
to have contact with a person who has a significant relationship to the ward.
The petition shall describe the nature of the relationship between the person
and the ward and the type and frequency of contact being requested. The ward
has the burden of proving that the person has a significant relationship with
the ward and that the requested contact is in the ward's best interest.
F.In
determining what, if any, contact between the person and the ward is in the
ward's best interest, the court shall consider all factors that are relevant to
the ward's physical and emotional well-being, including the following:
1.The past
and present relationship between the ward and the person with whom the contact
is requested.
2.The
wishes of the ward if the ward has sufficient mental capacity to make an
intelligent choice.
3.The
mental and physical health of the ward and the person with whom the contact is
requested.
4.Whether
the person with whom the contact is requested has committed any act involving
domestic violence as defined in section 133601, child abuse or abuse,
neglect or exploitation of a vulnerable adult.
5.Whether
the person with whom the contact is requested has abused drugs or alcohol or
has been convicted of any drug offense listed in title 13, chapter 34 or a
violation of title 28, chapter 4, article 3.
6.Whether
the person with whom the contact is requested is listed in the elder abuse
central registry pursuant to section 46-457 or is required to register pursuant
to section 13-3821.
7.Whether the
person with whom the contact is requested has been convicted of a violation of
section 13-2907.02 or 13-2907.04.
g.If the
petition for contact is filed within two years after the ward's eighteenth
birthday, any contact with the ward authorized in the most recent parenting
time or visitation order shall be presumed to be in the ward's best interests,
but the presumption may be rebutted by evidence showing that the contact
authorized in the most recent parenting time or visitation order is no longer in
the ward's best interests.
H.A
fiduciary to the ward or a person who has a significant relationship to the
ward may petition the court to modify a contact order, if a material change in
circumstances affecting the ward's health, safety or welfare has occurred since
the last contact order was made. The petition shall be supported by an
affidavit alleging the change of circumstances that has occurred since the
entry of the last contact order. The court shall deny the petition unless the
court finds that the petition establishes good cause for hearing, in which case
the court shall set a hearing on the petition. The petition and notice of the
hearing on the petition shall be served on all persons to whom notice is
required PURSUANT to section 145309 and on any fiduciary to the ward.
I.A
fiduciary to the ward or a person who has a significant relationship to the
ward may file a motion asking the court to temporarily modify or suspend a
contact order, if a material change in circumstances affecting the ward's
health, safety or welfare has occurred since the last contract order was
made.The motion shall be supported by an affidavit alleging the
change of circumstances that has occurred since the entry of the last contact
order.The motion shall be filed contemporaneously with or after the
filing of a petition to modify the prior contact order. The motion shall state
whether the petitioner requests that the prior contact order be modified or
suspended with or without notice to affected persons.
J.The court
may temporarily modify or suspend a contact order without notice only if both
of the following conditions are met:
1.It
clearly appears from specific facts shown in the motion or affidavit that
immediate and irreparable injury, loss or damage likely will result if the
order is not issued before the affected persons can be heard in opposition.
2.The
moving party or the party's attorney certifies to the court in writing the
efforts, if any, that the moving party or the party's attorney has made to give
the notice or the reasons supporting the claim that notice should not be
required.
K.If the
court grants a motion to temporarily modify or suspend a contact order without
notice, the court shall set a hearing on the motion.
L.An order
temporarily modifying or suspending a contact order that is granted without
notice shall state the injury, loss or damage that would have been likely to
occur if the order were not issued before giving the affected persons the
opportunity to be heard in opposition. The temporary order shall expire at the
date and time set for the hearing on the motion unless the temporary order is
extended by the court for good cause.
M.The
moving party shall personally serve the person whose contact with the ward has
been modified or suspended with a copy of the order and notice of the
hearing.The moving party shall have served a copy of the order on
any fiduciary to the ward and all persons affected by the order as soon as
practicable after issuance of the order in the manner prescribed in section
14-5309 or as otherwise ordered by the court.
N.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Abuse"
in relation to a vulnerable adult has the same meaning prescribed in section
46-451.
2."Child
abuse" means abuse as defined in section 8201 of an individual who is under eighteen
years of age.
3."Exploitation"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 46-451.
4."Neglect"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 46-451.
5."Vulnerable
adult" has the same meaning prescribed in section 46451. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-5317.Notice of ward's hospitalization or death; definition
A.Unless otherwise ordered by the court, if the
ward dies or is admitted to a hospital, the guardian, within twenty-four hours
of learning of the ward's death or hospitalization, shall notify all family
members of the death or hospitalization.
B.For the
purposes of this section, "family members" means the ward's spouse,
parents, adult siblings and adult children. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

