







REFERENCE TITLE: child support action; affirmative
  defense







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1299









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs: Barto, Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
25503, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to child support.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 25-503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE25-503.Order for support; methods of payment; modification;
termination; statute of limitations; judgment on arrearages; notice; security
A.In any proceeding in which there is at issue the
support of a child, the court may order either or both parents to pay any
amount necessary for the support of the child.If the court order
does not specify the date when current support begins, the support obligation
begins to accrue on the first day of the month following the entry of the
order. If a personal check for support payments and handling fees is
rightfully dishonored by the payor bank or other drawee, any subsequent support
payments and handling fees shall be paid only by cash, money order, cashier's
check, traveler's check or certified check.The department may
collect from the drawer of a dishonored check or draft an amount allowed
pursuant to section 446852.Pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, the department shall deposit monies collected pursuant to
this subsection in a child support enforcement administration
fund.If a party required to pay support other than by personal
check demonstrates full and timely payment for twentyfour consecutive
months, that party may pay support by personal check if these payments are for
the full amount, are timely tendered and are not rightfully dishonored by the
payor bank or other drawee.On a showing of good cause, the court
may order that the party or parties required to pay support give reasonable
security for these payments.If the court sets an appearance bond
and the obligor fails to appear, the bond is forfeited and credited against any
support owed by the party required to pay support. This subsection does not
apply to payments that are made by means of a wage assignment.
B.On a showing that an income withholding order has
been ineffective to secure the timely payment of support and that an amount
equal to six months of current support has accrued, the court shall require the
obligor to give security, post bond or give some other guarantee to secure
overdue support.
C.In title IVD cases, and in all other cases
subject to an income withholding order issued on or after January 1, 1994,
after notice to the party entitled to receive support, the department or its
agent may direct the party obligated to pay support or other payor to make
payment to the support payment clearinghouse.The department or its
agent shall provide notice by first class mail.
D.The obligation for current child support shall be
fully met before any payments under an order of assignment may be applied to
the payment of arrearages. If a party is obligated to pay support for more
than one family and the amount available is not sufficient to meet the total
combined current support obligation, any monies shall be allocated to each
family as follows:
1.The amount of current support ordered in each
case shall be added to obtain the total support obligation.
2.The ordered amount in each case shall be divided
by the total support obligation to obtain a percentage of the total amount due.
3.The amount available from the obligor's income
shall be multiplied by the percentage under paragraph 2 of this subsection to
obtain the amount to be allocated to each family.
E.Any order for child support may be modified or terminated
on a showing of changed circumstance that is substantial and continuing, except
as to any amount that may have accrued as an arrearage before the date of
notice of the motion or order to show cause to modify or terminate. The
addition of health insurance coverage as defined in section 25531 or a
change in the availability of health insurance coverage may constitute a
continuing and substantial change in circumstance.Modification and
termination are effective on the first day of the month following notice of the
petition for modification or termination unless the court, for good cause
shown, orders the change to become effective at a different date but not
earlier than the date of filing the petition for modification or
termination.The order of modification or termination may include an
award of attorney fees and court costs to the prevailing party.
F.On petition of a person who has been ordered to
pay child support pursuant to a presumption of paternity established pursuant
to section 25814, the court may order the petitioner's support to
terminate if the court finds based on clear and convincing evidence that
paternity was established by fraud, duress or material mistake of fact. Except
for good cause shown, the petitioner's support obligations continue in effect
until the court has ruled in favor of the petitioner. The court shall order
the petitioner, each child who is the subject of the petition and the child's
mother to submit to genetic testing and shall order the appropriate testing procedures
to determine the child's inherited characteristics, including blood and tissue
type. If the court finds that the petitioner is not the child's biological
father, the court shall vacate the determination of paternity and terminate the
support obligation. Unless otherwise ordered by the court, an order vacating a
support obligation is prospective and does not alter the petitioner's
obligation to pay child support arrearages or any other amount previously
ordered by the court. If the court finds that it is in the child's best
interests, the court may order the biological father to pay restitution to the
petitioner for any child support paid before the court ruled in favor of the
petitioner pursuant to this subsection.
G.Notwithstanding subsection E of this section, in
a title IVD case a party, or the department or its agent if there is an
assignment of rights under section 46407, may request every three years
that an order for child support be reviewed and, if appropriate,
adjusted.The request may be made without a specific showing of a
changed circumstance that is substantial and continuing.The
department or its agent shall conduct the review in accordance with the child
support guidelines of this state. If appropriate, the department shall file a
petition in the superior court to adjust the support amount. Every three years
the department or its agent shall notify the parties of their right to request
a review of the order for support.The department or its agent shall
notify the parties by first class mail at their last known address or by
including the notice in an order.
H.If a party in a title IVD case requests a
review and adjustment sooner than three years, the party shall demonstrate a
changed circumstance that is substantial and continuing.
I.The right of a party entitled to receive support
or the department to receive child support payments as provided in the court
order vests as each installment falls due. Each vested child support
installment is enforceable as a final judgment by operation of
law.The department or its agent or a party entitled to receive
support may also file a request for written judgment for support arrearages.
J.An
obligor may plead as an affirmative defense in whole or in part to a petition
for enforcement of child support arrears that the obligee voluntarily
relinquished to the obligor physical custody of a child.In
determining whether the relinquishment was voluntary, the court shall consider
whether there is any evidence or history of domestic violence, parental
kidnapping or custodial interference. The RELINQUISHMENT must have been for a
time period in excess of any courtordered period of parenting time and
the obligor must have supplied actual support for the child.
J.K.If the obligee,
the department or their agents make efforts to collect a child support debt
more than ten years after the emancipation of the youngest child subject to the
order, the obligor may assert as a defense, and has the burden to prove, that
the obligee or the department unreasonably delayed in attempting to collect the
child support debt. On a finding of unreasonable delay a tribunal, as defined
in section 251202, may determine that some or all of the child support
debt is no longer collectible after the date of the finding.
K.L.Notwithstanding
any other law, any judgment for support and for associated costs and attorney
fees is exempt from renewal and is enforceable until paid in full.
L.M.If a party
entitled to receive child support or spousal maintenance or the department or
its agent enforcing an order of support has not received court ordered
payments, the party entitled to receive support or spousal maintenance or the
department or its agent may file with the clerk of the superior court a request
for judgment of arrearages and an affidavit indicating the name of the party
obligated to pay support and the amount of the arrearages. The request must
include notice of the requirements of this section and the right to request a
hearing within twenty days after service in this state or within thirty days
after service outside this state. The request, affidavit and notice must be
served pursuant to the Arizona rules of family law procedure on all parties
including the department or its agents in title IVD cases. In a title
IVD case, the department or its agent may serve all parties by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Within twenty days after service in this state
or within thirty days after service outside this state, a party may file a
request for a hearing if the arrearage amount or the identity of the person is
in dispute. If a hearing is not requested within the time provided, or if the
court finds that the objection is unfounded, the court must review the
affidavit and grant an appropriate judgment against the party obligated to pay
support. 
M.N.If after
reasonable efforts to locate the obligee the clerk or support payment
clearinghouse is unable to deliver payments for a period of one hundred twenty
days after the date the first payment is returned as undeliverable due to the
failure of a party to whom the support has been ordered to be paid to notify
the clerk or support payment clearinghouse of a change in address, the clerk or
support payment clearinghouse shall return that and all other unassigned
payments to the obligor unless there is an agreement of the obligor to pay
assigned arrears and other debts owed to the state.
N.O.If the obligee of
a child support order marries the obligor of the child support order, that
order automatically terminates on the last day of the month in which the
marriage takes place and arrearages do not accrue after that date. However,
the obligee or the state may collect child support arrearages that accrued
before that date. The obligee, the obligor or the department or its agent in a
title IVD case may file a request or stipulation to terminate or adjust
any existing order of assignment,
pursuant to section 25504 or section
25505.01.
O.P.For the purposes
of this chapter, a child is emancipated:
1.On the date of the child's marriage.
2.On the child's eighteenth birthday.
3.When the child is adopted.
4.When the child dies.
5.On the termination of the support obligation if
support is extended beyond the age of majority pursuant to section 25501,
subsection A or section 25320, subsections E and F. END_STATUTE

