







REFERENCE TITLE: uniform transfers to minors; age







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1200









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood; Representatives Andrade: Cardenas





AN ACT

Amending section
14-7651, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona uniform transfers to
minors act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 14-7651, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-7651.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Adult" means a person who is at least twentyone eighteen years of age.
2."Benefit plan" means an employer's plan
for the benefit of an employee or partner.
3."Broker" means a person who is lawfully engaged in the business of
effecting transactions in securities or commodities for the person's own
account or for the account of others.
4."Conservator" means a person who is appointed or qualified
by a court to act as a general, limited or temporary guardian of a minor's
property or a person who is legally
authorized to perform substantially the same functions.
5."Court" means the superior court.
6."Custodial property" means an interest
in property that is transferred to a custodian pursuant to this article and
income from and proceeds of that interest in property.
7."Custodian" means a person who is designated pursuant to
section 147659 or a successor or substitute custodian who is designated pursuant to section 147668.
8."Financial institution" means a bank,
trust company, savings institution or credit union, which that
is chartered and supervised under state or federal law.
9."Legal representative" means an
individual's personal representative or conservator.
10."Member of the minor's family" means
the minor's parent, stepparent, spouse, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle or
aunt, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption.
11."Minor" means a person who is under the age of twentyone years eighteen years of age.
12."Person" means an individual,
corporation, organization or other legal entity.
13."Personal representative" means an
executor, administrator, successor personal representative or special
administrator of a decedent's estate or a person who is legally authorized to perform
substantially the same functions.
14."State" includes a state of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and a
territory or possession subject to the legislative authority of the United
States.
15."Street name or nominee name" means
registration used by a broker or financial institution for holding securities
if they are not registered in the name of the beneficial owner.
16."Transfer" means a transaction that
creates custodial property pursuant to section 147659.
17."Transferor" means a person who makes
a transfer pursuant to this article.
18."Trust company" means a financial
institution, corporation or other legal entity, which that
is authorized to exercise general trust powers. END_STATUTE

