







REFERENCE TITLE: 2016 tax correction act







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1289









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending sections
36-798.06, 41-561, 42-3001, 42-3303, 42-3304, 42-3401, 423406, 42-3452,
42-3456, 42-5015, 42-5071, 42-5075, 42-5159, 42-5162, 426002, 42-17002,
43-1021, 43-1121, 43-1122, 43-1127 and 43-1130.01, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to taxation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-798.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-798.06.Delivery sales prohibited; common carriers; civil penalty;
forfeiture; unlawful practice; exceptions; violation; classification;
definitions
A.A person shall not do either of the following:
1.Cause a tobacco product to be ordered or
purchased by anyone other than a licensed person or a retailer who orders or
purchases from a licensed person, including by ordering or purchasing a tobacco
product.
2.Knowingly provide substantial assistance to a
person who violates this section.
B.A common carrier shall not knowingly transport a
tobacco product for a person who is in violation of this section.
C.Each order or purchase of a tobacco product in
violation of subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section constitutes a separate
violation under this section.
D.In addition to any other penalty, a person who
violates this section is subject to all of the following:
1.A civil penalty in an amount not to exceed five
thousand dollars for each violation.
2.An injunction to restrain a threatened or actual
violation of this section.
3.Recovery by this state for:
(a)The costs of any investigation related to a
violation of this section.
(b)The cost of expert witness fees in any action
related to a violation of this section.
(c)The cost of the action related to a violation of
this section.
(d)Reasonable attorney fees.
4.All state tobacco taxes due under title 42,
chapter 3, except as prohibited under
section 42-3402, and all transaction privilege or use taxes due
under title 42, chapter 5, including any penalties and interest.
E.All tobacco products that are seized for a
violation of this section shall be forfeited to the state and destroyed
pursuant to section 421124.
F.A violation of this section is an unlawful
practice under section 441522 and is in addition to all other causes of
action, remedies and penalties that are available to this state.The
attorney general may investigate and take appropriate action pursuant to title
44, chapter 10, article 7.
G.This section does not apply to either of the
following:
1.The shipment of a tobacco product to a foreign
trade zone that is established under 19 United States Code section 81 and title
44, chapter 18 and that is located in this state if the tobacco product is from
outside of this country, was ordered by a distributor in another state and is
not distributed in this state.
2.A government employee who is acting in the course
of the employee's official duties.
H.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 6 felony.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Licensed person" means a person who is
required to be licensed under section 423401.
2."Order or purchase" means any of the
following:
(a)By mail or delivery service.
(b)Through the internet or a computer network.
(c)By telephone.
(d)Through any other
electronic method.
3."Person" means an individual,
partnership, firm, association, corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, joint venture or other entity.
4."Retailer" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 425001.
5."Tobacco product" means all luxuries
included in section 423052, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7.Tobacco
product does not include pipe tobacco or cigars. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-561, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-561.Economic estimates commission; members; vacancies;
limitation
A.There shall be an economic estimates commission
composed of the following three members:
1.The director of the department of revenue or the director's designee, who
shall serve as chairman.
2.One person, who shall be knowledgeable in the
field of economics, appointed by the president of the senate.
3.One person, who shall be knowledgeable in the
field of economics, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
B.The appointive commission members shall be
appointed for a term of two years and shall receive compensation determined
pursuant to section 38611.
C.Vacancies in commission membership shall be
filled for the balance of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
D.No member of the commission shall be a member of
the legislature. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-3001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3001.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Affix" and "affixed" include
imprinting tax meter stamps on packages and individual containers as authorized
by the department.
2."Brand family" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 447111.
3."Cider" means vinous liquor that is
made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe apples,
pears or other pome fruit, including flavored, sparkling and carbonated cider
and cider made from condensed apple, pear or other pome fruit must, and that
contains more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume but not more
than seven percent of alcohol by volume.
4."Cigar" means any roll of tobacco wrapped
in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco other than any roll of
tobacco that is a cigarette, as defined in paragraph 5, subdivision (b) of this
section.
5."Cigarette" means either of the
following:
(a)Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or any
substance not containing tobacco.
(b)Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance
containing tobacco that, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in
the filler or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to or purchased
by a consumer as a cigarette described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
This subdivision shall be interpreted consistently with the classification
guidelines established by the federal alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau.
6."Consumer" means a person in this state
that comes into possession of any luxury subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter and that, on coming into possession of the luxury, is not a distributor
intending to sell or distribute the luxury, retailer or wholesaler.
7."Craft distiller" means a distiller in
the United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that
holds a license pursuant to section 4205.10.
8."Distributor" means any person that
manufactures, produces, ships, transports or imports into this state or in any
manner acquires or possesses for the purpose of making the first sale of the
following:
(a)Cigarettes without Arizona tax stamps affixed as
required by this article.
(b)Roll-your-own tobacco or other tobacco products
on which the taxes have not been paid as required by this chapter.
9."Farm winery" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 4-101.
10."First sale" means the initial sale or
distribution in intrastate commerce or the initial use or consumption of
cigarettes, rollyour-own tobacco or other tobacco products.
11."Luxury" means any article, object or
device on which a tax is imposed under this chapter.
12."Malt liquor" means any liquid that
contains more than onehalf of one percent alcohol by volume and that is
made by the process of fermentation and not distillation of hops or grains, but
not including:
(a)Liquids made by the process of distillation of
such substances.
(b)Medicines that are unsuitable for beverage
purposes.
13."Master settlement agreement" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 447101.
14."Microbrewery" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 4101.
15."Nonparticipating manufacturer" has
the same meaning prescribed in section 447111.
16."Other tobacco products" means tobacco
products other than cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco.
17."Participating manufacturer" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 447111.
18."Person" means any individual, firm,
partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, municipal corporation,
estate, trust, club, society or other group or combination acting as a unit,
and the plural as well as the singular number.
19."Place of business" means a place building, facility site or location where an
order is received or where tobacco products are sold, distributed or
transferred. Place of business does
not include a vehicle.
20."Retailer" means any person that comes
into possession of any luxury subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter for
the purpose of selling it for consumption and not for resale.
21."Roll-your-own tobacco" means any
tobacco that, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling, is
suitable for use and likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as
tobacco for making cigarettes. This paragraph shall be interpreted
consistently with the term as used in section 447101.This
paragraph shall be interpreted consistently with the classification guidelines
established by the federal alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau.
22."Smoking
tobacco" means any tobacco that, because of its appearance, type,
packaging, labeling or promotion, is suitable for use and likely to be offered
to or purchased by consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or pipe tobacco,
or otherwise consumed by burning and inhaling.
22.23."Spirituous
liquor" means any liquid that contains more than onehalf of one
percent alcohol by volume, that is produced by distillation of any fermented
substance and that is used or prepared for use as a
beverage.Spirituous liquor does not include medicines that are
unsuitable for beverage purposes.
23.24."Tobacco
product manufacturer" has the same meaning prescribed in section 447101.
24.25."Tobacco
products" means all luxuries included in section 423052, paragraphs
5 through 9.
25.26."Vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or property is or may be transported
or drawn on the roads of this state regardless of the means by which it is
propelled or whether it runs on a track.
26.27."Vinous
liquor" means any liquid that contains more than onehalf of one
percent alcohol by volume and that is made by the process of fermentation of
grapes, berries, fruits, vegetables or other substances but does not include:
(a)Liquids in which hops or grains are used in the
process of fermentation.
(b)Liquids made by the process of distillation of
hops or grains.
(c)Medicines that are unsuitable for beverage
purposes.
27.28."Wholesaler"
means a person that sells any spirituous, vinous or malt liquor taxed under
this chapter to retail dealers or for the purposes of resale only. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-3303, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3303.Tax on the consumer; precollection and remission by
distributor
A.The taxes levied pursuant to this article are
conclusively presumed to be direct taxes on the consumer but shall be
precollected and remitted to the department by the distributor for purposes of
convenience and facility only.The taxes that the distributor
precollects and pays to the department:
1.Are considered to be an advance payment.
2.Shall be added to the price of the cigarettes,
cigars, smoking tobacco, plug tobacco, snuff and other forms of tobacco.
3.Shall be recovered from the consumer.
B.For the purpose of the precollection and
remittance of the tax imposed by this article, the distributor shall purchase obtain and affix revenue stamps pursuant to
article 11 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-3304, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3304.Exemptions; rules
A.The tax levied by this article does not apply to
cigarettes, cigars, smoking tobacco, plug tobacco, snuff and other forms of
tobacco:
1.For which the taxes imposed by article 6 of this
chapter have been paid.
2.That are sold by an Indian tribe, or by a
federally licensed Indian trader, on an Indian reservation to Indians who are
enrolled members of the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation
was established.
3.That are exempt from tax under 26 United States
Code section 5701 5704 and that are distributed
according to federal regulations.
B.The department shall adopt rules prescribing the
procedures for claiming and verifying sales that are exempt under this section.
END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-3401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3401.Tobacco distributor licenses; application; conditions;
revocations, suspensions and cancellations
A.Every distributor acquiring or possessing for the
purpose of making the initial sale or distribution in this state of any tobacco
products on which a tax is imposed by this chapter shall obtain from the
department a license to sell tobacco products.The application for
the license shall be in the form provided by the department and shall be
accompanied by a fee of twentyfive dollars for each place of business
listed in the application. The form shall state that the identity of the
applicant may be posted to the department's website for public
inspection.The application for a license shall include the
applicant's name and address, the applicant's principal place of business, all
other places of business where the applicant's business is conducted for the
purpose of making the initial sale or distribution of tobacco products in this
state, including any location that maintains an inventory of tobacco products
and any other information required by the department.If the
applicant is a firm, partnership, limited liability company, limited liability
partnership or association, the applicant shall list the name and address of
each of the applicant's members. If the applicant is a corporation, the
application shall list the name and address of the applicant's officers and any
person who directly or indirectly owns an aggregate amount of ten percent or
more of the ownership interest in the corporation.If a licensee
changes its business location, the licensee under this subsection shall notify
the department within thirty days after a change in location.If the
licensee is making a change in its business location by adding or replacing one
or more additional places of business that are not currently listed on its
application, the licensee must remit a fee of twentyfive dollars for
each additional place of business.
B.For the purposes of subsection A of this section,
an applicant with a controlling interest in more than one business engaged in
activities as a distributor shall apply for a single license encompassing all
such businesses and list each place of business in its application. For the
purposes of this subsection, "controlling interest" means direct or
indirect ownership of at least eighty percent of the voting shares of a
corporation or of the interests in a company, business or person other than a
corporation.
C.The department shall issue a license authorizing
the applicant to acquire or possess tobacco products in this state upon the
condition that the applicant complies with this chapter and the rules of the
department.The license:
1.Shall be
nontransferable. A licensee may not transfer its license to a new owner when
selling its business, and any court-appointed trustee, receiver or other person
shall obtain a license in its own name in cases of liquidation, insolvency or
bankruptcy if the business remains in operation as a distributor of tobacco
products. A licensee shall apply for a new license if it changes its legal
entity status or otherwise changes the legal structure of its business.
2.Shall be valid for one year unless earlier
revoked by the department.
3.Shall be displayed in a conspicuous place at the
licensee's place of business.If the licensee operates from more
than one place of business, the licensee must display a copy of its license in
a conspicuous place at each location.
D.As a condition of
licensure under this section, an applicant agrees to the following conditions:
1.A person may not hold
or store any tobacco products, whether within or outside of this state, for
sale or distribution in this state by or on behalf of a distributor at any
place other than a location that has been disclosed to the department pursuant
to subsection A of this section. This paragraph does not include a person
holding or storing tobacco products by or on behalf of the distributor when the
tobacco products are in transit to a distributor or retailer as part of a
lawful sale.
2.All tobacco products
held or stored, whether within or outside of this state, for sale or
distribution in this state by or on behalf of a distributor shall be accessible
to the department during normal business hours without a judicial warrant or
prior written consent of the distributor, excluding residential locations.
E.A person who is convicted of an offense described
in section 421127, subsection E is permanently ineligible to hold a
license issued under this section.
F.The department may not issue or renew a license
to an applicant and may revoke a license issued under subsection C of this
section if any of the following applies:
1.The applicant owes one thousand dollars or more
in delinquent cigarette taxes that are not under protest or subject to a
payment agreement.
2.The department has revoked any license held by
the applicant within the previous two years.
3.The applicant has been convicted of a crime that
relates to stolen or counterfeit cigarettes.
4.The applicant has imported cigarettes into the
United States for sale or distribution in violation of 19 United States Code
section 1681a.
5.The applicant has imported cigarettes into the
United States for sale or distribution without fully complying with the federal
cigarette labeling and advertising act (P.L. 89-92; 79 Stat. 282; 15 United
States Code section 1331).
6.The applicant is in violation of section 133711
or section 36798.06,
subsection A.
7.Pursuant to section 447111, section 6(a),
the applicant is in violation of section 447111, section 3(c).
8.The applicant's civil rights have been suspended
under section 13904.An applicant whose civil rights have
been suspended will be ineligible to hold a license for a period of five years
following the restoration of the applicant's civil rights.
G.In addition to any other civil or criminal
penalty and except as otherwise provided in this section, the department may
suspend or revoke a license issued under subsection C of this section if the
person violates any requirement under this title more than two times within a
three-year period.
H.The department shall publish on its website the
names of each person who is issued a license under subsection C of this section, including any trade names or business names
used by the licensee.The department shall update the
published names at least once each month.
I.A person may not
apply for or hold a distributor's license if that person does not engage in the
activities described in subsection A of this section.In addition to
any other applicable penalty, the department may:
1.Revoke the license of
any licensee that fails to file a return or report required under this chapter
for twelve consecutive months.
2.Cancel the license of
any licensee that fails to incur any tax liability under this chapter for
twelve consecutive months.
J.Any suspension,
revocation or denial of a license issued under this section must comply with
section 411092.11, subsection B.
K.Notwithstanding
any other law, for the purposes of subsection F, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
section, section 421127, subsection C and section 423461,
subsection B, if a distributor has listed in its application more than one
place of business, any suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a distributor's
license shall apply only with effect to remove the place of business at which
the activity occurred that resulted in the violation from the distributor's
license.If such a removal occurs, the distributor shall be subject
to restrictions that the department prescribes by rule. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 42-3406, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3406.Refunds and rebates of tobacco taxes; supporting
documentation; distributor's burden of proof
A.Except as otherwise provided under subsection B
of this section or by the department for a refund or redemption issued under section 423008 or 423460,
a distributor requesting any refund or rebate of taxes paid on tobacco products
pursuant to article 2, 6, 7 or 9 of this chapter shall establish entitlement to
the refund or rebate by obtaining a report executed by the retailer that purchased
the tobacco products on which the distributor paid taxes, indicating the name
and address of the retailer and the quantities of tobacco products sold,
separately identified by the tax category of tobacco product and the necessary
facts to establish the appropriate amount of refund or rebate.The
report is subject to the following conditions:
1.The report shall be provided in the form and
manner prescribed by the department.Under such rules as it may
prescribe, the department may identify transactions for which a distributor may
not rely solely on the information in the retailer's report but must instead
obtain additional information as required by the rules in order to be entitled
to the refund or rebate.
2.The burden of proof for the refund or rebate is
on the distributor, but if the distributor complies in all other respects with
this section, the department may require the retailer that caused the execution
of the report to establish the accuracy and completeness of the information
required to be contained in the report that would entitle the distributor to
the refund or rebate.If the retailer cannot establish the accuracy
and completeness of the information, the retailer is liable in an amount equal
to any tax, penalty and interest that the distributor would have been liable
for under this chapter if the distributor had not otherwise complied with this
section. Payment of the amount under this section by the retailer exempts the
distributor from liability for the underlying tax, penalty and
interest.All amounts paid by a retailer under this paragraph shall
be treated as tax revenues collected from the distributor in order to designate
the distribution base for the purposes of this chapter.
B.In its discretion and in circumstances where a
retailer is uncooperative or no longer in business, the department may accept
proof other than a report described in subsection A of this section if the
distributor shows, to the satisfaction of the department, that it exercised
ordinary business care and prudence but was unable to furnish a report executed
by the retailer. Acceptable forms of proof presented by the distributor
pursuant to this subsection must consist of books, records or papers containing the information required by
subsection A of this section as maintained by the distributor or
retailer in the regular course of business. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 42-3452, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3452.Payment of tax required to sell, distribute or transfer
tobacco products
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, a person may not:
1.Sell,
or offer for sale, distribute or transfer any cigarettes upon tobacco products on which a tax is imposed by
this chapter to any person within this state unless at the time of the sale,
distribution or transfer the tax has been paid. on the
cigarettes as The
department shall consider tobacco taxes paid at the time of the sale,
distribution or transfer of cigarettes if evidenced by an Arizona
tax stamp or any other official indicia affixed
to the package by a licensed distributor.The
department shall consider tobacco taxes paid at the time of the sale,
distribution or transfer of tobacco products other than cigarettes if a
licensed distributor reports and remits the taxes on the products in accordance
with the manner, method and time prescribed by section 423501.Sworn
returns that are prepared and remitted by a licensed distributor under section
423501 constitute official indicia that tobacco taxes have been paid on
the tobacco products.
2.Sell cigarettes that have Arizona tax stamps
affixed unless the tax evidenced by the stamps is actually paid. The
department shall not refund any amount of that tax on the grounds that the
stamps are not required to be affixed to the cigarettes.
B.A distributor licensed pursuant to section 423401
may not sell, distribute or transfer tobacco products for which the distributor
is licensed to another such licensed distributor without paying the tax at the
time of the sale, distribution or transfer. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section
42-3456, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-3456.Tax stamps as indicia of taxes paid; exception;
definitions
A.Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, all cigarettes on which a tax is imposed by
this chapter shall be placed in packages or containers, and on each package or
container shall be affixed an official stamp described in section 423455.
An affixed stamp shall be evidence that the taxes levied by sections 423052,
423251 and 423251.01 are paid.
B.Distributors are liable for affixing official
stamps or otherwise applying tax indicia to cigarettes that are subject to a
tax imposed by this chapter.A licensed distributor shall apply a
stamp to each package of cigarettes that is sold or distributed in this state and
that is subject to tax under this chapter, including cigarettes that are
subject to tax under section 423302. A licensed distributor shall apply
a tax exempt stamp to cigarette packages that are not subject to tax under
section 423304, subsection A, paragraph 2.
C.Cigarettes that are sold, distributed or
transferred by a distributor licensed pursuant to section 423401 to sell
cigarettes are required to have affixed the luxury stamps described in section
423455 at the time the cigarettes are sold, distributed or transferred
to another licensed distributor.
D.Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, a
licensed distributor can submit a written request in the form and manner
prescribed by the department in rule or procedure to sell, distribute or
transfer unstamped cigarettes to another licensed distributor. Once an
accurate and complete request is submitted to the department, the department
will approve or deny the request as prescribed in rule or procedure within ten
days of receipt of the request.
E.Cigarettes that are exempt from tax under 26
United States Code section 5701
5704 and that are
distributed according to federal regulations are not subject to tax and do not
require a stamp under this chapter.
F.A retailer shall not offer for sale cigarettes in
quantities that are not packaged as such for sale by the manufacturer.
G.Distributors may apply stamps only to cigarette
packages that the distributors have directly received from a licensed
distributor, manufacturer or importer.
H.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Importer"
means a person who has received approval from the federal alcohol and tobacco
tax and trade bureau to directly or indirectly import finished tobacco products
into the United States for sale or distribution, pursuant to 26 United States
Code section 5712 and 27 Code of Federal Regulations part 41.
2."Manufacturer"
means a person who has received approval from the federal alcohol and tobacco
tax and trade bureau to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, process or label
finished tobacco products, pursuant to 26 United States Code section 5712 and
27 Code of Federal Regulations part 40. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
42-5015, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5015.Filing by electronic means
On or before January 1, 2015, A
taxpayer who is required to pay any transaction privilege and affiliated excise
taxes to this state or a county or municipality may report and pay the required
tax through electronic means.The electronic system shall be
administered by the department of revenue.The department may enter
into an agreement with the cities and towns that did not have an
intergovernmental contract or agreement in effect as of January 1, 2013 with
the department to provide for unified or coordinated licensing, collection and
auditing programs for the cities and towns to contribute to the payment of the
electronic system through money or resources.The electronic system
shall:
1.Include a single
point for licensing, filing a single return and paying transaction privilege
and affiliated excise taxes for all state, county and municipal taxing
jurisdictions.
2.Consolidate data in a
manner compatible with the data systems of the department of revenue.
3.Capture data with
sufficient specificity to meet the needs of the taxing jurisdictions.
4.Allow for
identification of the correct taxing jurisdictions and tax rates based on the
place where the transaction is sourced. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 42-5071, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5071.Personal property rental classification; definitions
A.The personal property rental classification is
comprised of the business of leasing or renting tangible personal property for
a consideration. The tax does not apply to:
1.Leasing or renting films, tapes or slides used by
theaters or movies, which are engaged in business under the amusement
classification, or used by television stations or radio stations.
2.Activities engaged in by the Arizona exposition
and state fair board or county fair commissions in connection with events
sponsored by such entities.
3.Leasing or renting tangible personal property by
a parent corporation to a subsidiary corporation or by a subsidiary corporation
to another subsidiary of the same parent corporation if taxes were paid under
this chapter on the gross proceeds or gross income accruing from the initial
sale of the tangible personal property.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "subsidiary" means a corporation of which at least eighty
percent of the voting shares are owned by the parent corporation.
4.Operating coinoperated washing, drying and
dry cleaning machines or coinoperated car washing machines at
establishments for the use of such machines.
5.Leasing or renting tangible personal property for
incorporation into or comprising any part of a qualified environmental
technology facility as described in section 411514.02.This
paragraph shall apply for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years
following the initial lease or rental by each qualified environmental
technology manufacturer, producer or processor.
6.Leasing or renting aircraft, flight simulators or
similar training equipment to students or staff by nonprofit, accredited
educational institutions that offer associate or baccalaureate degrees in
aviation or aerospace related fields.
7.Leasing or renting photographs, transparencies or
other creative works used by this state on internet websites, in magazines or
in other publications that encourage tourism.
8.Leasing or renting
certified ignition interlock devices installed pursuant to the requirements
prescribed by section 281461. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"certified ignition interlock device" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 281301.
9.The leasing or renting of space to make
attachments to utility poles, as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in business under
section 425063 or 425064 or that is a cable operator.
(b)To a person that is engaged in business under
section 425063 or 425064 or that is a cable operator.
B.The tax base for the personal property rental
classification is the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
business, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Reimbursements by the lessee to the lessor of a
motor vehicle for payments by the lessor of the applicable fees and taxes
imposed by sections 282003, 282352, 282402, 282481
and 285801, title 28, chapter 15, article2 and article IX, section
11, Constitution of Arizona, to the extent such amounts are separately
identified as such fees and taxes and are billed to the lessee.
2.Leases or rentals of tangible personal property
that, if it had been purchased instead of leased or rented by the lessee, would
have been exempt under:
(a)Section 425061, subsection A, paragraph
8, 9, 12, 13, 25, 29, 49 or 53.
(b)Section 425061, subsection B, except that
a lease or rental of new machinery or equipment is not exempt pursuant to:
(i)section
425061, subsection B, paragraph 13 if the lease is for less than two
years.
(ii)Section
425061, subsection B, paragraph 21.
(c)Section 425061, subsection I, paragraph
1.
(d)Section 425061, subsection M.
3.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel that are subject
to a tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, sales of use fuel to a
holder of a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued under section 285739
and sales of aviation fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under section 288344.
4.Leasing or renting a motor vehicle subject to and
on which the fee has been paid under title 28, chapter 16, article 4.
5.Amounts received by a motor vehicle dealer for
the first month of a lease payment if the lease and the lease payment for the
first month of the lease are transferred to a thirdparty leasing
company.
C.Sales of tangible personal property to be leased
or rented to a person engaged in a business classified under the personal
property rental classification are deemed to be resale sales.
D.In computing the tax base, the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income from the lease or rental of a motor vehicle does not
include any amount attributable to the car rental surcharge under section 5839,
285810 or 484234.
E.Until December 31, 1988, leasing or renting
animals for recreational purposes is exempt from the tax imposed by this
section. Beginning January 1, 1989, the gross proceeds or gross income from
leasing or renting animals for recreational purposes is subject to taxation
under this section.Tax liabilities, penalties and interest paid for
taxable periods before January 1, 1989 shall not be refunded unless the
taxpayer requesting the refund provides proof satisfactory to the department
that the monies paid as taxes will be returned to the customer.
F.For the purposes of this section:
1."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed by section 9505.
2."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 42-5075, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5075.Prime contracting classification; exemptions; definitions
A.The prime contracting classification is comprised
of the business of prime contracting and the business of manufactured building
dealer.Sales for resale to another manufactured building dealer are
not subject to tax.Sales for resale do not include sales to a
lessor of manufactured buildings.The sale of a used manufactured
building is not taxable under this chapter.
B.The tax base for the prime contracting
classification is sixtyfive percent of the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from the business.The following amounts shall
be deducted from the gross proceeds of sales or gross income before computing
the tax base:
1.The sales price of land, which shall not exceed
the fair market value.
2.Sales and installation of groundwater measuring
devices required under section 45604 and groundwater monitoring wells
required by law, including monitoring wells installed for acquiring information
for a permit required by law.
3.The sales price of furniture, furnishings, fixtures,
appliances and attachments that are not incorporated as component parts of or
attached to a manufactured building or the setup site. The sale of such items
may be subject to the taxes imposed by article 1 of this chapter separately and
distinctly from the sale of the manufactured building.
4.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract entered into for the modification of any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured building or other structure,
project, development or improvement located in a military reuse zone for
providing aviation or aerospace services or for a manufacturer, assembler or
fabricator of aviation or aerospace products within an active military reuse
zone after the zone is initially established or renewed under section 411531.To
be eligible to qualify for this deduction, before beginning work under the
contract, the prime contractor must have applied for a letter of qualification
from the department of revenue.
5.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract to construct a qualified environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing facility, as described in section 411514.02,
and from subsequent construction and installation contracts that begin within
ten years after the start of initial construction.To qualify for
this deduction, before beginning work under the contract, the prime contractor
must obtain a letter of qualification from the department of
revenue.This paragraph shall apply for ten full consecutive
calendar or fiscal years after the start of initial construction.
6.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income from
a contract to provide for one or more of the following actions, or a contract
for site preparation, constructing, furnishing or installing machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property, including structures necessary
to protect exempt incorporated materials or installed machinery or equipment,
and tangible personal property incorporated into the project, to perform one or
more of the following actions in response to a release or suspected release of
a hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant from a facility to the
environment, unless the release was authorized by a permit issued by a
governmental authority:
(a)Actions to monitor, assess and evaluate such a
release or a suspected release.
(b)Excavation, removal and transportation of
contaminated soil and its treatment or disposal.
(c)Treatment of contaminated soil by vapor
extraction, chemical or physical stabilization, soil washing or biological
treatment to reduce the concentration, toxicity or mobility of a contaminant.
(d)Pumping and treatment or in situ treatment of
contaminated groundwater or surface water to reduce the concentration or
toxicity of a contaminant.
(e)The installation of structures, such as cutoff
walls or caps, to contain contaminants present in groundwater or soil and
prevent them from reaching a location where they could threaten human health or
welfare or the environment.
This paragraph does not include
asbestos removal or the construction or use of ancillary structures such as
maintenance sheds, offices or storage facilities for unattached equipment,
pollution control equipment, facilities or other control items required or to
be used by a person to prevent or control contamination before it reaches the
environment.
7.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from a contract for the installation, assembly, repair or
maintenance of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property that is
either deducted from the tax base of the retail classification under section 425061,
subsection B or that is exempt from use tax under section 425159,
subsection B and that has independent functional utility, pursuant to the
following provisions:
(a)The deduction provided in this paragraph
includes the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from all of the
following:
(i)Any activity performed on machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property with independent functional utility.
(ii)Any activity performed on any tangible personal
property relating to machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
with independent functional utility in furtherance of any of the purposes
provided for under subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(iii)Any activity that is related to the activities
described in items (i) and (ii) of this subdivision, including inspecting the
installation of or testing the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property.
(b)The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from the portion of any
contracting activity that consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property that is either deducted from the tax base of the retail classification
under section 425061, subsection B or exempt from use tax under section
425159, subsection B.
(c)The deduction provided in this paragraph shall
be determined without regard to the size or useful life of the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property.
(d)For the purposes of this paragraph,
"independent functional utility" means that the machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property can independently perform its function
without attachment to real property, other than attachment for any of the
following purposes:
(i)Assembling the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property.
(ii)Connecting items of machinery, equipment or
other tangible personal property to each other.
(iii)Connecting the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property, whether as an individual item or as a system of
items, to water, power, gas, communication or other services.
(iv)Stabilizing or protecting the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property during operation by bolting,
burying or performing other similar nonpermanent connections to either real
property or real property improvements.
8.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
attributable to the purchase of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property that is exempt from or deductible from transaction privilege and use
tax under:
(a)Section 425061, subsection A, paragraph
25, 29, 57 or 59.
(b)Section 425061, subsection B.
(c)Section 425159, subsection A, paragraph
13, subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (j), (k), (m) or (n) or paragraph
54 or 56.
(d)Section 425159, subsection B.
9.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract for the construction of an environmentally controlled
facility for the raising of poultry for the production of eggs and the sorting,
cooling and packaging of eggs.
10.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from a contract entered into with a person who is engaged in the
commercial production of livestock, livestock products or agricultural,
horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or products in this state
for the modification of any building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement used directly
and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water or land
pollution.
11.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income that
is derived from the installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of clean
rooms that are deducted from the tax base of the retail classification pursuant
to section 425061, subsection B, paragraph 16.
12.For taxable periods beginning from and after
June 30, 2001, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a
contract entered into for the construction of a residential apartment housing
facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy for low income persons
over sixtytwo years of age and that is owned by a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
13.For taxable periods beginning from and after
December 31, 1996 and ending before January 1, 2017, the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract to provide and install a solar
energy device.The contractor shall register with the department as
a solar energy contractor. By registering, the contractor acknowledges that it
will make its books and records relating to sales of solar energy devices
available to the department for examination.
14.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a launch site, as
defined in 14 Code of Federal Regulations section 401.5.
15.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a domestic
violence shelter that is owned and operated by a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code.
16.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from contracts to perform postconstruction treatment of real property
for termite and general pest control, including wood destroying organisms.
17.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from contracts entered into before July 1, 2006 for constructing a
state university research infrastructure project if the project has been
reviewed by the joint committee on capital review before the university enters
into the construction contract for the project.For the purposes of
this paragraph, "research infrastructure" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 151670.
18.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
received from a contract for the construction of any building, or other
structure, project, development or improvement owned by a qualified business
under section 411516 for harvesting or processing qualifying forest
products removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516
if actual construction begins before January 1, 2024. To qualify for this
deduction, the prime contractor must obtain a letter of qualification from the
Arizona commerce authority before beginning work under the contract.
19.Any amount of the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income attributable to development fees that are incurred in relation to
a contract for construction, development or improvement of real property and
that are paid by a prime contractor or subcontractor.For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(a)The attributable amount shall not exceed the
value of the development fees actually imposed.
(b)The attributable amount is equal to the total
amount of development fees paid by the prime contractor or subcontractor, and
the total development fees credited in exchange for the construction of,
contribution to or dedication of real property for providing public
infrastructure, public safety or other public services necessary to the development.The
real property must be the subject of the development fees.
(c)"Development fees" means fees imposed
to offset capital costs of providing public infrastructure, public safety or
other public services to a development and authorized pursuant to section 9463.05,
section 111102 or title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the
fees are paid.
20.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract entered into for the construction of a mixed waste
processing facility that is located on a municipal solid waste landfill and
that is constructed for the purpose of recycling solid waste or producing
renewable energy from landfill waste. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Mixed waste
processing facility" means a solid waste facility that is owned, operated
or used for the treatment, processing or disposal of solid waste, recyclable
solid waste, conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste or household
hazardous waste.For the purposes of thissubdivision,
"conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste",
"household hazardous waste" and "solid waste facility" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 49701,except that solid
waste facility does include a site that stores, treats or processes paper,
glass, wood, cardboard, household textiles, scrap metal, plastic, vegetative
waste, aluminum, steel or other recyclable material.
(b)"Municipal
solid waste landfill" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49701.
(c)"Recycling"
means collecting, separating, cleansing, treating and
reconstitutingrecyclable solid wastethat would otherwise become
solid waste, but does not include incineration or other similar processes.
(d)"Renewable
energy" has the same meaning prescribed in section 411511.
C.Entitlement to the
deduction pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 7 of this section is subject to
the following provisions:
1.A prime contractor
may establish entitlement to the deduction by both:
(a)Marking the invoice
for the transaction to indicate that the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income derived from the transaction was deducted from the base.
(b)Obtaining a
certificate executed by the purchaser indicating the name and address of the
purchaser, the precise nature of the business of the purchaser, the purpose for
which the purchase was made, the necessary facts to establish the deductibility
of the property under section 425061, subsection B, and a certification
that the person executing the certificate is authorized to do so on behalf of
the purchaser. The certificate may be disregarded if the prime contractor has
reason to believe that the information contained in the certificate is not
accurate or complete.
2.A person who does not
comply with paragraph 1 of this subsection may establish entitlement to the
deduction by presenting facts necessary to support the entitlement, but the
burden of proof is on that person.
3.The department may
prescribe a form for the certificate described in paragraph 1, subdivision (b)
of this subsection. The department may also adopt rules that describe the
transactions with respect to which a person is not entitled to rely solely on
the information contained in the certificate provided in paragraph 1,
subdivision (b) of this subsection but must instead obtain such additional
information as required in order to be entitled to the deduction.
4.If a prime contractor
is entitled to a deduction by complying with paragraph 1 of this subsection,
the department may require the purchaser who caused the execution of the certificate
to establish the accuracy and completeness of the information required to be
contained in the certificate that would entitle the prime contractor to the
deduction.If the purchaser cannot establish the accuracy and
completeness of the information, the purchaser is liable in an amount equal to
any tax, penalty and interest that the prime contractor would have been
required to pay under article 1 of this chapter if the prime contractor had not
complied with paragraph 1 of this subsection. Payment of the amount under this
paragraph exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under
article 4 of this chapter.The amount shall be treated as a
transaction privilege tax to the purchaser and as tax revenues collected from
the prime contractor in order to designate the distribution base for purposes
of section 425029.
D.Subcontractors or
others who perform modification activities are not subject to tax if they can
demonstrate that the job was within the control of a prime contractor or contractors
or a dealership of manufactured buildings and that the prime contractor or
dealership is liable for the tax on the gross income, gross proceeds of sales
or gross receipts attributable to the job and from which the subcontractors or
others were paid.
E.Amounts received by a
contractor for a project are excluded from the contractor's gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from the business if the person who hired the
contractor executes and provides a certificate to the contractor stating that
the person providing the certificate is a prime contractor and is liable for
the tax under article 1 of this chapter. The department shall prescribe the
form of the certificate. If the contractor has reason to believe that the
information contained on the certificate is erroneous or incomplete, the
department may disregard the certificate.If the person who provides
the certificate is not liable for the tax as a prime contractor, that person is
nevertheless deemed to be the prime contractor in lieu of the contractor and is
subject to the tax under this section on the gross receipts or gross proceeds
received by the contractor.
F.Every person engaging
or continuing in this state in the business of prime contracting or dealership
of manufactured buildings shall present to the purchaser of such prime
contracting or manufactured building a written receipt of the gross income or
gross proceeds of sales from such activity and shall separately state the taxes
to be paid pursuant to this section.
G.For the purposes of
section 425032.01, the department shall separately account for revenues
collected under the prime contracting classification from any prime contractor
engaged in the preparation or construction of a multipurpose facility, and
related infrastructure, that is owned, operated or leased by the tourism and
sports authority pursuant to title 5, chapter 8.
H.For the purposes of
section 425032.02, from and after September30, 2013, the
department shall separately account for revenues reported and collected under
the prime contracting classification from any prime contractor engaged in the
construction of any buildings and associated improvements that are for the
benefit of a manufacturing facility. For the purposes of this subsection,
"associated improvements" and "manufacturing facility" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 425032.02.
I.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract for lawn maintenance services are
not subject to tax under this section if the contract does not include
landscaping activities.Lawn maintenance service is a service
pursuant to section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 1, and includes lawn
mowing and edging, weeding, repairing sprinkler heads or drip irrigation heads,
seasonal replacement of flowers, refreshing gravel, lawn dethatching,
seeding winter lawns, leaf and debris collection and removal, tree or shrub
pruning or clipping, garden and gravel raking and applying pesticides, as
defined in section 3361, and fertilizer materials, as defined in section
3262.
J.Except as provided in
subsection O of this section, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from landscaping activities are subject to tax under this section.
Landscaping includes installing lawns, grading or leveling ground, installing
gravel or boulders, planting trees and other plants, felling trees, removing or
mulching tree stumps, removing other imbedded plants, building irrigation
berms, installing railroad ties and installing underground sprinkler or watering
systems.
K.The portion of gross
proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the actual direct costs of
providing architectural or engineering services that are incorporated in a
contract is not subject to tax under this section. For the purposes of this
subsection, "direct costs" means the portion of the actual costs that
are directly expended in providing architectural or engineering services.
L.Operating a landfill
or a solid waste disposal facility is not subject to taxation under this
section, including filling, compacting and creating vehicle access to and from
cell sites within the landfill. Constructing roads to a landfill or solid waste
disposal facility and constructing cells within a landfill or solid waste
disposal facility may be deemed prime contracting under this section.
M.The following apply
in determining the taxable situs of sales of manufactured buildings:
1.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site or to perform the setup in this state, the taxable situs is the
setup site.
2.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer does not contract to deliver the
building to a setup site or does not perform the setup, the taxable situs is
the location of the dealership where the building is delivered to the buyer.
3.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site that is outside this state, the situs is outside this state and
the transaction is excluded from tax.
N.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income attributable to a written contract for design phase
services or professional services, executed before modification begins and with
terms, conditions and pricing of all of these services separately stated in the
contract from those for construction phase services, is not subject to tax
under this section, regardless of whether the services are provided sequential
to or concurrent with prime contracting activities that are subject to tax
under this section.This subsection does not include the gross
proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to construction phase
services.For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Construction
phase services" means services for the execution and completion of any
modification, including the following:
(a)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed on the project, including team
management and coordination, scheduling, cost controls, submittal process
management, field management, safety program, close-out process and warranty
period services.
(b)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to a punch list. For the
purposes of this subdivision, "punch list" means minor items of
modification work performed after substantial completion and before final
completion of the project.
(c)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to change
orders.For the purposes of this subdivision, "change
order" means a written instrument issued after execution of a contract for
modification work, providing for all of the following:
(i)The scope of a
change in the modification work, contract for modification work or other
contract documents.
(ii)The amount of an
adjustment, if any, to the guaranteed maximum price as set in the contract for
modification work. For the purposes of this item, "guaranteed maximum
price" means the amount guaranteed to be the maximum amount due to a prime
contractor for the performance of all modification work for the project.
(iii)The extent of an
adjustment, if any, to the contract time of performance set forth in the
contract.
(d)Administration or
supervision of any modification performed pursuant to change directives. For
the purposes of this subdivision, "change directive" means a written
order directing a change in modification work before agreement on an adjustment
of the guaranteed maximum price or contract time.
(e)Inspection to
determine the dates of substantial completion or final completion.
(f)Preparation of any
manuals, warranties, as-built drawings, spares or other items the prime
contractor must furnish pursuant to the contract for modification work. For
the purposes of this subdivision, "as-built drawing" means a drawing
that indicates field changes made to adapt to field conditions, field changes
resulting from change orders or buried and concealed installation of piping,
conduit and utility services.
(g)Preparation of
status reports after modification work has begun detailing the progress of work
performed, including preparation of any of the following:
(i)Master schedule
updates.
(ii)Modification work
cash flow projection updates.
(iii)Site reports made
on a periodic basis.
(iv)Identification of
discrepancies, conflicts or ambiguities in modification work documents that
require resolution.
(v)Identification of
any health and safety issues that have arisen in connection with the
modification work.
(h)Preparation of daily
logs of modification work, including documentation of personnel, weather
conditions and on-site occurrences.
(i)Preparation of any
submittals or shop drawings used by the prime contractor to illustrate details
of the modification work performed.
(j)Administration or
supervision of any other activities for which a prime contractor receives a
certificate for payment or certificate for final payment based on the progress
of modification work performed on the project.
2."Design phase
services" means services for developing and completing a design for a
project that are not construction phase services, including the following:
(a)Evaluating surveys,
reports, test results or any other information on-site conditions for the
project, including physical characteristics, legal limitations and utility
locations for the site.
(b)Evaluating any
criteria or programming objectives for the project to ascertain requirements
for the project, such as physical requirements affecting cost or projected
utilization of the project.
(c)Preparing drawings
and specifications for architectural program documents, schematic design
documents, design development documents, modification work documents or
documents that identify the scope of or materials for the project.
(d)Preparing an initial
schedule for the project, excluding the preparation of updates to the master
schedule after modification work has begun.
(e)Preparing
preliminary estimates of costs of modification work before completion of the
final design of the project, including an estimate or schedule of values for
any of the following:
(i)Labor, materials,
machinery and equipment, tools, water, heat, utilities, transportation and
other facilities and services used in the execution and completion of
modification work, regardless of whether they are temporary or permanent or
whether they are incorporated in the modifications.
(ii)The cost of labor
and materials to be furnished by the owner of the real property.
(iii)The cost of any
equipment of the owner of the real property to be assigned by the owner to the
prime contractor.
(iv)The cost of any
labor for installation of equipment separately provided by the owner of the
real property that has been designed, specified, selected or specifically
provided for in any design document for the project.
(v)Any fee paid by the
owner of the real property to the prime contractor pursuant to the contract for
modification work.
(vi)Any bond and
insurance premiums.
(vii)Any applicable
taxes.
(viii)Any contingency
fees for the prime contractor that may be used before final completion of the
project.
(f)Reviewing and
evaluating cost estimates and project documents to prepare recommendations on
site use, site improvements, selection of materials, building systems and
equipment, modification feasibility, availability of materials and labor, local
modification activity as related to schedules and time requirements for
modification work.
(g)Preparing the plan
and procedures for selection of subcontractors, including any prequalification
of subcontractor candidates.
3."Professional
services" means architect services, assayer services, engineer services,
geologist services, land surveying services or landscape architect services
that are within the scope of those services as provided in title 32, chapter 1
and for which gross proceeds of sales or gross income has not otherwise been
deducted under subsection K of this section.
O.The gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract with the owner of real property
or improvements to real property for the maintenance, repair, replacement or
alteration of existing property is not subject to tax under this section if the
contract does not include modification activities, except as specified in this
subsection.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from
a de minimis amount of modification activity does not subject the contract or
any part of the contract to tax under this section. For the purposes of this
subsection:
1.Tangible personal
property that is incorporated or fabricated into a project described in this
subsection may be subject to the amount prescribed in section 425008.01.
2.Each contract is
independent of any other contract, except that any change order that directly
relates to the scope of work of the original contract shall be treated the same
as the original contract under this chapter, regardless of the amount of
modification activities included in the change order. If a change order does
not directly relate to the scope of work of the original contract, the change
order shall be treated as a new contract, with the tax treatment of any
subsequent change order to follow the tax treatment of the contract to which
the scope of work of the subsequent change order directly relates.
P.Notwithstanding
subsection O of this section, a contract that primarily involves surface or
subsurface improvements to land and that is subject to title 28, chapter 19, 20
or 22 or title 34, chapter 2 or 6 is taxable under this section, even if the
contract also includes vertical improvements.Agencies that are
subject to procurement processes under those provisions shall include in the
request for proposals a notice to bidders when those projects are subject to
this section. This subsection does not apply to contracts with:
1.Community facilities
districts, fire districts, county television improvement districts, community
park maintenance districts, cotton pest control districts, hospital districts,
pest abatement districts, health service districts, agricultural improvement
districts, county free library districts, county jail districts, county stadium
districts, special health care districts, public health services districts,
theme park districts, regional attraction districts or revitalization
districts.
2.Any special taxing
district not specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection if the district does
not substantially engage in the modification, maintenance, repair, replacement
or alteration of surface or subsurface improvements to land.
Q.Notwithstanding
subsection R, paragraph 10 of this section, a person owning real property who
enters into a contract for sale of the real property, who is responsible to the
new owner of the property for modifications made to the property in the period
subsequent to the transfer of title and who receives a consideration for the
modifications is considered a prime contractor solely for purposes of taxing
the gross proceeds of sale or gross income received for the modifications made
subsequent to the transfer of title. The original owner's gross proceeds of
sale or gross income received for the modifications shall be determined
according to the following methodology:
1.If any part of the
contract for sale of the property specifies amounts to be paid to the original
owner for the modifications to be made in the period subsequent to the transfer
of title, the amounts are included in the original owner's gross proceeds of
sale or gross income under this section.Proceeds from the sale of
the property that are received after transfer of title and that are unrelated
to the modifications made subsequent to the transfer of title are not
considered gross proceeds of sale or gross income from the modifications.
2.If the original owner
enters into an agreement separate from the contract for sale of the real
property providing for amounts to be paid to the original owner for the
modifications to be made in the period subsequent to the transfer of title to
the property, the amounts are included in the original owner's gross proceeds
of sale or gross income received for the modifications made subsequent to the
transfer of title.
3.If the original owner
is responsible to the new owner for modifications made to the property in the
period subsequent to the transfer of title and derives any gross proceeds of
sale or gross income from the project subsequent to the transfer of title other
than a delayed disbursement from escrow unrelated to the modifications, it is
presumed that the amounts are received for the modifications made subsequent to
the transfer of title unless the contrary is established by the owner through
its books, records and papers kept in the regular course of business.
4.The tax base of the
original owner is computed in the same manner as a prime contractor under this
section.
R.For the purposes of this section:
1."Alteration" means an activity or
action that causes a direct physical change to existing property. For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(a)For existing property that is properly
classified as class two property under section 4212002, paragraph 1, subdivision
(c) or paragraph 2, subdivision (c) and that is used for residential purposes,
class three property under section 4212003 or class four property under
4212004, this paragraph does not apply if the contract amount is more
than twenty-five percent of the most recent full cash value established under
chapter 13, article 2 of this title as of the date of any bid for the work or
the date of the contract, whichever value is higher.
(b)For all existing property other than existing
property described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, this paragraph does
not apply if any of the following is true:
(i)The contract amount is more than seven hundred
fifty thousand dollars.
(ii)The scope of work directly relates to more than
forty percent of the existing square footage of the existing property.
(iii)The scope of work involves expanding the
square footage of more than ten percent of the existing property.
(c)Project elements may not be artificially
separated from a contract to cause a project to qualify as an alteration. The
department has the burden of proof that project elements have been artificially
separated from a contract.
(d)If a project for which the owner and the person
performing the work reasonably believed, at the inception of the contract,
would be treated as an alteration under this paragraph and, on completion of
the project, the project exceeded the applicable threshold described in either
subdivision (a) or (b) of this paragraph by no more than twenty-five percent of
the applicable threshold for any reason, the work performed under the contract
qualifies as an alteration.
(e)A change order that directly relates to the
scope of work of the original contract shall be treated as part of the original
contract, and the contract amount shall include any amount attributable to a
change order that directly relates to the scope of work of the original
contract.
(f)Alteration does not include maintenance, repair
or replacement.
2."Contracting" means engaging in
business as a contractor.
3."Contractor" is synonymous with the
term "builder" and means any person or organization that undertakes
to or offers to undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to,
or submits a bid to, or does personally or by or through others, modify any
building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured building or other
structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part of such a
project, including the erection of scaffolding or other structure or works in
connection with such a project, and includes subcontractors and specialty
contractors. For all purposes of taxation or deduction, this definition shall
govern without regard to whether or not such contractor is acting in
fulfillment of a contract.
4."Manufactured building" means a
manufactured home, mobile home or factorybuilt building, as defined in
section 412142.
5."Manufactured building dealer" means a
dealer who either:
(a)Is licensed pursuant to title 41, chapter 16 and
who sells manufactured buildings to the final consumer.
(b)Supervises, performs or coordinates the
excavation and completion of site improvements or the setup or moving of a manufactured building, including
the contracting, if any, with any subcontractor or specialty contractor for the
completion of the contract.
6."Modification"
means construction, grading and leveling ground, wreckage or demolition.
Modification does not include:
(a)Any project
described in subsection O of this section.
(b)Any wreckage or
demolition of existing property, or any other activity that is a necessary
component of a project described in subsection O of this section.
(c)Any mobilization or
demobilization related to a project described in subsection O of this section,
such as the erection or removal of temporary facilities to be used by those
persons working on the project.
7."Modify"
means to make a modification or cause a modification to be made.
8."Owner"
means the person that holds title to the real property or improvements to real
property that is the subject of the work, as well as an agent of the title
holder and any person with the authority to perform or authorize work on the
real property or improvements, including a tenant and a property manager. For
the purposes of subsection O of this section, a person who is hired by a
general contractor that is hired by an owner, or a subcontractor of a general
contractor that is hired by an owner, is considered to be hired by the owner.
9."Prime
contracting" means engaging in business as a prime contractor.
10."Prime
contractor" means a contractor who supervises, performs or coordinates the
modification of any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement, including the
contracting, if any, with any subcontractors or specialty contractors and who
is responsible for the completion of the contract.Except as
provided in subsections E and Q of this section, a person who owns real
property, who engages one or more contractors to modify that real property and
who does not itself modify that real property is not a prime contractor within
the meaning of this paragraph regardless of the existence of a contract for
sale or the subsequent sale of that real property.
11."Replacement"
means the removal from service of one component or system of existing property
or tangible personal property installed in existing property, including
machinery or equipment, and the installation of a new component or system or
new tangible personal property, including machinery or equipment, that provides
the same similar or upgraded design or functionality, regardless of the
contract amount and regardless of whether the existing component or system or
existing tangible personal property is physically removed from the existing
property.
12."Sale of a used
manufactured building" does not include a lease of a used manufactured
building. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 42-5159, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5159.Exemptions
A.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the storage, use or consumption in this state of
the following described tangible personal property:
1.Tangible personal
property, sold in this state, the gross receipts from the sale of which are
included in the measure of the tax imposed by articles 1 and 2 of this chapter.
2.Tangible personal
property, the sale or use of which has already been subjected to an excise tax
at a rate equal to or exceeding the tax imposed by this article under the laws
of another state of the United States. If the excise tax imposed by the other
state is at a rate less than the tax imposed by this article, the tax imposed
by this article is reduced by the amount of the tax already imposed by the
other state.
3.Tangible personal
property, the storage, use or consumption of which the constitution or laws of
the United States prohibit this state from taxing or to the extent that the
rate or imposition of tax is unconstitutional under the laws of the United
States.
4.Tangible personal
property that directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component part
of any manufactured, fabricated or processed article, substance or commodity
for sale in the regular course of business.
5.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, use fuel that is sold
to or used by a person holding a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued
under section 285739, aviation fuel, the sales, distribution or use of
which in this state is subject to the tax imposed under section 288344,
and jet fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under article 8 of this chapter.
6.Tangible personal
property brought into this state by an individual who was a nonresident at the
time the property was purchased for storage, use or consumption by the
individual if the first actual use or consumption of the property was outside
this state, unless the property is used in conducting a business in this state.
7.Purchases of implants
used as growth promotants and injectable medicines, not already exempt under
paragraph 16 of this subsection, for livestock and poultry owned by, or in
possession of, persons who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or
livestock or poultry products, or who are engaged in feeding livestock or
poultry commercially. For the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry"
includes ratites.
8.Livestock, poultry,
supplies, feed, salts, vitamins and other additives for use or consumption in
the businesses of farming, ranching and feeding livestock or poultry, not
including fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides.For the purposes
of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
9.Seeds, seedlings,
roots, bulbs, cuttings and other propagative material for use in commercially
producing agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops in
this state.
10.Tangible personal
property not exceeding two hundred dollars in any one month purchased by an
individual at retail outside the continental limits of the United States for
the individual's own personal use and enjoyment.
11.Advertising
supplements that are intended for sale with newspapers published in this state
and that have already been subjected to an excise tax under the laws of another
state in the United States that equals or exceeds the tax imposed by this
article.
12.Materials that are
purchased by or for publicly funded libraries including school district
libraries, charter school libraries, community college libraries, state
university libraries or federal, state, county or municipal libraries for use
by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or
photographic materials, beginning August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or
digital media materials, beginning July 17, 1994.
13.Tangible personal
property purchased by:
(a)A hospital organized
and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(b)A hospital operated
by this state or a political subdivision of this state.
(c)A licensed nursing
care institution or a licensed residential care institution or a residential
care facility operated in conjunction with a licensed nursing care institution
or a licensed kidney dialysis center, which provides medical services, nursing
services or health related services and is not used or held for profit.
(d)A qualifying health
care organization, as defined in section 425001, if the tangible
personal property is used by the organization solely to provide health and
medical related educational and charitable services.
(e)A qualifying health care
organization as defined in section 425001 if the organization is
dedicated to providing educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family
medical education training for blind and visually impaired children and
children with multiple disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(f)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
United States internal revenue code and that engages in and uses such property
exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical disabilities if the
programs are exclusively for training, job placement, rehabilitation or
testing.
(g)A person that is
subject to tax under this chapter by reason of being engaged in business
classified under section 425075, or a subcontractor working under the
control of a person that is engaged in business classified under section 425075,
if the tangible personal property is any of the following:
(i)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into a structure, project, development or improvement
in fulfillment of a contract.
(ii)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into any project described in section 425075,
subsection O.
(iii)Used in
environmental response or remediation activities under section 425075,
subsection B, paragraph 6.
(h)A person that is not
subject to tax under section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of
a certificate described in section 425009, subsection L, if the property
purchased is incorporated or fabricated by the person into the real property,
structure, project, development or improvement described in the certificate.
(i)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code if the property is purchased from the parent or an
affiliate organization that is located outside this state.
(j)A qualifying
community health center as defined in section 425001.
(k)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent
on a continuing basis at no cost.
(l)A person engaged in
business under the transient lodging classification if the property is a
personal hygiene item or articles used by human beings for food, drink or
condiment, except alcoholic beverages, which are furnished without additional
charge to and intended to be consumed by the transient during the transient's
occupancy.
(m)For taxable periods
beginning from and after June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization
that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and
that provides residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo
years of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the
tangible personal property is used by the organization solely to provide
residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years
of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(n)A qualifying health
sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
(o)A person
representing or working on behalf of any person described in subdivision (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (j), (k), (m) or (n) of this paragraph, if the
tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project
described in section 425075, subsection O.
14.Commodities, as
defined by title 7 United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale
in a warehouse in this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a
contract for future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market
regulated by the United States commodity futures trading commission.
15.Tangible personal
property sold by:
(a)Any nonprofit
organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes and recognized
by the United States internal revenue service under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code.
(b)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or
501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is associated with a
major league baseball team or a national touring professional golfing
association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(c)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4),
501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if the
organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and ranch
animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of
any private shareholder or individual.
16.Drugs and medical
oxygen, including delivery hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the
prescription of a member of the medical, dental or veterinarian profession who
is licensed by law to administer such substances.
17.Prosthetic
appliances, as defined in section 23501, prescribed or recommended by a
person who is licensed, registered or otherwise professionally credentialed as
a physician, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath, homeopath, nurse or
optometrist.
18.Prescription
eyeglasses and contact lenses.
19.Insulin, insulin
syringes and glucose test strips.
20.Hearing aids as
defined in section 361901.
21.Durable medical
equipment that has a centers for medicare and medicaid services common
procedure code, is designated reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a
person who is licensed under title 32, chapter 7, 13, 17 or 29, can withstand
repeated use, is primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is
generally not useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is
appropriate for use in the home.
22.Food, as provided in
and subject to the conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
23.Items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
24.Food and drink
provided without monetary charge by a taxpayer that is subject to section 425074
to its employees for their own consumption on the premises during the
employees' hours of employment.
25.Tangible personal
property that is used or consumed in a business subject to section 425074
for human food, drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
26.Food, drink or
condiment and accessory tangible personal property that are acquired for use by
or provided to a school district or charter school if they are to be either
served or prepared and served to persons for consumption on the premises of a
public school in the school district or on the premises of the charter school
during school hours.
27.Lottery tickets or
shares purchased pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
28.Textbooks, sold by a
bookstore, that are required by any state university or community college.
29.Magazines, other
periodicals or other publications produced by this state to encourage tourist
travel.
30.Paper machine
clothing, such as forming fabrics and dryer felts, purchased by a paper
manufacturer and directly used or consumed in paper manufacturing.
31.Coal, petroleum,
coke, natural gas, virgin fuel oil and electricity purchased by a qualified
environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in
section 411514.02 and directly used or consumed in the generation or
provision of onsite power or energy solely for environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing or environmental
protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full consecutive
calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper manufacturing machine is
placed in service. In the case of an environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor who does not manufacture paper, the time period shall
begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing or production equipment
is placed in service.
32.Motor vehicles that
are removed from inventory by a motor vehicle dealer as defined in section 284301
and that are provided to:
(a)Charitable or
educational institutions that are exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code.
(b)Public educational
institutions.
(c)State universities
or affiliated organizations of a state university if no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
33.Natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
34.Machinery,
equipment, technology or related supplies that are only useful to assist a
person with a physical disability as defined in section 46191 or a
person who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 or
has a head injury as defined in section 413201 to be more independent
and functional.
35.Liquid, solid or
gaseous chemicals used in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining,
refining, metallurgical operations, research and development and, beginning on
January 1, 1999, printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as
part of an integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the
materials from which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or
permitting a chemical or physical change to occur in the materials as part of
the production process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are
used or consumed in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but
does not affect any exemption for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a
commercial printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing,
copying and bookbinding.
36.Food, drink and
condiment purchased for consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or
other institution under the jurisdiction of the state department of
corrections, the department of public safety, the department of juvenile
corrections or a county sheriff.
37.A motor vehicle and
any repair and replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part
of such motor vehicle sold to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee
prescribed in title 28, chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the
business of leasing or renting such property.
38.Tangible personal
property that is or directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component
part of cards used as prescription plan identification cards.
39.Overhead materials
or other tangible personal property that is used in performing a contract
between the United States government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or
repairer, including property used in performing a subcontract with a government
contractor who is a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which
title passes to the government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Overhead
materials" means tangible personal property, the gross proceeds of sales
or gross income derived from which would otherwise be included in the retail
classification, that is used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the
cost of which is charged to an overhead expense account and allocated to
various contracts based on generally accepted accounting principles and
consistent with government contract accounting standards.
(b)"Subcontract"
means an agreement between a contractor and any person who is not an employee
of the contractor for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in
part, are necessary to the performance of one or more government contracts, or
under which any portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more
government contracts is performed, undertaken or assumed, and that includes
provisions causing title to overhead materials or other tangible personal
property used in the performance of the subcontract to pass to the government
or that includes provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a
government contract into the subcontract.
40.Through December 31,
1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a personal property
liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061.From
and after December 31, 1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a
personal property liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061,
if the gross proceeds of the sales were included in the measure of the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter or if the personal property liquidation
was a casual activity or transaction.
41.Wireless
telecommunications equipment that is held for sale or transfer to a customer as
an inducement to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications
services that are taxable under section 425064.
42.Alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215, purchased by a used oil fuel burner who has
received a permit to burn used oil or used oil fuel under section 49426
or 49480.
43.Tangible personal
property purchased by a commercial airline and consisting of food, beverages
and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and beverages, if
those items are to be provided without additional charge to passengers for
consumption in flight.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
44.Alternative fuel
vehicles if the vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted
to operate on alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a
conventional diesel fuel motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an
alternative fuel, as defined in section 1215.
45.Gas diverted from a
pipeline, by a person engaged in the business of:
(a)Operating a natural
or artificial gas pipeline, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment that pressurizes the pipeline.
(b)Converting natural
gas into liquefied natural gas, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment used in the conversion process.
46.Tangible personal
property that is excluded, exempt or deductible from transaction privilege tax
pursuant to section 425063.
47.Tangible personal
property purchased to be incorporated or installed as part of environmental
response or remediation activities under section 425075, subsection B,
paragraph 6.
48.Tangible personal
property sold by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under
section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization produces,
organizes or promotes cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part
of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
49.Prepared food, drink
or condiment donated by a restaurant as classified in section 425074,
subsection A to a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals
to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
50.Application services
that are designed to assess or test student learning or to promote curriculum
design or enhancement purchased by or for any school district, charter school,
community college or state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application services"
means software applications provided remotely using hypertext transfer protocol
or another network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum
design or enhancement" means planning, implementing or reporting on
courses of study, lessons, assignments or other learning activities.
51.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel to a qualified business under section 411516 for off-road
use in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products
removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
52.Repair parts
installed in equipment used directly by a qualified business under section 411516
in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
53.Renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power entity to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
54.Computer data center
equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of
the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use in a
computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority under
section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase,
the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer
its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that
establishes its qualification for the deduction. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "computer data center", "computer data center
equipment", "qualification period" and "qualified
colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
55.Coal acquired from
an owner or operator of a power plant by a person who is responsible for
refining coal if both of the following apply:
(a)The transfer of
title or possession of the coal is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or
possession of the coal is transferred back to the owner or operator of the
power plant after completion of the coal refining process. For the purposes of
this subdivision, "coal refining process" means the application of a
coal additive system that aids the reduction of power plant emissions during
the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue gas.
56.Tangible personal
property incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075,
subsection O, that is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian
reservation for which the owner, as defined in section 425075, of the
project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated
Indian" means an individual native American Indian who is duly registered
on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian
reservation was established.
(b)"Indian
reservation" means all lands that are within the limits of areas set aside
by the United States for the exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by
treaty, law or executive order and that are recognized as Indian reservations
by the United States department of the interior.
(c)"Indian
tribe" means any organized nation, tribe, band or community that is
recognized as an Indian tribe by the United States department of the interior
and includes any entity formed under the laws of the Indian tribe.
57.Cash equivalents, precious metal bullion and
monetized bullion purchased by the ultimate consumer, but coins or other forms
of money for manufacture into jewelry or works of art are subject to tax, and
tangible personal property that is purchased through the redemption of any cash
equivalent by the holder as a means of payment for goods that are subject to
tax under this article is subject to tax.For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Cash equivalents" means items,
whether or not negotiable, that are sold to one or more persons, through which
a value denominated in money is purchased in advance and that may be redeemed
in full or in part for tangible personal property, intangibles or services.
Cash equivalents include gift cards, stored value cards, gift certificates,
vouchers, traveler's checks, money orders or other tangible instruments or
orders.Cash equivalents do not include either of the following:
(i)Items that are sold to one or more persons and
through which a value is not denominated in money.
(ii)Prepaid calling cards for telecommunications
services. 
(b)"Monetized bullion" means coins and
other forms of money that are manufactured from gold, silver or other metals
and that have been or are used as a medium of exchange in this or another
state, the United States or a foreign nation.
(c)"Precious metal bullion" means
precious metal, including gold, silver, platinum, rhodium and palladium, that
has been smelted or refined so that its value depends on its contents and not
on its form.
B.In addition to the
exemptions allowed by subsection A of this section, the following categories of
tangible personal property are also exempt:
1.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job
printing, refining or metallurgical operations. The terms
"manufacturing", "processing", "fabricating",
"job printing", "refining" and "metallurgical" as
used in this paragraph refer to and include those operations commonly
understood within their ordinary meaning. "Metallurgical operations"
includes leaching, milling, precipitating, smelting and refining.
2.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in the process of extracting ores or minerals from the
earth for commercial purposes, including equipment required to prepare the
materials for extraction and handling, loading or transporting such extracted
material to the surface."Mining" includes underground,
surface and open pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal
property sold to persons engaged in business classified under the
telecommunications classification under section 425064, including a
person representing or working on behalf of such a person in a manner described
in section 425075, subsection O, and consisting of central office
switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment, microwave
radio equipment and carrier equipment including optical fiber, coaxial cable and
other transmission media that are components of carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment
or transmission lines used directly in producing or transmitting electrical
power, but not including distribution. Transformers and control equipment used
at transmission substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or
transmitting electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses,
asses, sheep, ratites, swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or
production stock, including sales of breedings or ownership shares in such
animals used for breeding or production.
6.Pipes or valves four
inches in diameter or larger used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial
gas, water or coal slurry, including compressor units, regulators, machinery
and equipment, fittings, seals and any other part that is used in operating the
pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft,
navigational and communication instruments and other accessories and related
equipment sold to:
(a)A person holding a
federal certificate of public convenience and necessity, a supplemental air
carrier certificate under federal aviation regulations (14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121) or a foreign air carrier permit for air transportation
for use as or in conjunction with or becoming a part of aircraft to be used to
transport persons, property or United States mail in intrastate, interstate or
foreign commerce.
(b)Any foreign
government, or sold to persons who are not residents of this state and who will
not use such property in this state other than in removing such property from
this state.
8.Machinery, tools,
equipment and related supplies used or consumed directly in repairing,
remodeling or maintaining aircraft, aircraft engines or aircraft component
parts by or on behalf of a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or
property.
9.Rolling stock, rails,
ties and signal control equipment used directly to transport persons or
property.
10.Machinery or
equipment used directly to drill for oil or gas or used directly in the process
of extracting oil or gas from the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban
mass transit vehicles that are used directly to transport persons or property
for hire or pursuant to a governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass
transportation program and that are sold to bus companies holding a federal
certificate of convenience and necessity or operated by any city, town or other
governmental entity or by any person contracting with such governmental entity
as part of a governmentally adopted and controlled program to provide urban
mass transportation.
12.Groundwater
measuring devices required under section 45604.
13.New machinery and
equipment consisting of tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered
implements, machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and
machinery and equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip
irrigation lines not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and
that are used for commercial production of agricultural, horticultural,
viticultural and floricultural crops and products in this state.For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"New machinery
and equipment" means machinery or equipment that has never been sold at
retail except pursuant to leases or rentals that do not total two years or
more.
(b)"Selfpowered
implements" includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or
equipment used in research and development. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "research and development" means basic and applied
research in the sciences and engineering, and designing, developing or testing
prototypes, processes or new products, including research and development of
computer software that is embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or
new product or that is required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt
under this section to function effectively. Research and development do not
include manufacturing quality control, routine consumer product testing, market
research, sales promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or
psychology, computer software research that is not included in the definition
of research and development, or other nontechnological activities or technical
services.
15.Tangible personal
property that is used by either of the following to receive, store, convert,
produce, generate, decode, encode, control or transmit telecommunications
information:
(a)Any direct broadcast
satellite television or data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47
Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite
television or data transmission facility, if both of the following conditions
are met:
(i)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during
the test period were transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct
broadcast satellite television or data transmission services that operate
pursuant to 47 Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of
those direct broadcast television or data transmission services during the test
period were transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of this paragraph,
"test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive day period
beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal property is
purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service first transmits information to its customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real
property.Clean room:
(a)Includes the
integrated systems, fixtures, piping, movable partitions, lighting and all
property that is necessary or adapted to reduce contamination or to control
airflow, temperature, humidity, chemical purity or other environmental
conditions or manufacturing tolerances, as well as the production machinery and
equipment operating in conjunction with the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the
building or other permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses
the clean room environment.
17.Machinery and
equipment that are used directly in the feeding of poultry, the environmental
control of housing for poultry, the movement of eggs within a production and
packaging facility or the sorting or cooling of eggs.This exemption
does not apply to vehicles used for transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or
equipment, including related structural components, that is employed in
connection with manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining,
mining, natural gas pipelines, metallurgical operations, telecommunications,
producing or transmitting electricity or research and development and that is
used directly to meet or exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal
energy regulatory commission, the United States environmental protection
agency, the United States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department
of environmental quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and
equipment that are used in the commercial production of livestock, livestock
products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or
products in this state, and that
including production by a person
representing or working on behalf of such a person in a manner described in
section 42-5075, subsection O, if the machinery and equipment are
used directly and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or reduce air, water
or land pollution.
20.Machinery or
equipment that enables a television station to originate and broadcast or to
receive and broadcast digital television signals and that was purchased to
facilitate compliance with the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104;
110 Stat. 56; 47 United States Code section 336) and the federal communications
commission order issued April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part
73). This paragraph does not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or
replacement parts purchased for the machinery or equipment described in this
paragraph.
(b)Machinery or
equipment purchased to replace machinery or equipment for which an exemption
was previously claimed and taken under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or
equipment purchased after the television station has ceased analog
broadcasting, or purchased after November 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment
that is purchased from and after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a
qualified business under section 411516 for harvesting or processing
qualifying forest products removed from qualifying projects as defined in
section 411516. To qualify for this exemption, the qualified business
must obtain and present its certification from the Arizona commerce authority
at the time of purchase.
C.The exemptions
provided by subsection B of this section do not include:
1.Expendable
materials.For the purposes of this paragraph, expendable materials
do not include any of the categories of tangible personal property specified in
subsection B of this section regardless of the cost or useful life of that
property.
2.Janitorial equipment
and hand tools.
3.Office equipment,
furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal
property used in selling or distributing activities, other than the
telecommunications transmissions described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of
this section.
5.Motor vehicles
required to be licensed by this state, except buses or other urban mass transit
vehicles specifically exempted pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this
section, without regard to the use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings,
docks, depots and all other materials of whatever kind or character not
specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used
in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and
equipment or tangible personal property used by a contractor in the performance
of a contract.
D.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Revenues received
from sales of ancillary services, electric distribution services, electric
generation services, electric transmission services and other services related
to providing electricity to a retail electric customer who is located outside
this state for use outside this state if the electricity is delivered to a
point of sale outside this state.
2.Revenues received
from providing electricity, including ancillary services, electric distribution
services, electric generation services, electric transmission services and
other services related to providing electricity with respect to which the
transaction privilege tax imposed under section 425063 has been paid.
E.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the purchase of solar energy devices from a
retailer that is registered with the department as a solar energy retailer or a
solar energy contractor.
F.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Fees charged by a
municipally owned utility to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Reimbursement or
contribution compensation to any person or persons owning a utility system for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
G.The
tax levied by this article does not apply to the purchase price of electricity
or natural gas by:
1.A
business that is principally engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations
and that uses at least fiftyone percent of the electricity or natural
gas in the manufacturing or smelting operations.This paragraph does
not apply to gas transportation services.For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Gas
transportation services" means the services of transporting natural gas to
a natural gas customer or to a natural gas distribution facility if the natural
gas was purchased from a supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing"
means the performance as a business of an integrated series of operations that
places tangible personal property in a form, composition or character different
from that in which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product
with a distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not
include processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity
or operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally engaged"
means at least fifty-one percent of the business is a manufacturing or smelting
operation.
(d)"Smelting"
means to melt or fuse a metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying
chemical change, usually to separate the metal.
2.A business that
operates an international operations center in this state and that is certified
by the Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
H.For the purposes of
subsection B of this section:
1."Aircraft"
includes:
(a)An airplane flight
simulator that is approved by the federal aviation administration for use as a
phase II or higher flight simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal
property that is permanently affixed or attached as a component part of an
aircraft that is owned or operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of
persons or property.
2."Other
accessories and related equipment" includes aircraft accessories and
equipment such as ground service equipment that physically contact aircraft at
some point during the overall carrier operation.
I.For the purposes of
subsection D of this section, "ancillary services", "electric
distribution service", "electric generation service",
"electric transmission service" and "other services" have the
same meanings prescribed in section 425063. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section
42-5162, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5162.Monthly return; time for payment; extension of time;
quarterly payment
A.Every retailer
engaged in the business of making sales of tangible personal property the use,
storage or consumption of which is subject to the tax imposed by this article,
and every person who purchases for use, storage or consumption any such
property for which the tax is not paid to the retailer, shall file a return
with the department on or before the twentieth day of the month next succeeding
the month in which the tax accrues
tangible personal property is brought
into this state for use, storage or consumption.The
return shall be on a form prescribed by the department and shall show the
tangible personal property sold for use, storage or consumption or purchased
for use, storage or consumption within the state during the preceding calendar
month.Such return shall be verified by oath or affirmation of the
retailer or person making the report, or his agent, and shall be accompanied by
payment of the tax shown to be due.The return and tax are
delinquent if not postmarked on or before
the twenty-fifth day of the month when due or if not received by
the department on or before the business day preceding the last business day of
that month for those taxpayers electing
to file by mail, or are delinquent if not received by the department on the
business day preceding the last business day of the month when
due for those taxpayers electing to file
in person.
B.The
department, for any taxpayer whose estimated annual liability for taxes imposed
by this article is between five hundred and one thousand two hundred fifty
dollars, may authorize such taxpayer to pay such taxes on a quarterly
basis.The department, for any taxpayer whose estimated annual
liability for taxes imposed by this article is five hundred dollars or less,
may authorize such taxpayer to pay such taxes on an annual basis.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a person who is required to file a return under
chapter 5, article 1 of this title may report and pay the tax liability under
this article on the same return and filing basis as the taxes reported under
chapter 5, article 1 of this title.
C.For good cause shown the department may extend
the time for making a return and paying the tax, but the time for filing the
return shall not be extended beyond the first day of the third month next
succeeding the regular due date of the return. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 42-6002, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6002.Administration; procedures for levy, collection and
enforcement applicable to cities and towns; definition
A.Unless the context otherwise requires, chapter 1
and chapter 5, article 1 of this title govern the administration of the
municipal privilege taxes levied by a city or town.
B.The procedures for levy, collection and
enforcement of payment of transaction privilege and affiliated excise taxes,
including use tax, severance tax, jet fuel excise and use tax, and rental
occupancy tax, levied by a city or town shall be in the same manner as
authorized by chapter 5 of this title. This subsection does not preclude a
city or town from levying a transaction privilege, sales, use or other similar
tax as a result of a person's business activities as provided in articles 1 this article and article 2 of this chapter.
C.An intergovernmental contract or agreement
entered into pursuant to section 426001, subsection A shall include the
following provisions:
1.All audits shall be conducted in accordance with
standard audit procedures defined in the department of revenue audit manual.
2.All auditors shall be trained in accordance with
the policies of the department.
3.An auditor that is trained and authorized to
conduct an audit may not represent any taxpayer in any tax matter.
4.Except as provided in paragraph 5 of this
subsection, the audit of a taxpayer that has locations in two or more cities or
towns shall be conducted by the department.
5.All audits shall include all taxing jurisdictions
in this state regardless of which jurisdiction conducts the audit.A
city or town may conduct an audit of any taxpayer that is engaged in business
in only one city or town and any other taxpayer authorized by the department.
6.The department shall issue all audit assessments
on behalf of all taxing jurisdictions in a single notice to the taxpayer.
7.Appeals of audit assessments shall be directed to
the department.
8.Appeals of audit assessments shall be
administered pursuant to chapter 1, article 6 of this title.
9.The department shall notify all affected cities
and towns before entering into any compromise, closing, settlement or other
agreement with a person related to the tax levied and imposed by the cities and
towns.
D.For the
purposes of this section, "transaction privilege, sales, use or other
similar tax" means any tax imposed under the model city tax code.
END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 42-17002, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-17002.Property tax oversight commission
A.The property tax oversight commission is
established to:
1.Further the public confidence in property tax
limitations.
2.Provide a uniform methodology for determining
those limitations.
3.Provide a continuing review of practices for
ensuring a fair and equitable administration of the property tax laws.
B.The commission consists of:
1.The director of the department of revenue or the director's designee, who
serves as chairman.
2.Four persons who are knowledgeable in the area of
property tax assessment and levy, one appointed by the governor and three
appointed jointly by the president of the senate and the speaker of the house
of representatives.The appointive members' terms are three years.
C.An appointment to fill a vacancy on the
commission resulting from other than expiration of a term is for the unexpired
portion of the term only.
D.The department shall provide secretarial and
staff support services to the commission.
E.The private citizen members of the commission
shall receive fifty dollars per day for time spent in performing their duties.
F.The commission shall meet at least annually and,
in addition, at the call of the chairman.The commission shall meet
at such other times and places as convenient or necessary to conduct its
affairs and shall render its findings, reports and recommendations in writing
to the governor, to the director of the department of revenue and to the
legislature. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 43-1021, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1021.Additions to Arizona gross income
In computing Arizona adjusted gross
income, the following amounts shall be added to Arizona gross income:
1.A beneficiary's share
of the fiduciary adjustment to the extent that the amount determined by section
431333 increases the beneficiary's Arizona gross income.
2.An amount equal to the
ordinary income portion of a lump sum distribution that was excluded from
federal adjusted gross income pursuant to the special rule for individuals who
attained fifty years of age before January 1, 1986 under Public Law 99514,
section 1122(h)(3).
3.The amount of interest
income received on obligations of any state, territory or possession of the
United States, or any political subdivision thereof, located outside the state
of Arizona, reduced, for tax years beginning from and after December 31, 1996,
by the amount of any interest on indebtedness and other related expenses that
were incurred or continued to purchase or carry those obligations and that are
not otherwise deducted or subtracted in arriving at Arizona gross income.
4.The excess of a
partner's share of partnership taxable income required to be included under
chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the income required to be reported
under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
5.The excess of a
partner's share of partnership losses determined pursuant to section 702(a)(8)
of the internal revenue code over the losses allowable under chapter 14,
article 2 of this title.
6.The amount by which the
adjusted basis of property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to
the internal revenue code exceeds the adjusted basis of such property computed
pursuant to this title and the income tax act of 1954, as
amended.This paragraph shall apply to all property that is held for
the production of income and that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the
taxable year, except depreciable property used in a trade or business.
7.Any amount of agricultural water conservation
expenses that were deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code for which a
credit is claimed under section 431084.
8.The amount by which the depreciation or
amortization computed under the internal revenue code with respect to property
for which a credit was taken under section 431080 exceeds the amount of
depreciation or amortization computed pursuant to the internal revenue code on
the Arizona adjusted basis of the property.
9.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under section 431080 and that is sold or otherwise disposed of
during the taxable year exceeds the adjusted basis of the property computed
under section 431080.
10.The amount by which
the depreciation or amortization computed under the internal revenue code with
respect to property for which a credit was taken under either section 431081
or 431081.01 exceeds the amount of depreciation or amortization computed
pursuant to the internal revenue code on the Arizona adjusted basis of the
property.
11.The amount by which the adjusted basis computed
under the internal revenue code with respect to property for which a credit was
claimed under section 431074.02, 431081 or 431081.01 and
that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year exceeds the
adjusted basis of the property computed under section 431074.02, 431081
or 431081.01, as applicable.
12.The deduction referred
to in section 1341(a)(4) of the internal revenue code for restoration of a
substantial amount held under a claim of right.
13.The amount by which a
net operating loss carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to
section 1341(b)(5) of the internal revenue code exceeds the net operating loss
carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 431029,
subsection F.
14.Any amount deducted in
computing Arizona gross income as expenses for installing solar stub outs or
electric vehicle recharge outlets in this state with respect to which a credit
is claimed pursuant to section 431090.
15.Any wage expenses
deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code for which a credit is claimed
under section 431087 and representing net increases in qualified
employment positions for employment of temporary assistance for needy families
recipients.
16.The amount of any
depreciation allowance allowed pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal
revenue code to the extent not previously added.
17.With respect to
property for which an expense deduction was taken pursuant to section 179 of
the internal revenue code in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2013,
the amount in excess of twentyfive thousand dollars.
18.The amount of a
nonqualified withdrawal, as defined in section 151871, from a college
savings plan established pursuant to section 529 of the internal revenue code
that is made to a distributee to the extent the amount is not included in
computing federal adjusted gross income, except that the amount added under
this paragraph shall not exceed the difference between the amount subtracted
under section 431022 in prior taxable years and the amount added under
this section in any prior taxable years.
19.The amount of
discharge of indebtedness income that is deferred and excluded from the
computation of federal adjusted gross income in the current taxable year
pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue code as added by section
1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L.1115).
20.The amount of any
previously deferred original issue discount that was deducted in computing
federal adjusted gross income in the current year pursuant to section 108(i) of
the internal revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and
reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 1115), to the extent that the amount was
previously subtracted from Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431022,
paragraph 24.
21.For
taxable years beginning from and after December 31, 2011 through December 31,
2014, the amount of any deduction that is claimed in computing federal adjusted
gross income for health insurance premiums or contributions to a health savings
account for which a credit is claimed under section 431087.01.
22.21.Amounts that are
considered to be income under section 431032, subsection D because the
amount is withdrawn from a longterm health care savings account and not
used to pay the taxpayer's longterm health care expenses. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 43-1121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1121.Additions to Arizona gross income; corporations
In computing Arizona taxable income for a corporation, the
following amounts shall be added to Arizona gross income:
1.The amount of interest income received on
obligations of any state, territory or possession of the United States, or any
political subdivision thereof, located outside this state, reduced, for tax
years beginning from and after December 31, 1996, by the amount of any interest
on indebtedness and other related expenses that were incurred or continued to
purchase or carry those obligations and that are not otherwise deducted or
subtracted in arriving at Arizona gross income.
2.The excess of a
partner's share of partnership taxable income required to be included under
chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the income required to be reported
under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
3.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
losses determined pursuant to section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code
over the losses allowable under chapter 14, article 2 of this title.
4.The amount by which the adjusted basis of
property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to the internal
revenue code exceeds the adjusted basis of such property computed pursuant to
this title and the income tax act of 1954, as amended.This
paragraph applies to all property that is held for the production of income and
that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year, except
depreciable property used in a trade or business.
5.The amount of any depreciation allowance allowed
pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal revenue code to the extent not
previously added.
6.With respect to property for which an expense
deduction was taken pursuant to section 179 of the internal revenue code in a
taxable year beginning before January 1, 2013, the amount in excess of
twenty-five thousand dollars.
7.The amount of discharge of indebtedness income
that is deferred and excluded from the computation of federal taxable income in
the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue
code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of
2009 (P.L.1115).
8.The amount of any previously deferred original
issue discount that was deducted in computing federal taxable income in the
current year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue code as added
by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of 2009
(P.L.111-5), to the extent that the amount was previously subtracted from
Arizona gross income pursuant to section 43-1122, paragraph 8.
9.For taxable
years beginning from and after December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2014, the
amount of any deduction that is claimed in computing federal taxable income for
health insurance premiums or contributions to a health savings account for
which a credit is claimed under section 431185.
10.9.The amount of
dividend income received from corporations and allowed as a deduction pursuant
to sections 243, 244 and 245 of the internal revenue code.
11.10.Taxes which that are based on income paid to states,
local governments or foreign governments and which
that were deducted in computing federal taxable income.
12.11.Expenses and interest relating
to taxexempt income on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or
carry obligations the interest on which is wholly exempt from the tax imposed
by this title. Financial institutions, as defined in section 6101,
shall be governed by section 43961, paragraph2.
13.12.Commissions,
rentals and other amounts paid or accrued to a domestic international sales
corporation controlled by the payor corporation if the domestic international
sales corporation is not required to report its taxable income to this state
because its income is not derived from or attributable to sources within this
state.If the domestic international sales corporation is subject to
article 4 of this chapter, the department shall prescribe by rule the method of
determining the portion of the commissions, rentals and other amounts which that are paid or accrued to the controlled
domestic international sales corporation and which
that shall be deducted by the payor. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "control" means direct or indirect ownership or control of
fifty per cent or more of the voting stock of the domestic international sales
corporation by the payor corporation.
14.13.The amount of
net operating loss taken pursuant to section 172 of the internal revenue code.
15.14.The amount of
exploration expenses determined pursuant to section 617 of the internal revenue
code to the extent that they exceed seventyfive thousand dollars and to
the extent that the election is made to defer those expenses not in excess of
seventyfive thousand dollars.
16.15.Amortization of
costs incurred to install pollution control devices and deducted pursuant to
the internal revenue code or the amount of deduction for depreciation taken
pursuant to the internal revenue code on pollution control devices for which an
election is made pursuant to section 431129.
17.16.The amount of
depreciation or amortization of costs of child care facilities deducted
pursuant to section 167 or 188 of the internal revenue code for which an
election is made to amortize pursuant to section 431130.
18.17.The loss of an
insurance company that is exempt under section 431201 to the extent that
it is included in computing Arizona gross income on a consolidated return
pursuant to section 43947.
19.18.The amount by
which the depreciation or amortization computed under the internal revenue code
with respect to property for which a credit was taken under section 431169
exceeds the amount of depreciation or amortization computed pursuant to the
internal revenue code on the Arizona adjusted basis of the property.
20.19.The amount by
which the adjusted basis computed under the internal revenue code with respect
to property for which a credit was claimed under section 431169 and which that is sold or otherwise disposed of during
the taxable year exceeds the adjusted basis of the property computed under
section 431169.
21.20.The amount by
which the depreciation or amortization computed under the internal revenue code
with respect to property for which a credit was taken under either section 431170
or 431170.01 exceeds the amount of depreciation or amortization computed
pursuant to the internal revenue code on the Arizona adjusted basis of the
property.
22.21.The amount by
which the adjusted basis computed under the internal revenue code with respect
to property for which a credit was claimed under either section 431170
or 431170.01 and which that is sold or otherwise
disposed of during the taxable year exceeds the adjusted basis of the property
computed under section 431170 or 431170.01, as applicable.
23.22.The deduction
referred to in section 1341(a)(4) of the internal revenue code for restoration
of a substantial amount held under a claim of right.
24.23.The amount by
which a capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 1341(b)(5) of the
internal revenue code exceeds the capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to
section 431130.01, subsectionF.
25.24.Any amount
deducted in computing Arizona taxable income as expenses for installing solar
stub outs or electric vehicle recharge outlets in this state with respect to
which a credit is claimed pursuant to section 431176.
26.25.Any wage
expenses deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code for which a credit is
claimed under section 431175 and representing net increases in qualified
employment positions for employment of temporary assistance for needy families
recipients.
27.26.Any amount of
expenses that were deducted pursuant to the internal revenue code and for which
a credit is claimed under section 431178.
28.27.The amount of
any deduction that is claimed in computing Arizona gross income and that
represents a donation of a school site for which a credit is claimed under
section 431181.
29.28.Any amount
deducted pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code representing
contributions to a school tuition organization for which a credit is claimed
under section 431183 or 431184. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 43-1122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1122.Subtractions from Arizona gross income; corporations
In computing Arizona taxable income for a corporation, the
following amounts shall be subtracted from Arizona gross income:
1.The excess of a partner's share of income
required to be included under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code
over the income required to be included under chapter 14, article 2 of this
title.
2.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
losses determined pursuant to chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the
losses allowable under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
3.The amount by which the adjusted basis of
property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to this title and
the income tax act of 1954, as amended, exceeds the adjusted basis of such
property computed pursuant to the internal revenue code.This paragraph
applies to all property that is held for the production of income and that is
sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year other than depreciable
property used in a trade or business.
4.The amount allowed by section 431025 for
contributions during the taxable year of agricultural crops to charitable
organizations.
5.The portion of any wages or salaries paid or
incurred by the taxpayer for the taxable year that is equal to the amount of
the federal work opportunity credit, the empowerment zone employment credit,
the credit for employer paid social security taxes on employee cash tips and
the Indian employment credit that the taxpayer received under sections 45A,
45B, 51(a) and 1396 of the internal revenue code.
6.With respect to property that is sold or
otherwise disposed of during the taxable year by a taxpayer that complied with
section 431121, paragraph 5 with respect to that property, the amount of
depreciation that has been allowed pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal
revenue code to the extent that the amount has not already reduced Arizona
taxable income in the current taxable
year or prior taxable years.
7.With respect to property for which an adjustment
was made under section 431121, paragraph 6, an amount equal to one-fifth
of the amount of the adjustment pursuant to section 431121, paragraph 6
in the year in which the amount was adjusted under section 431121,
paragraph 6 and in each of the following four years.
8.The amount of any original issue discount that
was deferred and not allowed to be deducted in computing federal taxable income
in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal revenue
code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment act of
2009 (P.L.1115).
9.The amount of previously deferred discharge of
indebtedness income that is included in the computation of federal taxable
income in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal
revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment
act of 2009 (P.L.1115), to the extent that the amount was
previously added to Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431121,
paragraph 7.
10.With respect to a financial institution as
defined in section 6101, expenses and interest relating to taxexempt
income disallowed pursuant to section 265 of the internal revenue code.
11.Dividends received from another corporation
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a recipient
corporation.For the purposes of this paragraph, "control"
means direct or indirect ownership or control of fifty per cent
percent or more of the voting stock of the payor corporation by
the recipient corporation. Dividends shall have the meaning provided in
section 316 of the internal revenue code.This subtraction shall
apply without regard to section 43961, paragraph 2 and article 4 of this
chapter.
12.Interest income received on obligations of the
United States.
13.The amount of dividend income from foreign
corporations.
14.The amount of net operating loss allowed by
section 431123.
15.The amount of any state income tax refunds
received which that were included as income
in computing federal taxable income.
16.The amount of expense recapture included in
income pursuant to section 617 of the internal revenue code for mine
exploration expenses.
17.The amount of deferred exploration expenses
allowed by section 431127.
18.The amount of exploration expenses related to
the exploration of oil, gas or geothermal resources, computed in the same
manner and on the same basis as a deduction for mine exploration pursuant to
section 617 of the internal revenue code.This computation is
subject to the adjustments contained in section 431121, paragraph 15 14 and paragraphs 16 and 17 of this section
relating to exploration expenses.
19.The amortization of pollution control devices
allowed by section 431129.
20.The amount of amortization of the cost of child
care facilities pursuant to section 431130.
21.The amount of income from a domestic
international sales corporation required to be included in the income of its
shareholders pursuant to section 995 of the internal revenue code.
22.The income of an insurance company that is
exempt under section 431201 to the extent that it is included in
computing Arizona gross income on a consolidated return pursuant to section 43947.
23.The amount by which a capital loss carryover
allowable pursuant to section 431130.01, subsection F exceeds the
capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 1341(b)(5) of the internal
revenue code.
24.An amount equal to the depreciation allowable
pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal revenue code for the taxable year
computed as if the election described in section 168(k)(2)(D)(iii) of the
internal revenue code had been made for each applicable class of property in
the year the property was placed in service. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 43-1127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1127.Deferred exploration expenses
A.The amount of exploration expenses added to
Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431121, paragraph 15 14 may be subtracted on a ratable basis as
the units of produced ores or minerals discovered or explored by reason of such
expenditures are sold.An election made for any taxable year shall
be binding for such year.
B.If such property is sold, it shall be treated in
the same manner and on the same basis as property held for the production of
income pursuant to section 431121, paragraph 4 or section 431122,
paragraph3. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 43-1130.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1130.01.Restoration of a substantial amount held under claim of
right; computation of tax
A.This section applies if:
1.An item of income was included in gross income
for a prior taxable year or years because it appeared that the taxpayer had an
unrestricted right to the item.
2.A deduction would be allowable under the internal
revenue code or this title for the taxable year, without application of section
1341(b)(3) of the internal revenue code or section 431121, paragraph 23 22, because after the close of the prior
taxable year or years it was established that the taxpayer did not have an
unrestricted right to all or part of the item.
3.The amount of the deduction exceeds three
thousand dollars.
B.If all of the conditions in subsection A of this
section apply, the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year is an
amount equal to the tax for the taxable year computed without the deduction,
minus the decrease in tax under this chapter for the prior taxable year or
years that would result solely from excluding the item or portion of the item
from gross income for the prior taxable year or years.
C.If the decrease in tax exceeds the tax imposed by
this chapter for the taxable year, computed without the deduction, the excess
is considered to be a payment of tax on the last day prescribed by law for the
payment of tax for the taxable year and shall be refunded or credited in the
same manner as if it were an overpayment for the taxable year.
D.Subsection B of this section does not apply to
any deduction that is allowable with respect to an item that was included in
gross income by reason of the sale or other disposition of stock in trade of
the taxpayer, or other property of a kind that would properly have been
included in the inventory of the taxpayer on hand at the close of the prior
taxable year, or property that is held by the taxpayer primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or
business.This subsection does not apply if the deduction arises out
of refunds or repayments with respect to rates made by a regulated public
utility that is listed in section 7701(a)(33)(A) through (H) of the internal
revenue code, if the refunds or repayments are:
1.Required to be made by the government, political
subdivision, agency or instrumentality referred to in that section.
2.Required to be made by an order of a court.
3.Made in settlement of litigation or under threat
or imminence of litigation.
E.If the exclusion under subsection B of this
section results in:
1.A net operating loss for the prior taxable year
or years for purposes of computing the decrease in tax for the prior year or
years under subsection B of this section:
(a)The loss shall be carried over under this
chapter to the same extent and in the same manner as provided under section 431123,
and under prior law.
(b)No carryover beyond the taxable year may be
taken into account.
2.A capital loss for the prior taxable year or
years, for purposes of computing the decrease in tax for the prior taxable year
or years under subsection B of this section:
(a)The loss shall be:
(i)Carried over under this chapter to the same
extent and in the same manner as was provided under prior law for taxable years
beginning on or before December 31, 1987.
(ii)Carried back and carried over to the same
extent and in the same manner as provided under section 1212 of the internal
revenue code for taxable years beginning from and after December 31, 1987.
(b)No carryover beyond the taxable year may be
taken into account.
F.In computing Arizona taxable income for taxable
years subsequent to the current taxable year, the net operating loss or capital
loss determined in subsection E of this section shall be taken into account to
the same extent and in the same manner as a net operating loss or capital loss
sustained for prior taxable years. END_STATUTE

