







REFERENCE TITLE: executive clemency board; executive
  session







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1229









Introduced by
Senators
  Miranda, Dalessandro: Bradley, Contreras, Meza, Pancrazi; Representatives
  Fernandez, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending section
31401, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the board of executive
clemency.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 31-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-401.Board of executive clemency; qualifications; appointment;
officers; quorum; meeting; executive session
A.The board of executive clemency is established
consisting of five members who are appointed by the governor pursuant to this
subsection and section 38211.
B.The members of the board shall be compensated on
an hourly basis and are not eligible for paid leave. Beginning from and after December 31, 2013,
Members of the board are eligible for any benefits that are provided to state
employees pursuant to section 38651.A member who is acting
as the executive director shall be compensated pursuant to subsection K of this
section. Each member shall be appointed on the basis of broad professional or
educational qualifications and experience and shall have demonstrated an
interest in the state's correctional program.No more than two
members from the same professional discipline shall be members of the board at
the same time.
C.Each member appointed to the board shall complete
a four week fourweek course relating to the duties
and activities of the board.The course shall be designed and
administered by the chairman of the board and shall be conducted by the office
of the board of executive clemency and the office of the attorney
general.The course shall include training in all statutes that
pertain to the board and participation in a decision making decisionmaking workshop.
D.Members shall be appointed for a term of five
years to expire on the third Monday in January of the appropriate year.
E.The
governor may remove a member of the board may be removed by the governor for cause.
F.The governor shall select a member of the board
as chairman.The chairman shall select other officers as are
advisable.The term of the chairman is two years, except that the
chairman may be removed as chairman at the pleasure of the
governor.If a board member's term expires while the member is serving
as chairman, the chair shall be deemed vacant and a new chairman shall be
selected.
G.The board may adopt rules, not inconsistent with
law, as it deems proper for the conduct of its business.The board
may from time to time amend or change the rules and publish and distribute the
rules as provided by the administrative procedures act.
H.The board shall meet at least once a month at the
state prison and at other times or places as the board deems necessary.
I.The presence of three members of the board
constitutes a quorum, except that the chairman may designate that the presence
of two members of the board constitutes a quorum.
J.If two members of the board constitute a quorum
pursuant to subsection I of this section and the two members do not concur on
the action under consideration, the chairman of the board, if the chairman is
not one of the members who constituted the quorum and after reviewing the
information considered by the two members, shall cast the deciding
vote.If the chairman of the board is one of the two members
constituting a quorum at a hearing under subsection I of this section, and
there is not concurrence on the action under consideration, the action fails.
K.Notwithstanding
section 38431.03, the board may meet in executive session to discuss
reprieves, commutations, paroles and pardons.
K.L.The
board shall employ an executive director whose compensation shall be determined
pursuant to section 38611. The chairman of the board may act as the
executive director. END_STATUTE

