







REFERENCE TITLE: resource center fund; purposes







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1210









Introduced by
Senators
  Kavanagh: Allen S, Begay, Burges, Shooter, Smith, Yee; Representatives
  Carter, Lawrence





AN ACT

amending section
412402, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona criminal
justice commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2402.Drug and gang enforcement account; resource center fund
A.A
The drug and gang
enforcement account is established within the criminal justice enhancement fund
consisting of monies appropriated to the account by the legislature and any
other monies available from other sources, public or private, to be used for
the purpose of enhancing efforts to deter, investigate, prosecute, adjudicate
and punish drug offenders and members of criminal street gangs as defined in
section 13105.
B.The Arizona criminal justice commission shall
distribute monies from the drug and gang enforcement account in the following
manner:
1.Up to fifty per cent percent to
fund law enforcement agencies approved by the commission to enhance both:
(a)The investigation of drug and gang offenses and
related criminal activity.
(b)Drug and gang education and prevention programs.
2.Up to fifty per cent percent to
fund programs and agencies approved by the commission to enhance the state,
county, city or town prosecution of drug and gang offenses and related criminal
activity.
3.Up to thirty per cent percent to fund programs and agencies approved by the
commission for the purpose of enhancing the ability of the courts to process
drug and gang offenses and related criminal cases, either through the
appointment of judges pro tempore or the establishment of additional divisions
of the courts only for the purposes of this section, enhancing defense and
probation services, including treatment, and funding the drug testing program.
4.Up to thirty per cent percent to fund programs by county sheriffs and the state
department of corrections, as approved by the commission, to enhance drug
offender treatment programs and the jail operations and facilities available to
detain and incarcerate drug offenders and members of criminal street gangs as
defined in section 13105.
5.Up to thirty per cent percent to fund programs and agencies, as approved by the
commission, to enhance the integration of criminal justice records relating to
drug and gang offenders and their related criminal activity.
C.Any state agency that receives monies allocated
from this account shall not include such
the monies as part of its
continuation budget base for the purpose of requesting appropriations for the
following fiscal year.
D.All the monies allocated from this account shall
be dedicated solely to the purpose of enhancing efforts to deter, investigate,
prosecute, adjudicate and punish drug and gang and related criminal offenders,
except those monies allocated pursuant to subsection G of this section.
E.Notwithstanding the limitations prescribed in
subsection B of this section, any federal monies or matching state monies in
the drug and gang enforcement account may only be allocated by the commission
pursuant to a plan approved by the federal government.
F.The auditor general shall annually perform a full
and complete audit of the fund or the commission shall annually contract with
an accounting firm to perform the audit and deliver a report to the governor
and the legislature.The audit shall be charged to the drug and gang
enforcement account.
G.A
The resource center fund
is established consisting of monies received pursuant to section 12284.03,
subsection A, paragraph 1 and section 41178 and all monies received from
public or private gifts, grants or other sources, excluding federal monies and
monies to be passed through to other entities, to be used solely for the
purpose of funding the Arizona youth survey and arizona statistical analysis center.
Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. Any monies
unexpended or unencumbered on June 30 of each year shall not be subsequently
expended or encumbered unless reappropriated. No Monies in the drug and gang enforcement
account except those received pursuant to this subsection shall not be used to fund the Arizona youth
survey.Monies that are
expended pursuant to this subsection are subject to the reporting requirements
prescribed in section 41617.01. END_STATUTE

