







REFERENCE TITLE: reviser's technical corrections; 2016







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1251









Introduced by
Senator
  Biggs





AN ACT

repealing section
362021, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195,
section 47; amending section 362021, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by laws 2015, chapter 276, section 6; repealing section 362907,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 57;
amending section 362907, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 264, section 1; repealing section 412501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82; amending section 412501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30;
repealing section 413803, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 195, section 83; amending section 413803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 167, section 1; repealing section 413804,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195, section 84;
amending section 413804, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 167, section 2; repealing section 413955.01, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195, section 85; amending
section 413955.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015,
chapter 312, section 1; amending section 413955.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 312, section 2; repealing section 49123,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 208, section 25;
amending section 49123, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2013, chapter 205, section 1; repealing section 49127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, CHAPTER 208, section 26; amending section 49127,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 1989, chapter 238, section 5;
repealing section 49128, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 208, section 27; amending section 49128, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2011, chapter 36, section 1; repealing section 49129,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 208, section 28;
amending section 49129, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
1989, chapter 238, section 7; repealing section 49130, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 208, section 29; amending section 49130,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2002, chapter 138, section 1;
repealing section 49131, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 208, section 30; amending section 49131, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 1989, chapter 238, section 9; repealing section 49132,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 208, section 31;
amending section 49132, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
1991, chapter 315, section 4; repealing laws 2015, chapter 208, section 35;
appropriating monies; relating to MULTIPLE, defective and conflicting
legislative DISPOSITIONS of statutory text.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Purpose
1.Section 362021, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 47 and chapter 276, section 6.
The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the delayed effective
date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends the Laws 2015,
chapter 276 version of section 362021, Arizona Revised Statutes, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 195, and the chapter 195
version is repealed.
2.Section 362907, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 57 and chapter 264, section 1.
The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the delayed effective
date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends the Laws 2015,
chapter 264 version of section 362907, Arizona Revised Statutes, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 195, and the chapter 195
version is repealed.
3.Section 412501, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82 and chapter 257, section 30.
The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the delayed effective
date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends the Laws 2015,
chapter 257 version of section 412501, Arizona Revised Statutes, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 195, and the chapter 195
version is repealed.
4.Section 413803, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 167, section 1 and chapter 195, section 83.
The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the delayed effective
date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends the Laws 2015,
chapter 167 version of section 413803, Arizona Revised Statutes, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 195, and the chapter 195
version is repealed.
5.Section 413804, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 167, section 2 and chapter 195, section 84.
The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the delayed effective
date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends the Laws 2015,
chapter 167 version of section 413804, Arizona Revised Statutes, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 195, and the chapter 195
version is repealed.
6.Section 413955.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, was amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 85 and chapter 312,
sections 1 and 2. The chapter 195 version could not be blended because of the
delayed effective date. In order to combine these versions, this act amends
the Laws 2015, chapter 312, section 1 and section 2 versions of section 413955.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, to incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015,
chapter 195, and the chapter 195 version is repealed.
7.Section 26343, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49123, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was amended
by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 25.However, the amendment of
section 49123, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included in the title
of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section 13,
Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49123, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2013, chapter 205, section 1, to incorporate the
amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208 version is
repealed.
8.Section 26347, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 26.However, the
amendment of section 49127, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included in
the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section 13,
Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 1989, chapter 238, section 5, to incorporate the
amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208 version is
repealed.
9.Section 26348, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49128, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 27.However, the
amendment of section 49128, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included
in the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section
13, Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49128, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2011, chapter 36, section 1, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208
version is repealed.
10.Section 26349, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49129, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 28.However, the
amendment of section 49129, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included
in the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section
13, Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49129, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1989, chapter 238, section 7, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208
version is repealed.
11.Section 26350, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49130, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 29.However, the
amendment of section 49130, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included
in the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section
13, Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49130, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2002, chapter 138, section 1, to incorporate the
amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208 version is
repealed.
12.Section 26351, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49131, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 30.However, the
amendment of section 49131, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included
in the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section
13, Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49131, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1989, chapter 238, section 9, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208
version is repealed.
13.Section 26352, Arizona Revised Statutes,
was transferred and renumbered as section 49132, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, and, as renumbered, was
amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 31.However, the
amendment of section 49132, Arizona Revised Statutes, was not included
in the title of the act. In order to comply with article IV, part 2, section
13, Constitution of Arizona, this act amends section 49132, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1991, chapter 315, section 4, to
incorporate the amendments made by Laws 2015, chapter 208, and the chapter 208
version is repealed.
14.Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 35 transferred
monies, but this appropriation was not included in the title of the act. In
order to comply with article IV, part 2, section 13, Constitution of Arizona,
this act repeals Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 35 and reenacts the transfer
of monies.
Sec.2.Repeal
Section 36-2021,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 47, is
repealed.
Sec.3.Section 36-2021, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 276, section 6, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2021.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administration"
means the Arizona health care cost containment system administration.
1.2."Alcoholic"
means a person who habitually lacks selfcontrol with respect to the use
of alcoholic beverages or who uses alcoholic beverages to the extent that his the person's health is substantially impaired
or endangered or his social
or economic functions are substantially disrupted.
2.3."Approved
private treatment facility" means a private agency meeting the standards
established by the division
department and approved
pursuant to sections 362023 and 362029.
3.4."Approved
public treatment facility" means a treatment agency operating under the
directions and control of a county, providing treatment through a contract with
a county, meeting the standards established by the division department and approved pursuant to sections 362023
and 362029.
4.5."Chronic
alcoholic" means an alcoholic who is incapacitated by alcohol and who
during the preceding twelve months has been admitted to a local alcoholism
reception center on ten or more occasions or has been admitted for three or
more episodes of inpatient or residential alcoholism treatment.
5.6."Court"
means the supreme court, the court of appeals, a superior court, a justice of
the peace court, a municipal court or a city court authorized by charter.
6.7."Department"
means the department of health services.
7."Deputy
director" means the deputy director of the division of behavioral health
in the department of health services.
8."Director" means the director of the department of health services administration.
9."Division"
means the division of behavioral health in the department of health services.
10.9."Evaluation"
means a multidisciplinary
professional analysis of a person's medical, psychological, social, financial
and legal conditions. Persons providing evaluation services shall be properly
qualified professionals and may be fulltime employees of an approved
treatment facility providing evaluation services or may be parttime
employees or may be employed on a contractual basis.
11.10."Incapacitated
by alcohol" means that a person as a result of the use of alcohol is
unconscious or has his judgment
otherwise so impaired that he
the person is incapable
of realizing and making a rational decision with respect to his the
person's need for evaluation and treatment, is unable to take
care of his basic personal
needs or safety such as food, clothing, shelter or medical care or lacks
sufficient understanding or capacity to make or communicate rational decisions concerning himself.
12.11."Intoxicated
person" means a person whose mental or physical functioning is
substantially impaired as a result of the immediate effects of alcohol in his the person's system.
13.12."Local
alcoholism reception center" or "center" means an initial
reception agency for a person who is intoxicated or who is incapacitated by
alcohol to receive initial evaluation and processing for assignment for further
evaluation or into a treatment program.
14.13."Treatment"
means the broad range of emergency, outpatient, intermediate and inpatient
services and care, including diagnostic evaluation, medical, psychiatric,
psychological and social service care, vocational rehabilitation and career
counseling, which may be extended to alcoholics and intoxicated persons. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Section 36-2907,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 57, is
repealed.
Sec.5.Section 36-2907, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 264, section 1, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2907.Covered health and medical services; modifications;
related delivery of service requirements; definition
A.Subject to the limitations and exclusions
specified in this section, contractors shall provide the following medically
necessary health and medical services:
1.Inpatient hospital services that are ordinarily
furnished by a hospital for the care and treatment of inpatients and that are
provided under the direction of a physician or a primary care
practitioner.For the purposes of this section, inpatient hospital
services exclude services in an institution for tuberculosis or mental diseases
unless authorized under an approved section 1115 waiver.
2.Outpatient health services that are ordinarily
provided in hospitals, clinics, offices and other health care facilities by
licensed health care providers. Outpatient health services include services
provided by or under the direction of a physician or a primary care
practitioner.
3.Other laboratory and xray services ordered
by a physician or a primary care practitioner.
4.Medications that are ordered on prescription by a
physician or a dentist licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 11. Persons who
are dually eligible for title XVIII and title XIX services must obtain
available medications through a medicare licensed or certified medicare
advantage prescription drug plan, a medicare prescription drug plan or any
other entity authorized by medicare to provide a medicare part D prescription
drug benefit.
5.Medical supplies, durable medical equipment,
insulin pumps and prosthetic devices ordered by a physician or a primary care
practitioner. Suppliers of durable medical equipment shall provide the
administration with complete information about the identity of each person who
has an ownership or controlling interest in their business and shall comply
with federal bonding requirements in a manner prescribed by the administration.
6.For persons who are at least twentyone
years of age, treatment of medical conditions of the eye, excluding eye examinations
for prescriptive lenses and the provision of prescriptive lenses.
7.Early and periodic health screening and
diagnostic services as required by section 1905(r) of title XIX of the social
security act for members who are under twentyone years of age.
8.Family planning services that do not include
abortion or abortion counseling.If a contractor elects not to
provide family planning services, this election does not disqualify the
contractor from delivering all other covered health and medical services under
this chapter.In that event, the administration may contract
directly with another contractor, including an outpatient surgical center or a
noncontracting provider, to deliver family planning services to a member who is
enrolled with the contractor that elects not to provide family planning
services.
9.Podiatry services ordered by a primary care
physician or primary care practitioner.
10.Nonexperimental transplants approved for title
XIX reimbursement.
11.Ambulance and nonambulance transportation,
except as provided in subsection G of this section.
12.Hospice care.
13.Orthotics, if all of the following apply:
(a)The use of the orthotic is medically necessary
as the preferred treatment option consistent with medicare guidelines.
(b)The orthotic is less expensive than all other
treatment options or surgical procedures to treat the same diagnosed condition.
(c)The orthotic is ordered by a physician or
primary care practitioner.
B.The limitations and exclusions for health and medical
services provided under this section are as follows:
1.Circumcision of newborn males is not a covered
health and medical service.
2.For eligible persons who are at least twentyone
years of age:
(a)Outpatient health services do not include occupational
therapy or speech therapy.
(b)Prosthetic devices do not include hearing aids,
dentures, bone anchored bone-anchored hearing aids or
cochlear implants.Prosthetic devices, except prosthetic implants,
may be limited to twelve thousand five hundred dollars per contract year.
(c)Percussive vests and orthotics are not covered
health and medical services.
(d)Durable medical equipment is limited to items
covered by medicare.
(e)Podiatry services do not include services
performed by a podiatrist.
(f)Nonexperimental transplants do not include pancreas only pancreasonly transplants.
(g)Bariatric surgery procedures, including
laparoscopic and open gastric bypass and restrictive procedures, are not
covered health and medical services.
C.The system shall pay noncontracting providers
only for health and medical services as prescribed in subsection A of this
section and as prescribed by rule.
D.The director shall adopt rules necessary to
limit, to the extent possible, the scope, duration and amount of services,
including maximum limitations for inpatient services that are consistent with
federal regulations under title XIX of the social security act (P.L. 8997;
79 Stat. 344; 42 United States Code section 1396 (1980)). To the extent
possible and practicable, these rules shall provide for the prior approval of
medically necessary services provided pursuant to this chapter.
E.The director shall make available home health
services in lieu of hospitalization pursuant to contracts awarded under this article.
For the purposes of this subsection, "home health services" means the
provision of nursing services, home health aide services or medical supplies,
equipment and appliances that are provided on a parttime or intermittent
basis by a licensed home health agency within a member's residence based on the
orders of a physician or a primary care practitioner. Home health agencies
shall comply with the federal bonding requirements in a manner prescribed by
the administration.
F.The director shall adopt rules for the coverage
of behavioral health services for persons who are eligible under section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a).The
administration shall contract with the department of health services for the
delivery of all medically necessary behavioral health services to persons who
are eligible under rules adopted pursuant to this subsection.The
division of behavioral health in the department of health services
the administration acting through the
regional behavioral health authorities shall establish a
diagnostic and evaluation program to which other state agencies shall refer
children who are not already enrolled pursuant to this chapter and who may be
in need of behavioral health services.In addition to an evaluation,
the division of behavioral health
administration acting through regional
behavioral health authorities shall also identify children who
may be eligible under section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision (a) or
section 362931, paragraph 5 and shall refer the children to the appropriate
agency responsible for making the final eligibility determination.
G.The director shall adopt rules for the provision
of transportation services and rules providing for copayment by members for
transportation for other than emergency purposes.Subject to
approval by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, nonemergency
medical transportation shall not be provided except for stretcher vans and
ambulance transportation.Prior authorization is required for
transportation by stretcher van and for medically necessary ambulance
transportation initiated pursuant to a physician's direction. Prior
authorization is not required for medically necessary ambulance transportation
services rendered to members or eligible persons initiated by dialing telephone
number 911 or other designated emergency response systems.
H.The director may adopt rules to allow the
administration, at the director's discretion, to use a second opinion procedure
under which surgery may not be eligible for coverage pursuant to this chapter
without documentation as to need by at least two physicians or primary care
practitioners.
I.If the director does not receive bids within the
amounts budgeted or if at any time the amount remaining in the Arizona health
care cost containment system fund is insufficient to pay for full contract
services for the remainder of the contract term, the administration, on
notification to system contractors at least thirty days in advance, may modify
the list of services required under subsection A of this section for persons
defined as eligible other than those persons defined pursuant to section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a). The director may also suspend services or may
limit categories of expense for services defined as optional pursuant to title
XIX of the social security act (P.L. 8997; 79 Stat. 344; 42 United
States Code section 1396 (1980)) for persons defined pursuant to section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a). Such reductions or suspensions do not apply to
the continuity of care for persons already receiving these services.
J.Additional, reduced or modified hospitalization
and medical care benefits may be provided under the system to enrolled members
who are eligible pursuant to section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision
(b), (c), (d) or (e).
K.All health and medical services provided under
this article shall be provided in the geographic service area of the member,
except:
1.Emergency services and specialty services
provided pursuant to section 362908.
2.That the director may permit the delivery of
health and medical services in other than the geographic service area in this
state or in an adjoining state if the director determines that medical practice
patterns justify the delivery of services or a net reduction in transportation
costs can reasonably be expected. Notwithstanding the definition of physician
as prescribed in section 362901, if services are procured from a
physician or primary care practitioner in an adjoining state, the physician or
primary care practitioner shall be licensed to practice in that state pursuant
to licensing statutes in that state similar to title 32, chapter 13, 15, 17 or
25 and shall complete a provider agreement for this state.
L.Covered outpatient services shall be
subcontracted by a primary care physician or primary care practitioner to other
licensed health care providers to the extent practicable for purposes
including, but not limited to, making health care services available to
underserved areas, reducing costs of providing medical care and reducing
transportation costs.
M.The director shall adopt rules that prescribe the
coordination of medical care for persons who are eligible for system
services.The rules shall include provisions for the transfer of
patients, the transfer of medical records and the initiation of medical care.
N.For the purposes of this section,
"ambulance" has the same meaning prescribed in section 362201.END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Section 41-2501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82, is
repealed.
Sec.7.Section 41-2501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2501.Applicability
A.This chapter applies only to procurements
initiated after January1, 1985 unless the parties agree to its
application to procurements initiated before that date.
B.This chapter applies to every expenditure of public
monies, including federal assistance monies except as otherwise specified in
section 412637, by this state, acting through a state governmental unit
as defined in this chapter, under any contract, except that this chapter does
not apply to either grants as defined in this chapter, or contracts between
this state and its political subdivisions or other governments, except as
provided in chapter 24 of this title and in article 10 of this
chapter.This chapter also applies to the disposal of state materials.This
chapter and rules adopted under this chapter do not prevent any state
governmental unit or political subdivision from complying with the terms of any
grant, gift, bequest or cooperative agreement.
C.All political subdivisions and other local public
agencies of this state may adopt all or any part of this chapter and the rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, sections 412517
and 412546 apply to any agency as defined in section 411001,
including the office of the governor.
E.The Arizona board of regents and the legislative
and judicial branches of state government are not subject to this chapter
except as prescribed in subsection F of this section.
F.The Arizona board of regents and the judicial
branch shall adopt rules prescribing procurement policies and procedures for
themselves and institutions under their jurisdiction.The rules must
be substantially equivalent to the policies and procedures prescribed in this
chapter.
G.The Arizona state lottery commission is exempt
from this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation of the
lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets and related
materials.The executive director of the Arizona state lottery
commission shall adopt rules substantially equivalent to the policies and
procedures in this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation
of the lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets or related materials.
All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
H.The Arizona health care cost containment system
administration is exempt from this chapter for provider contracts pursuant to
section 362904, subsection A and contracts for goods and services,
including program contractor contracts pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
articles 2 and 3 and contracts with
regional behavioral health authorities pursuant to title 36, chapter 34.All
other procurement, including contracts for the statewide administrator of the
program pursuant to section 362903, subsection B, shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
I.Arizona industries for the blind is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of finished goods from members of national
industries for the blind and for purchases of raw materials for use in the
manufacture of products for sale pursuant to section 411972.All
other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
J.Arizona correctional industries is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of raw materials, components and supplies that are
used in the manufacture or production of goods or services for sale entered
into pursuant to section 411622. All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
K.The state transportation board and the director
of the department of transportation are exempt from this chapter other than
section 412586 for the procurement of construction or reconstruction,
including engineering services, of transportation facilities or highway
facilities and any other services that are directly related to land titles, appraisals,
real property acquisition, relocation, property management or building facility
design and construction for highway development and that are required pursuant
to title 28, chapter 20.
L.The Arizona highways magazine is exempt from this
chapter for contracts for the production, promotion, distribution and sale of
the magazine and related products and for contracts for sole source creative
works entered into pursuant to section 287314, subsection A, paragraph
5. All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
M.The secretary of state is exempt from this
chapter for contracts entered into pursuant to section 411012 to publish
and sell the administrative code.All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
N.This chapter is not applicable to contracts for
professional witnesses if the purpose of such contracts is to provide for
professional services or testimony relating to an existing or probable judicial
proceeding in which this state is or may become a party or to contract for
special investigative services for law enforcement purposes.
O.The head of any state governmental unit, in
relation to any contract exempted by this section from this chapter, has the
same authority to adopt rules, procedures or policies as is delegated to the
director pursuant to this chapter.
P.Agreements negotiated by legal counsel
representing this state in settlement of litigation or threatened litigation
are exempt from this chapter.
Q.This chapter is not applicable to contracts entered
into by the department of economic security:
1.With a provider licensed or certified by an
agency of this state to provide child day care services.
2.With area agencies on aging created pursuant to
the older Americans act of 1965 (P.L. 8973; 79 Stat. 218; 42 United
States Code sections 3001 through 3058ff).
3.For services pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
article 2.
4.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community services
block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible entity
that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672.
R.The department
of health services Arizona
health care cost containment system may not require that persons
with whom it contracts follow this chapter for the purposes of subcontracts
entered into for the provision of the following:
1.Mental health services pursuant to section 36189,
subsection B.
2.Services for the seriously mentally ill pursuant
to title 36, chapter 5, article 10.
3.Drug and alcohol services pursuant to section 36141.
4.S.The department of health
services may not require that persons with whom it contracts follow this
chapter for the purpose of subcontracts entered into for the provision of domestic
violence services pursuant to title 36, chapter 30, article 1.
S.T.The department of
health services is exempt from this chapter for contracts for services of
physicians at the Arizona state hospital.
T.U.Contracts for
goods and services approved by the board of trustees of the public safety
personnel retirement system are exempt from this chapter.
U.V.The Arizona
department of agriculture is exempt from this chapter with respect to contracts
for private labor and equipment to effect cotton or cotton stubble plowup
pursuant to rules adopted under title 3, chapter2, article 1.
V.W.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for purchases of guest supplies and
items for resale such as food, linens, gift items, sundries, furniture, china,
glassware and utensils for the facilities located in the Tonto natural bridge
state park.
W.X.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for the purchase, production,
promotion, distribution and sale of publications, souvenirs and sundry items
obtained and produced for resale.
X.Y.The Arizona state
schools for the deaf and the blind are exempt from this chapter for the
purchase of textbooks and when purchasing products through a cooperative that
is organized and operates in accordance with state law if such products are not
available on a statewide contract and are related to the operation of the
schools or are products for which special discounts are offered for educational
institutions.
Y.Z.Expenditures of
monies in the morale, welfare and recreational fund established by section 26153
are exempt from this chapter.
Z.AA.Notwithstanding
section 412534, the director of the state department of corrections may
contract with local medical providers in counties with a population of less
than four hundred thousand persons for the following purposes:
1.To acquire hospital and professional medical
services for inmates who are incarcerated in state department of corrections
facilities that are located in those counties.
2.To ensure the availability of emergency medical
services to inmates in all counties by contracting with the closest medical
facility that offers emergency treatment and stabilization.
AA.BB.The department
of environmental quality is exempt from this chapter for contracting for
procurements relating to the water quality assurance revolving fund program
established pursuant to title 49, chapter 2, article5. The department
shall engage in a source selection process that is similar to the procedures
prescribed by this chapter.The department may contract for remedial
actions with a single selection process. The exclusive remedy for disputes or
claims relating to contracting pursuant to this subsection is as prescribed by article
9 of this chapter and the rules adopted pursuant to that article. All other
procurement by the department shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
BB.CC.The motor
vehicle division of the department of transportation is exempt from this
chapter for thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter 13,
only if all of the following conditions exist:
1.The division does not pay any public monies to an
authorized third party.
2.Exclusivity is not granted to an authorized third
party.
3.The director has complied with the requirements
prescribed in title 28, chapter 13 in selecting an authorized third party.
CC.DD.This section
does not exempt thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter
13 from any other applicable law.
DD.EE.The state
forester is exempt from this chapter for purchases and contracts relating to
wildland fire suppression and prepositioning equipment resources and for
other activities related to combating wildland fires and other unplanned risk
activities, including fire, flood, earthquake, wind and hazardous material
responses. All other procurement by the state forester shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
EE.FF.The cotton
research and protection council is exempt from this chapter for procurements.
FF.GG.Expenditures of
monies in the Arizona agricultural protection fund established by section 33304
are exempt from this chapter.
GG.HH.The Arizona
commerce authority is exempt from this chapter, except article 10 for the
purpose of cooperative purchases. The authority shall adopt policies,
procedures and practices, in consultation with the department of
administration, that are similar to and based on the policies and procedures
prescribed by this chapter for the purpose of increased public confidence, fair
and equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process and fostering
broad competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the authority's
statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies, procedures and
practices available to the public. The authority may exempt specific
expenditures from the policies, procedures and practices. 
HH.II.The Arizona
exposition and state fair board is exempt from this chapter for contracts for
professional entertainment.
II.JJ.This chapter
does not apply to the purchase of water, gas or electric utilities.
JJ.KK.This chapter
does not apply to professional certifications, professional memberships and
conference registrations.
KK.LL.The
department of gaming is exempt from this chapter for problem gambling treatment
services contracts with licensed behavioral health professionals.
LL.MM.This chapter
does not apply to contracts for credit reporting services.
MM.NN.This chapter
does not apply to contracts entered into by the department of child safety: 
1.With a provider of family foster care pursuant to
section 8503.
2.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Repeal
Section 41-3803,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 83, is
repealed.
Sec.9.Section 41-3803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 167, section 1, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3803.Human rights committee on the mentally ill; training plan
A.The human rights committee on the mentally ill is
established in the department of health
services Arizona health
care cost containment system to promote the rights of persons who
receive behavioral health services pursuant to title 36, chapters 5 and 34.
B.Each region of the state covered by a regional
behavioral health authority shall have at least one human rights committee with
the authority and responsibilities as prescribed by the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration pursuant
to rules adopted by the department
administration relating
to behavioral health services. 
C.The director of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration may
establish additional committees to serve persons who receive behavioral health
services or to oversee the activities of any service provider.
D.Each committee established pursuant to this
section shall consist of at least seven and not more than fifteen members
appointed by the director of the department
of health services Arizona
health care cost containment system administration with expertise
in at least one of the following areas:
1.Psychology.
2.Law.
3.Medicine.
4.Education.
5.Special education.
6.Social work.
7.Mental health.
8.Housing for the mentally ill.
E.Each human rights committee, if appropriate,
shall include at least two parents of children who receive behavioral health
services pursuant to title 36, chapter 34.
F.Each human rights committee shall include at
least one member who is a current or former client of the behavioral health
system.
G.Current or former providers or employees of
providers that have contracted with a regional behavioral health authority may
serve on a human rights committee.
H.The department of health services shall ensure
that each regional behavioral health authority and its providers develop and
implement a human rights training plan to ensure that providers are trained
regarding clients' human rights and the duties of the human rights committees.
I.Each committee shall be organized pursuant to
this section and the requirements of section 413804. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Repeal
Section 41-3804,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 84, is
repealed.
Sec.11.Section 41-3804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 167, section 2, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3804.Human rights committees; membership; duties; client
information; immunity; violation; classification
A.Subject to the approval of the appropriate
department director, each committee established pursuant to this article shall
adopt guidelines that govern its operation, including terms of members, quorum
and attendance requirements and removal of a committee member if necessary.
Each committee shall adopt these guidelines by majority vote within the first
three months of its formation.These guidelines shall not conflict
with this article. The director of the appropriate department shall approve
the guidelines unless they are inconsistent with the department's statutes,
policies, procedures or rules, or if the guidelines do not promote participation by all interested
members of the community that the committee serves.In addition to
the procedures in the guidelines, each human rights committee must approve the
removal of any committee member on majority vote of the committee.
B.Employees of the department of economic security,
the department of child safety, the department
of health services Arizona
health care cost containment system and the Arizona health care
cost containment system administration may serve on a committee only as
nonvoting members whose presence is not counted for the purpose of determining
a quorum.
C.Advocacy groups, local advisory councils,
committee members and the director of the appropriate department may submit
names of candidates to fill committee vacancies. The appropriate director
shall appoint a person to fill a vacancy subject to the approval of the
committee.
D.Each committee shall meet at least quarterly each
calendar year.
E.Each committee shall provide independent
oversight to:
1.Ensure that the rights of clients are protected.
2.Review incidents of possible abuse, neglect or
denial of a client's rights.
3.Make recommendations to the appropriate
department director and the legislature regarding laws, rules, policies,
procedures and practices to ensure the protection of the rights of clients
receiving behavioral health and developmental disability services.
F.Each committee shall submit written objections to
specific problems or violations of client rights by department employees or
service providers to the director of the appropriate department for review.
The appropriate department director shall respond, in writing, to written
objections within twentyone days after receiving the objections.
G.Each committee shall issue an annual report of
its activities and recommendations for changes to the director of the
appropriate department, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives and the chairpersons of the senate health and human services
committee and the house of representatives health committee, or their successor
committees.
H.A committee may request from the appropriate
department the services of a consultant or department employee to advise it on
specific issues. The consultant may be a member of another human rights
committee, a department employee or a service provider. Subject to the
availability of monies, the appropriate department shall assume the cost of the
consultant. A consultant shall not participate in committee votes.
I.Subject to federal law, committee members and
consultants have access to client information and records, including quality of
care reports and, on request, case presentations, adult protective services
investigation case status and outcomes, substantiations, recommendations and
other quality of care findings from peer reviews or any successor report or
process, maintained by the appropriate department, provider or regional
behavioral health authorities to the extent necessary to conduct committee
duties. Each person who receives information or records pursuant to this
subsection shall maintain the information or records as confidential and sign
an agreement to comply with all confidentiality requirements.Any
client information or records shall be released to the committee without the
designation of personally identifiable information unless the personally
identifiable information is required for the official purposes of the
committee.A violation of
this subsection is a class 2 misdemeanor. For the purposes of
this subsection, "personally
identifiable information" includes a person's name, address, date of
birth, social security number, tribal enrollment number, telephone or fax number, email address,
social media identifier, driver
license number, places of employment,
or school identification or
military identification number or any other distinguishing characteristic that
tends to identify a particular person. A
violation of this subsection is a class 2 misdemeanor.
J.If a committee's request for information or
records from a department is denied, the committee may request in writing that
the director of the appropriate department review this decision. The agency
director or designee shall conduct the review within five business days after
receiving the request for review. The agency shall bear the costs of
conducting the review. A final agency decision made pursuant to this
subsection is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7,
article 6. The agency shall not release any information or records during the
period an appeal may be filed or is pending.
K.Confidential records and information received by
the committee or its consultant are subject to the same provisions concerning
subpoenas, discovery and use in legal actions as are the original records and
information.
L.The human rights committees may exchange
information and engage in planning and coordination activities between
committee members in the performance of committee duties pursuant to this
section.
M.The human rights committees may encourage public
awareness and involvement in their activities by supporting committee members
with affiliation agreements with postsecondary educationsponsored
internship placements pursuant to the appropriate department's approved
operating procedures.
N.The appropriate departments shall coordinate
education and training programs for committee members to facilitate their role
as human rights committee members.The appropriate departments shall
coordinate statewide meetings of committees at least every two years and
provide staff for the committees.
O.Any person who, in good faith and without malice
and in connection with duties or functions of a committee established pursuant
to this article, takes an action or makes a decision or recommendation as a
member or agent of a committee or who furnishes records, information or
assistance that is related to the duties of a committee is not subject to
liability for civil damages in consequence of that action. The court shall
determine the presence of malice by clear and convincing evidence.
P.Title 38, chapter 3, article 8, relating to
conflict of interest, applies to all committee members. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Repeal
Section 41-3955.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 85, is
repealed.
Sec.13.Section 41-3955.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 312, section 1, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3955.01.Seriously mentally ill housing trust fund; purpose; report
A.The seriously mentally ill housing trust fund is
established.The director of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration
shall administer the fund. The fund consists of monies received pursuant to
section 44313 and investment earnings.
B.On notice from the department of health services director of the Arizona health care cost containment system
administration, the state treasurer shall invest and divest
monies in the fund as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from
investment shall be credited to the fund.
C.Fund monies shall be spent on approval of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration solely for housing projects and rental assistance
for seriously mentally ill persons.
D.The director of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration
shall report annually to the legislature on the status of the seriously
mentally ill housing trust fund. The report shall include a summary of
facilities for which funding was provided during the preceding fiscal year and
shall show the cost and geographic location of each facility and the number of
individuals benefiting from the operation, construction or renovation of the
facility. The report shall be submitted to the president of the senate and the
speaker of the house of representatives no later than September 1 of each year.
E.Monies in the seriously mentally ill housing
trust fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
F.An amount not to exceed ten percent of the
seriously mentally ill housing trust fund monies may be appropriated annually
by the legislature to the department of
health services Arizona
health care cost containment system for administrative costs in
providing services relating to the seriously mentally ill housing trust fund.
G.For any construction project financed by the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration pursuant to this section, the department of health services administration shall notify a city, town,
county or tribal government that a project is planned for its jurisdiction and,
before proceeding, shall seek comment from the governing body of the city,
town, county or tribal government or an official authorized by the governing
body of the city, town, county or tribal government.The department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration shall not interfere with or attempt to override
the local jurisdiction's planning, zoning or land use regulations. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 41-3955.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 312, section 2, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3955.01.Seriously mentally ill housing trust fund; purpose; report
A.The seriously mentally ill housing trust fund is
established.The director of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration
shall administer the fund.The fund consists of monies received
pursuant to section 44313 and investment earnings.
B.On notice from the department of health services director of the Arizona health care cost containment system
administration, the state treasurer shall invest and divest
monies in the fund as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from
investment shall be credited to the fund.
C.Fund monies shall be spent on approval of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration solely for housing projects for seriously mentally
ill persons.
D.The director of the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration
shall report annually to the legislature on the status of the seriously
mentally ill housing trust fund. The report shall include a summary of
facilities for which funding was provided during the preceding fiscal year and
shall show the cost and geographic location of each facility and the number of
individuals benefiting from the operation, construction or renovation of the
facility. The report shall be submitted to the president of the senate and the
speaker of the house of representatives no later than September 1 of each year.
E.Monies in the seriously mentally ill housing
trust fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
F.An amount not to exceed ten percent of the seriously mentally
ill housing trust fund monies may be appropriated annually by the legislature
to the department of health services
Arizona health care cost containment
system for administrative costs in providing services relating to
the seriously mentally ill housing trust fund.
G.For any construction project financed by the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration pursuant to this section, the department of health services administration shall notify a city, town,
county or tribal government that a project is planned for its jurisdiction and,
before proceeding, shall seek comment from the governing body of the city,
town, county or tribal government or an official authorized by the governing
body of the city, town, county or tribal government.The department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system
administration shall not interfere with or attempt to override
the local jurisdiction's planning, zoning or land use regulations. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Repeal
Section 49-123,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 25, is
repealed.
Sec.16.Section 26343,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2013, chapter 205, section 1, and
as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, as section 49-123, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE49123.Hazardous materials emergency management program; Arizona
emergency response commission; emergency planning and community righttoknow
A.The
Arizona emergency response commission is established consisting of the director
of the division, who shall serve as chairperson, and the directors, or their
respective designees, of the department of environmental quality, the
department of health services, the department of public safety and the
department of transportation.
B.An
advisory committee to the commission is established consisting of:
1.The
state fire marshal.
2.The
chief administrative officer, or the officer's designee, of the following
agencies:
(a)Arizona
department of agriculture.
(b)Corporation
commission.
(c)Industrial
commission of Arizona.
(d)Radiation
regulatory agency.
(e)State
mine inspector.
3.Two
representatives nominated by the Arizona fire chiefs association incorporated
or its successor agency.One nominee shall represent a fire
department serving a population of two hundred fifty thousand or more
persons.One nominee shall represent a fire department or fire
district serving a population of less than two hundred fifty thousand
persons.The term of appointment is for two years.
C.The
governor shall appoint four private sector representatives to the advisory
committee to the commission after reviewing the recommendations provided by the
commission.The governor shall appoint, or reappoint, two of the
members each year from the private sector, to serve terms of two years. These
members, to the extent practicable, shall have technical expertise in the
emergency response field.
D.The
members of the commission shall serve without compensation but are eligible for
reimbursement for travel and other expenses as provided by law. The division
and the department of environmental quality shall provide such professional,
technical or administrative staff support as necessary to implement and perform
the commission duties.
E.The
commission shall meet as often as necessary and may organize itself into such
support committees as necessary to implement this article and title III in this
state.The full commission shall meet at least annually. The
commission may adopt internal operating rules.
A.The department is designated the lead agency
for developing and implementing a state hazardous materials emergency
management program.
B.The director shall appoint a coordinator to
work in consultation with the Arizona emergency response commission in the
development and implementation of the hazardous materials emergency management
program.
C.The Arizona emergency response commission is
established consisting of representatives from the following agencies and
departments:
1.The division of emergency management.
2.The department of health services.
3.The department of public safety.
4.The department of transportation.
5.The Arizona department of agriculture.
6.The corporation commission.
7.The industrial commission of Arizona.
8.The office of state fire marshal.
9.The office of state mine inspector.
10.The radiation regulatory agency.
11.Two representatives nominated by the Arizona
fire chiefs association or its successor organization, one of whom represents a
fire department or a fire district serving a population of less than two
hundred fifty thousand persons.
12.Other agencies or offices deemed necessary by
the director.
D.This article does not change or alter the
existing regulatory authority or provisions of law relating to the agencies and
departments listed in subsection C of this section.
E.The department is designated as the lead
agency for implementing title III of the superfund amendments and
reauthorization act of 1986 (P.L.99499).The director
shall administer any monies received under subsection G of this section.
F.The commission department shall administer this article and the rules
adopted under this article.The commission
department shall
administer title III in this state and may conduct whatever activities are
necessary to implement this article and title III in this state.The
commission department is granted all the authority and
responsibilities of a state emergency response commission for purposes of title
III.
G.The commission department may procure by contract the temporary or
intermittent services of experts or consultants if such services are to be
performed on a parttime or feeforservices basis and do not
involve the performance of administrative duties.The commission department may also enter into agreements with the federal
government, Indian tribes, other states and political subdivisions of this
state for the purposes of this article.The commission department may also accept on behalf of this state any
reimbursement, grant or gift that may become available for purposes of this chapter article. The commission
department shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, any such monies in
the emergency response fund.
H.The commission department shall establish a program of financial grants to
local governments funded through the division
department by
appropriations to the emergency response fund.The grants shall be
dedicated to and used for local compliance with this article.The commission department shall include procedures for applying for the
grants and qualifying criteria for awarding the grants.
I.The commission department shall adopt and may modify, suspend or repeal
rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6.The rules may not be more
stringent than title III and the federal regulations adopted under title III,
except as specifically authorized in this article.These rules shall
implement this chapter article and title III in
this state.The authority to adopt rules includes establishing:
1.Procedures for
handling public information requests.
2.Procedures and
implementing programs for chemical emergency planning and preparedness.
3.Community righttoknow
program reporting requirements.
4.Through December 31, 2018, Fees to implement the
community righttoknow program.The fees shall be
deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the emergency
response fund established by section 26352 49132.The
governor's regulatory review council must approve rules adopted pursuant to
this paragraph.
5.Release reporting
requirements.
J.Commissioners and advisory committee members The department shall ensure
that mandatory hazardous materials training programs for on-scene command
personnel that are developed, delivered or managed by their respective
agencies, departments or divisions address notification procedures,
coordination of services and comprehensive management for protection of the
public health during and after a chemical or other toxic fire
event.The training shall include notification and coordination with
the emergency response unit of the department of
environmental quality, the department of public safety, the
department of transportation, the radiation regulatory agency, the commission,
local emergency planning committees, the department of health services, the
division of emergency management, the national response center and the Arizona
poison control system.Training shall also include orientation on
the state emergency response and recovery plan concerning hazardous materials.Commissioners and advisory committee members The department shall encourage private companies that deliver
similar training in Arizona this state to include the
same curriculum in their programs. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Repeal
Section 49-127,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 26, is
repealed.
Sec.18.Section 26347,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1989, chapter 238, section 5, and
as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, as section 49-127, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE49127.Facilities subject to emergency planning; facility
emergency response plans
A.A facility is subject
to emergency planning requirements if a substance identified under section 26346 49126 is present at the facility in an amount at or in
excess of the threshold planning quantity for that substance.
B.For purposes of
emergency planning, the commission department may designate
additional facilities which that are subject to this
section.The designation shall be accomplished after providing at
least thirty days' prior public notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county where the facility is located, after allowing public comment to the commission department for thirty days and after notification to the
facility of the proposed designation.
C.The owner or operator
of a facility subject to this section shall provide to the committee department the identity of a facility representative who will
provide a facility emergency response plan and who will participate in the
emergency planning process as the facility emergency coordinator.
D.Each facility that is subject to this
section shall prepare a facility emergency response plan and submit copies of
that plan to the commission department, the local
emergency planning committee for the district in which the facility is located
and the fire department with jurisdiction over the facility.A
facility that is required to prepare a contingency plan under title 49, chapter 5, article 2 of this title or the
resource conservation and recovery act of 1976 (P.L. 94580; 90 Stat.
2795) may submit that contingency plan in lieu of the emergency response plan
required by this section if the information in paragraphs 1 through 7 of this
subsection is included in the plan.In preparing the plan required
by this section, the facility emergency coordinator shall consult with the
local emergency planning committee and other emergency and health professionals
to assure maximum coordination with those whose cooperation or services may be
required in the event of a reportable release.The facility
emergency response plan shall include specific actions to be taken in the event
of an imminent or accidental reportable release to safeguard the public health,
safety and welfare and the environment to the maximum extent practicable. The
facility emergency response plan shall include:
1.Names, addresses and
emergency telephone numbers of a facility emergency coordinator and alternate.
2.A description of
emergency warning systems and a list of emergency units, emergency personnel
and health professionals in close proximity to the facility.
3.A description of
employee emergency response training and emergency preparedness programs.
4.A description of
appropriate emergency equipment necessary to respond to a release.
5.A description of
emergency response procedures,
including notification procedures and evacuation plans in the event of a
release.
6.Identification of
transport routes and transportation methods used to transport extremely
hazardous substances to and from the facility, if known.
7.Provisions for at
least an annual review of the plan and provisions to demonstrate the capability
to execute the plan on the request of the commission department. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Repeal
Section 49-128,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 27, is
repealed.
Sec.20.Section 26348, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2011, chapter 36, section 1, and as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208,
section 12, as section 49-128, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49128.Emergency notification of reportable releases
A.If a reportable
release of an extremely hazardous substance listed under section 26346 49126 occurs from a facility at which a hazardous
chemical is produced, used or stored, the owner or operator of the facility,
except as excluded under 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 355.31 and
355.32, in addition to any other notification required by law or rule, shall
immediately orally notify the community emergency coordinator for the local
emergency planning committee for any area likely to be affected by the
reportable release, and the commission, by notifying
the emergency response unit of the department of environmental quality and appropriate emergency
responders designated by rule of the commission department, in the manner
prescribed by rule of the commission department.Unless
impracticable under the circumstances, this oral notification shall occur
immediately after the facility emergency coordinator or his the
coordinator's designee has knowledge of the reportable
release.The notice of the reportable release shall include the
following to the extent known at the time of the notice and as long as no delay
in responding to the emergency results:
1.The specific location
of the release.
2.The chemical name or
identity of substances released and a description of the container or vessel
from which the release occurred.
3.An estimate of the
quantity of substances which that were released into the
environment.
4.The time and duration
of the release.
5.The medium or media
into which the release occurred.
6.Any known or
anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated with the release and, if
within the informant's knowledge, advice regarding medical attention necessary
for exposed individuals.
7.Proper precautions to
take as a result of the release, including evacuation and other proposed
response actions.
8.The name and
telephone number of the person or persons to be contacted for further
information.
B.Within thirty days
after the reportable release, the owner or operator of a facility where a
release occurred requiring notification pursuant to this section shall submit
to the local emergency planning committee and to the commission department
a written followup emergency notice stating and updating the
information originally provided pursuant to subsection A of this section and
including the following additional information:
1.Actions taken to
respond to and contain the release.
2.Any known or
anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated with the release.
3.If appropriate,
advice regarding medical attention necessary for exposed individuals.
4.Measures which
that have been or will be taken at the facility to avoid a reoccurrence
of similar releases.
C.After additional
information becomes known, the owner or operator shall update the notice in
writing within seven calendar days. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Repeal
Section 49-129,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 28, is
repealed.
Sec.22.Section 26349,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1989, chapter 238, section 7, and
as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, as section 49-129, is amended
to read:
START_STATUTE49129.Material safety data sheets
A.A person who owns or
operates a facility which that is required to prepare
or have available a material safety data sheet for a hazardous chemical under
the occupational safety and health act of 1970 (P.L. 91593; 84 Stat.
1590), and federal regulations adopted under that act, or under title 23,
chapter 2, article 10, and rules adopted under that article, shall submit to
the local emergency planning committee for the district in which the facility
is located, the commission department, and the fire
department with jurisdiction over the facility material safety data sheets or
lists of hazardous chemicals and any extremely hazardous substances stored, handled
or processed at the facility pursuant to minimum threshold levels prescribed in
title 40 Code of Federal Regulations part
370 as well as comply with section 311 of title III and regulations adopted
under that act.
B.If a list of
hazardous chemicals or extremely hazardous substances is submitted under this
section, it shall include:
1.Information
prescribed by section 311 of title III.
2.The chemical abstract
service registry number applicable to each such chemical and substance, if
available.
3.An indication of
whether the owner elects to withhold information about the hazardous chemical
or extremely hazardous substance from disclosure as a trade secret.
C.On request of a local
emergency planning committee, the commission
department or the local
fire department with jurisdiction over the facility, an owner or operator of a
facility who has submitted a list pursuant to this section shall also submit
the material safety data sheet for any chemical on the list to the requesting
agency.On request by any person, the local emergency planning
committee may make available a material safety data sheet to the person or
transmit the request to the commission department, which shall make
the material safety data sheet available, subject to the trade secret
provisions and regulations adopted under title III.If the committee
or commission department does not have the requested
material safety data sheet, the committee or commission
department shall
request the sheet from the facility owner or operator.The facility
owner or operator shall make the sheet available within thirty days after
receiving the request to the committee or commission
department and the
committee or commission department shall make the
sheet available to the requesting person subject to the trade secret provisions
and regulations adopted under title III.
D.Within three months
after discovery by an owner or operator of a facility of significant new
information concerning an aspect of a hazardous chemical for which a list or
material safety data sheet was submitted, or within three months after a
facility obtains a new hazardous chemical subject to the reporting requirements
of this section, the owner or operator shall update and submit a revised list
or material safety data sheet to the local emergency planning committee, the commission department and the fire department with jurisdiction over the
facility. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Repeal
Section 49-130,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 29, is
repealed.
Sec.24.Section 26350,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2002, chapter 138, section 1, and
as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, as section 49-130, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE49130.Emergency and hazardous chemical inventory forms
A.A person who owns or
operates a facility which that is required to prepare
or have available a material safety data sheet for a hazardous chemical under
the occupational safety and health act of 1970 (P.L. 91593; 84 Stat.
1590) and federal regulations adopted under that act or which that
has to provide a material safety data sheet or listing under this
article shall either file electronically as prescribed by subsection D of this section or submit to
the local emergency planning committee for the district in which the facility
is located, the commission department and the fire
department with jurisdiction over the facility an emergency and hazardous
chemical inventory form pursuant to section 312 of title III as well as comply
with section 312 of title III and regulations adopted under that act, except
that the tier II emergency and hazardous chemical inventory form shall be the
required form to comply with section 312 of title III effective with inventory
forms due on or after March 1, 1991.
B.The tier II inventory
form shall contain the following information:
1.The chemical name or
the common name of the chemical as provided on the material safety data sheet
and the CAS number.
2.An estimate, in
ranges, of the maximum amount of the hazardous chemical present at the facility
at any time during the preceding year.
3.An estimate, in
ranges, of the average daily amount of the hazardous chemical present at the
facility during the preceding year.
4.A brief description
of the manner of storage of the hazardous chemical.
5.The location of the
hazardous chemical at the facility.
6.An indication of
whether the owner elects to withhold location information or other information
about a specific hazardous chemical from disclosure to the public as a trade
secret.
7.The fire department
or district with jurisdiction for the facility, including a notation of whether
the facility is located on Indian lands.
C.An owner or operator
of a facility subject to this section shall submit the information required by
this section on the inventory form provided by the commission department. The tier II
inventory form provided by the commission
department shall be
available in electronic and paper formats and shall be based on and contain at
least the information required by the federal forms as prescribed by 40 Code of
Federal Regulations section 370.41.The commission
department shall
identify on its tier II inventory form each item that is required to be
reported by 40 Code of Federal Regulations section 370.41. The commission department shall provide notice on the form that the
provision of the information items not required by 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 370.41 is optional.
D.Facilities that are
subject to reporting under this article may file reports electronically at an
internet web site website that is designated by the Arizona emergency response commission department. A facility that
files electronically pursuant to this subsection is deemed to have complied
with the reporting requirements of the commission
department and with
the requirements of title III. Local emergency planning committees, fire
departments and fire districts
also may accept electronic reporting if they have agreed to do so in a written
agreement with the commission department that provides for
the electronic filing and sharing of reports. The commission
department shall
publish on the commission's web site department's website a
listing of local emergency planning committees, fire departments and fire
districts that have agreed to accept electronic reporting to assist facilities
in determining submission requirements.
E.On certifying an
electronic submittal pursuant to subsection D of this section, the facility is deemed to
have complied with the original signature requirements of section 312 of title
III. The commission department and the facility
shall each maintain tracking information for the submittal for purposes of
confirmation.
F.Information that is
collected pursuant to this section shall be made available to the public
pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations part 370, subpart C, except for
confidential information.
G.For purposes of this
section, tier II forms are the forms established under 40 Code of Federal
Regulations part 370. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Repeal
Section 49-131,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 30, is
repealed.
Sec.26.Section 26351, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
1989, chapter 238, section 9, and as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208,
section 12, as section 49-131, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49131.Toxic chemical release forms; definitions
A.In order to implement
section 313 of title III,
the owner or operator of a facility subject to the requirements of this section
and section 313 of title III and regulations adopted under that act shall
complete a toxic chemical release form as supplied by the administrator,
pursuant to section 313(g) of title III, or as supplied by the commission department, for each toxic chemical listed in the Code of
Federal Regulations by the administrator pursuant to section 313(c) of title
III that was manufactured, processed or otherwise used in quantities exceeding
the toxic chemical threshold quantity established by subsection E of this
section during the preceding calendar year at that facility.The
form shall be submitted to the administrator and to the commission department on or before July 1 of each year and shall contain
data reflecting releases in excess of the quantity of that toxic chemical
established under subsection E of this section during the preceding calendar
year.
B.The requirements of
this section apply to owners and operators of facilities that have ten or more
fulltime employees and that are in standard industrial classification
codes 20 through 39 in effect on July 1, 1987 as prepared by the statistical
policy division of the United States office of management and budget, office of
the president and that manufactured, processed or otherwise used a toxic
chemical listed in title 40 Code of
Federal Regulations part 372 pursuant to section 313(c) and (d) of title III in
excess of the quantity of that toxic chemical established under subsection E of
this section during the calendar year for which the release form is required
under this section.
C.The director of environmental quality as the representative of
the governor pursuant to this section department may request the administrator to
apply the requirements of this section to the owners and operators of any
particular facility that manufactures, processes or otherwise uses a toxic
chemical listed pursuant to section 313(c) of title III if the administrator
determines that such action is warranted on the basis of toxicity of the toxic
chemical, the proximity to other facilities that release the toxic chemical or
to population centers, the history of releases of the chemical at the facility
or such other factors as the administrator deems appropriate.
D.The toxic chemicals
subject to the requirements of this section are those chemicals listed in title 40 Code of Federal Regulations by the
administrator pursuant to section 313(c) of title III, including any revised
version of the list as may be made pursuant to section 313(d) or (e) of
titleIII.The director of
environmental quality as the representative of the governor department, pursuant to
section 313(e)(2) of title III, may petition the administrator to add a
chemical to or delete a chemical from the list identified in this section.
E.The threshold amounts
for purposes of reporting toxic chemicals under this section are:
1.With respect to a
toxic chemical used at a facility, ten thousand pounds of the toxic chemical
for the applicable calendar year.
2.With respect to a
toxic chemical manufactured or processed at a facility:
(a)For the toxic
chemical release form required to be submitted under this section on or before
July 1, 1988, seventyfive thousand pounds of the toxic chemical per
year.
(b)For the toxic
chemical release form required to be submitted under this section on or before
July 1, 1989, fifty thousand pounds of the toxic chemical per year.
(c)For the toxic
chemical release form required to be submitted under this section on or before
July 1, 1990 and for each year thereafter, twentyfive thousand pounds of
the toxic chemical per year.
F.The threshold amounts
for purposes of reporting toxic chemicals under this section shall be adjusted
pursuant to revisions by the administrator.
G.Owners and operators
of facilities subject to the requirements of this section shall provide the
information required under this section on a uniform toxic chemical release
form published by the administrator or on a uniform toxic chemical release form
published by the director of environmental quality department.The
form shall:
1.Provide for the name
and location of and principal business activities at the facility.
2.Include an
appropriate certification, signed by a senior official with management
responsibility for the person or persons completing the form, regarding the
accuracy or completeness of the report.
3.Provide for the
following information for each listed toxic chemical known to be present at the
facility:
(a)Whether the toxic
chemical at the facility is manufactured, processed or otherwise used, and the
general category or categories of use of the chemical.
(b)An estimate of the
maximum amount in ranges of the toxic chemical present at the facility at any
time during the preceding calendar year.
(c)For each
wastestream, the waste treatment or disposal methods employed and an estimate
of the treatment efficiency typically achieved by such methods for that
wastestream.
(d)The annual quantity
of the toxic chemical entering each environmental medium.
H.The release forms
required under this section are intended to provide information to the federal,
state and local governments and to the public, including citizens of
communities surrounding facilities covered by this section.The
release form shall be available consistent with the trade secret provisions of
title III to inform persons about releases of toxic chemicals to the
environment, to assist governmental agencies, researchers and other persons in
conducting research and data gathering, to aid in developing appropriate rules
and regulations, guidelines and standards and for similar purposes.
I.For purposes of this
section:
1."Administrator"
means the administrator of the United States environmental protection agency.
2."Manufacture"
means to produce, prepare, import or compound a toxic chemical.
3."Process"
means the preparation of a toxic chemical after its manufacture for
distribution in commerce either:
(a)In the same form or
physical state as, or in a different form or physical state from, that in which
it was received by the person so preparing the chemical.
(b)As part of an
article containing the toxic chemical. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Repeal
Section 49-132,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 31, is
repealed.
Sec.28.Section 26352,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 1991, chapter 315, section 4, and
as renumbered by Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 12, as section 49-132, is
amended to read:
START_STATUTE49132.Emergency response fund
The emergency response fund is
established consisting of monies appropriated by the legislature for purposes
of section 26305.02 and this
article and federal, private and other monies available for that purpose. The chairman of the commission department shall manage the fund and
expend monies in the fund in performing the functions required or authorized by
this article.All interest earned from investing monies in the fund
shall be credited to the fund.Monies in the fund are subject to
legislative appropriation and are exempt from section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Repeal
Laws 2015, chapter 208, section 35 is repealed.
Sec.30.Transfer of monies
All unexpended and unencumbered
monies remaining in the national guard relief fund established by section
26-183, Arizona Revised Statutes, are transferred to the department of
veterans' services. Using the rules or policies for grants adopted pursuant to
section 41-608, Arizona Revised Statutes, the department of veterans' services
shall distribute the monies transferred pursuant to this section to a nonprofit
organization that provides financial assistance to Arizona national guard
members and their families.
Sec.31.Retroactive application
A.Sections 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 of this act apply
retroactively to from and after July 2, 2015.
B.Sections 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of this act apply retroactively to from and
after June 30, 2016.
Sec.32.Effective date
Section 14 of this act is effective from and after December 31,
2017.

