







REFERENCE TITLE: legislators; disclosure of interest







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1265









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

amending title
41, chapter 7, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-1108;
relating to members of the legislature.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
41, chapter 7, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 41-1108, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1108.Legislator disclosure of interest; exceptions; violation;
classification; definition
A.A legislator who casts a vote on the floor of
the house of representatives or the senate with respect to any bill, memorial
or resolution in which the legislator has a direct financial interest shall
prepare a written statement that identifies the bill, memorial or resolution,
the legislator's vote and the nature of the legislator's direct financial
interest. The legislator shall file the statement with the chief clerk of the
house of representatives or the secretary of the senate. The statement shall
be posted on the internet web page corresponding to the legislator as found on
the legislature's website. The web page for each legislator shall have an area
entitled "disclosure of direct financial interest" for each statement
to be posted.
B.A legislator shall report the direct financial
interest as soon as possible after the legislator's vote in the house of
representatives or senate.
C.This section does not apply:
1.If the direct financial interest applies to
all members of the legislature by virtue of their employment as public
officers.
2.To votes that are cast in committee of the
whole.
D.A legislator who intentionally or knowingly
fails to comply with this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
E.For the purposes of this section, "direct
financial interest" means that a legislator or a member of the
legislator's immediate family is a member of a trade, business, occupation,
profession or class of persons that will derive a direct financial benefit or
suffer detriment from the legislation or other action that is distinguishable
from the effects of the legislation or other action on the general public in
this state. END_STATUTE

