







REFERENCE TITLE: prisoners; community reentry; work
  program







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1247









Introduced by
Senator
  Smith





AN ACT
AMENDING TITLE
41, CHAPTER 11, ARTICLE 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, BY ADDING SECTION 411604.18;
RELATING TO PRISONERS.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 11, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-1604.18, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1604.18.Community reentry work program; eligibility; victim
notification; compensation; violation; classification; program termination
A.The
director may authorize an eligible inmate who is within twelve months of the
inmate's earliest release date to participate in a community reentry work
program. The director shall adopt rules to implement the community reentry work
program, including eligibility criteria for the selection of inmates. To be
eligible, at a minimum, the inmate must:
1.Not have
been convicted at any time of any of the following:
(a)A violation of title 13, chapter
13, 14 or 17.
(b)A violent crime as defined in
section 13901.03.
(c)A dangerous crime against
children as defined in section 13705.
2.Not
currently be serving a sentence for a domestic violence offense pursuant to
section 133601.
3.Be
classified by the department as a low risk to the community.
4.Not have
any felony detainers or United States immigration and customs enforcement
detainers.
5.Not be a
foreign national.
6.Not have
previously escaped or attempted to escape from a secure or nonsecure jail or
prison facility or environment.
7.Have made
satisfactory progress on the inmate's individualized corrections plan as
determined by the department.
8.have
maintained civil behavior while incarcerated as determined by the department.
9.Be
current on any restitution payments ordered by a court pursuant to section 13603.
10.Have a
need and ability to benefit from a community reentry work program as determined
by the department.
B.The
department must notify and afford an opportunity to be heard to the victim of
the offense for which the inmate is incarcerated if the victim has provided a
current address or other contact information. The notice must include the name
of the inmate, the offense for which the inmate was sentenced, the length of
the sentence and the date of admission to the custody of the department. the
notice must inform the victim of the victim's right to submit a written
statement to the director expressing the victim's opinion on the inmate's
participation in the community reentry work program within twenty days after
the department has mailed the notice to the victim.
C.An inmate
who participates in the community reentry work program must:
1.Comply
with all community reentry work program rules and any other terms and
conditions that the director requires.
2.Maintain
gainful employment.
3.Continue
to make any court ordered restitution payments.
4.Agree to
provide all compensation that the inmate receives while participating in the
program to the department for deposit in the inmate's account.
D.The
director may remove an inmate from the community reentry work program if the
director determines that the inmate has failed to comply with any program rule,
term or condition or that the best interests of the state would be served by
removing the inmate from the community reentry work program.
E.Sections
31254 and 411624.01 do not apply to the compensation that an
inmate earns while in the community reentry work program. The department is
authorized to charge and collect a percentage of the inmate's compensation, as
determined by the director, for the cost of the inmate's room and board. The
director may deduct monies from the inmate's account to pay restitution, costs
and fines that are owed by the inmate.
F.An inmate
who is absent without leave from a facility in the community reentry work
program is guilty of a class 5 felony. The sentence for a violation of this
section shall be served consecutively pursuant to section 13711,
subsection B.
G.The
program established by this section ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section
41-3102. END_STATUTE

