







REFERENCE TITLE: intergovernmental public transportation
  authority; taxation







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1250









Introduced by
Senator
  Shooter





AN ACT

Amending sections
28-9102, 28-9103, 28-9121, 28-9122 and 28-9142, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending title 28, chapter 26, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 28-9144; amending section 42-6106, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to intergovernmental public transportation authorities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-9102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9102.Formation
A.An intergovernmental public transportation
authority may be organized as provided by this section in any county with a
population of two hundred thousand persons or less. the authority may be organized and configured as follows:
1.The county
board of supervisors may organize the authority with boundaries coterminous
with the boundaries of the county.
B.2.The governing
body of one or more incorporated cities or towns may petition the county board
of supervisors to establish an
the authority consisting
of the area within the incorporated boundary of the municipality or
municipalities.
C.3.If the organizing
municipalities are not contiguous, the unincorporated areas between the
organizing municipalities must also be included in the authority with the
approval of the county board of supervisors. The board of supervisors shall
establish the boundaries of the unincorporated area to be included in the
authority.
D.4.Incorporated
cities and towns in different counties, each of which meet the population limit
prescribed by this subsection
A, may petition their
respective county boards of supervisors to establish a joint authority
consisting of the combined areas within their respective municipal boundaries
and including any intervening unincorporated areas in the counties.
E.B.The board of
supervisors shall hold at least one hearing on the petition in one of the
petitioning municipalities to determine public support for the authority and
whether establishing the authority would be in the public interest. In the
case of petitioning municipalities in different counties, the board of
supervisors of each county shall hold separate hearings and each board shall
make its determination separately.
F.C.If the board of
supervisors determines that establishing the authority would serve the public
convenience, necessity, safety or welfare, the board of supervisors shall
establish the authority by a resolution that includes a description of the
boundaries of the authority. In the case of an authority in different
counties, the county boards of supervisors shall establish the authority by an
intergovernmental agreement.
G.D.If an authority
is established under this chapter, any university that is under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents and that is located in a
municipality in the authority, any community college district that is located
in a municipality in the authority, or any Indian nation that has a boundary
within a county in which an authority is established, may become a member of the authority by
intergovernmental agreement. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
28-9103, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9103.Corporate existence; rights and immunities; official name
A.An authority is a corporate body and a political, taxlevying public improvement and taxing
subdivision of this state that may act in its official corporate name and has
all of the rights and immunities of municipal corporations that are granted by
the constitution and statutes of this state, including immunity of its property
from taxation.
B.The initial board of directors of the authority
shall adopt the official name of the authority that shall contain the words
"intergovernmental public transportation authority". END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-9121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9121.Organization; board of directors
A.The executive director of the regional council of
governments shall function as organizing director of the authority until
replaced by a permanent general manager by the initial board of directors.
B.A board of directors shall govern the authority,
and the governing bodies of the participating governmental entities shall
appoint the board of directors. The board of directors shall consist of at
least five and not more than nine members apportioned as follows:
1.The county board of supervisors shall appoint one
member if any part of the authority is located in an unincorporated area of the
county.If the authority is located in more than one county, each
county board of supervisors shall appoint one member of the board of directors.
2.If a university is a member of the authority
pursuant to section 289102, subsection G D,
the president of the university shall appoint one member of the board of
directors.
3.If a community college district is a member of
the authority pursuant to section 289102, subsection G D,
the president or chancellor of the community college district shall appoint one
member of the board of directors.
4.If an Indian nation is a member of the authority
pursuant to section 289102, subsection G D,
the highest elected official of the Indian nation shall appoint one member of
the board of directors.
5.The remaining membership shall be apportioned
among the participating municipalities according to their respective populations.
C.Members of the board serve for five year fiveyear terms ending on January 1 of
the appropriate year, except that:
1.The members of the initial board serve for terms
of two, three, four and five years, determined by lot. Succeeding members serve
full five year fiveyear terms in
staggered rotation.
2.The appointing governmental entity may remove any
of its appointive members for cause.
D.The board shall elect a chairperson and other
officers from among its members and shall prescribe by rule their functions and
terms and conditions of appointment. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 28-9122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9122.Administrative powers and duties
A.The board shall:
1.Determine its organizational and procedural
structure, adopt, amend and repeal bylaws and rules consistent with the
requirements of this chapter and prescribe a system of accounts.
2.Employ a general manager and other employees as
may be necessary and prescribe the duties, terms and conditions of employment.
The general manager serves at the pleasure of the board. All employees shall
be selected on the exclusive basis of merit according to their qualifications.
3.Manage, set policy and conduct the business and
affairs of the authority.
4.Enter into contracts, including intergovernmental
agreements.
5.Provide for payment of all debts and appropriate
claims against the authority from the appropriate funds.
6.Issue an annual report on or before December 1
containing a full account of its transactions, activities and finances for the
preceding fiscal year and other facts and recommendations. The board shall
transmit copies of the report to each member municipality, university and
county, to the secretary of state, to the
Arizona state library, archives and public records and, on
request, to any member of the public.
B.The board may:
1.Delegate any powers and duties under this section
to the general manager.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Adopt a seal for the authority to be used to
attest to documents.
4.Retain outside professional services, including
legal counsel.
5.Acquire suitable offices, furnishings and
necessary equipment, supplies and other personal property.
6.If the
authority's boundaries are coterminous with the county boundaries, approve a
request to the county board of supervisors for an election to approve the levy
of a county transportation excise tax as authorized by section 42-6106.
6.7.Perform all other
acts necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
C.The board may not exercise the power of eminent
domain.
D.Immediately
on organization, the board shall initiate proceedings to determine the
application of federal voting laws to the authority and shall take any
necessary action to comply with the applicable federal laws. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
28-9142, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9142.Public transportation authority fund
A.The authority
treasurer shall maintain a public transportation authority fund consisting of
all monies received by the authority,
including:
1.Monies appropriated or paid to the authority from
municipalities, member universities and the county.
2.Monies received by the authority from the federal
government or this state.
3.Grants, gifts and other donations from any
source.
4.Revenues collected by the authority as fares and
other proceeds from operating the public transportation system.
5.Monies received from the county transportation
excise tax as provided in section 426106.
B.Monies in the fund may be used for any lawful
purpose of the authority.
C.The authority treasurer may invest any unexpended
monies in the fund as provided in title 35, chapter 2, including in the local
government investment pool, if authorized by the state treasurer. Interest and
other income from investments shall be credited to the fund.
D.The authority treasurer shall invest the monies
to mature at the times when the fund assets will be required for the purposes
of this article. If the liquid assets in the fund become insufficient to meet
the authority's obligations, the board of directors shall:
1.Direct the authority treasurer to liquidate
sufficient securities to meet all of the current obligations.
2.Immediately notify the auditor general of the
insufficiency. The auditor general shall investigate and audit the
circumstances surrounding the depletion of the fund and report the findings to
the board.
E.if a
county transportation excise tax is approved for the authority by the qualified
electors voting at a countywide election, the department of revenue shall collect
all tax monies pursuant to section 42-6106 and deposit the monies monthly
pursuant to section 42-5014 in the public transportation authority fund. The
beneficial interest in the fund is the authority that levies the tax, and
neither this state nor the county has any beneficial interest, either legal or
equitable, in the fund except for the repayment of election expenses.
E.F.The board shall
cause an annual audit to be conducted of the fund by an independent certified
public accountant within one hundred twenty days after the end of the fiscal
year. The board shall immediately file a certified copy of the audit with the
auditor general. The auditor general may make further audits and examinations
as necessary, but if the auditor general takes no official action within thirty
days after the audit is filed, the audit is considered to be sufficient. The
board shall pay all fees and costs of the certified public accountant and
auditor general under this subsection from the fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 28, chapter 26, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 28-9144, to read:
START_STATUTE28-9144.Election on intergovernmental public transportation
authority excise tax
A.The board
of directors of an authority with boundaries coterminous with the county
boundaries, by resolution certified to the county board of supervisors, may
request that the issue of levying a county transportation excise tax pursuant
to section 42-6106 be submitted to the qualified electors at a countywide
special election or placed on the ballot at a countywide general election.
Within six months after receiving a certified copy of the resolution, the
county board of supervisors shall either call a special election or place the
issue on the ballot of a general election, subject to the requirements of this
section.
B.In
addition to any other requirements prescribed by law, the county board of
supervisors shall prepare and print a publicity pamphlet concerning the ballot
question and mail one copy of the pamphlet to each household containing a
registered voter in the county. The mailings may be made over a period of days
but shall be mailed for delivery before the earliest date registered voters may
receive early ballots for the election. The publicity pamphlet shall contain:
1.The date
of the election.
2.The
location of the individual household's polling place and the time the polls
will be open.
3.A summary
of the principal provisions of the issue presented to the voters, including the
rate of the county transportation excise tax, the number of years the tax will
be in effect and the projected annual and cumulative amount of revenues to be
raised.
4.The form
of the ballot.
5.Any
arguments for or against the ballot measure. Affirmative arguments, arranged
in the order in which the elections director received them, shall be placed
before the negative arguments, which shall also be arranged in the order in
which they were received.
C.Not later
than ninety days before the date of the election, a person may file with the
county election officer an argument that is not more than three hundred words
in length and that either advocates for or opposes the ballot measure, subject
to the following requirements:
1.The
person who files the argument shall pay to the election officer a publication
fee prescribed by the board of supervisors. Payment of the fee required by
this paragraph, or reimbursement of the payor, constitutes sponsorship of the
argument.
2.If the
argument is sponsored by one or more individuals, the argument shall be signed
by each sponsoring individual.
3.If the
argument is sponsored by one or more organizations, the argument shall be signed
by two executive officers of each organization.
4.If the
argument is sponsored by one or more political committees, the argument shall
be signed by each committee's chairperson or treasurer.
5.The names
of persons who have signed arguments and the names of sponsoring organizations
or political committees shall appear with the argument in the pamphlet. The
person or persons signing the argument shall also give their residence or post
office address and a telephone number, which shall not appear in the pamphlet.
D.In
addition to any other ballot requirements prescribed by law, the election
officer shall cause the following to be printed on the official ballot:
1.The
designation of the measure as follows: "Relating to intergovernmental
public transportation authority excise (sales) taxes".
2.Instructions
directing the voter to the full text of the official and descriptive titles
containing the summary as printed in the sample ballot and posted in the
polling place.
3.The
question submitted to the voters as follows:
Do you favor the levy
of a transaction privilege (sales) tax for public transportation purposes in
____________ county? YES __________ NO __________
(A "YES"
vote has the effect of imposing a transaction privilege (sales) tax in __________
county for ________ years to provide funding for public transportation
projects.)
(A "NO"
vote has the effect of rejecting the transaction privilege (sales) tax for
public transportation purposes in __________ county.)
E.For the
ballot question to be approved, the proposed transaction privilege tax must be
approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting on the measure.
F.Except as
otherwise provided by this section, the election under this section shall be
conducted as nearly as practicable in the manner prescribed for general
elections in title 16.
G.The
county election officer shall account for costs specifically incurred with
respect to the ballot issue under this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 42-6106, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6106.County transportation excise tax
A.If approved by the
qualified electors voting at a countywide election, the regional transportation
authority in any county, or an
intergovernmental public transportation authority with boundaries coterminous
with the county boundaries, shall levy and the department shall
collect a transportation excise tax up to the rate authorized by this section
in addition to all other taxes.
B.The tax shall be levied and collected:
1.At a rate of not more than ten per cent percent of the transaction privilege tax rate prescribed by
section 425010, subsection A in effect on January 1, 1990 to each person
engaging or continuing in the county in a business taxed under chapter 5,
article 1 of this title.
2.At a rate of not more than ten per cent percent of the rate prescribed by section 425352,
subsectionA.
3.On the use or consumption of electricity or
natural gas by retail electric or natural gas customers in the county who are
subject to use tax under section 425155, at a rate equal to the
transaction privilege tax rate under paragraph 1 of this subsection applying to persons
engaging or continuing in the county in the utilities transaction privilege tax
classification. 
C.Any subsequent reduction in the transaction
privilege tax rate prescribed by chapter 5, article 1 of this title shall not
reduce the tax that is approved and collected as prescribed in this section.
The department shall collect the tax at a variable rate if the variable rate is
specified in the ballot proposition. The department shall collect the tax at a
modified rate if approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting.
D.The net revenues collected under this section:
1.In counties with a population exceeding four
hundred thousand persons, shall be deposited in the regional transportation
fund pursuant to section 485307.
2.In counties with a population of four hundred
thousand or fewer persons, shall be deposited in the public transportation
authority fund pursuant to section 289142 or the regional transportation
fund pursuant to section 485307 or shall be allocated between both
funds.
3.in
intergovernmental public transportation authorities, shall be deposited in the
public transportation authority fund pursuant to section 289142.
E.The tax shall be levied under this section
beginning January 1 or July 1, whichever date occurs first after approval by the
voters, and may be in effect for a period of not more than twenty years. END_STATUTE

