







REFERENCE TITLE: sale and relocation; state fair







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1380









Introduced by
Senators
  Meza: Miranda





AN ACT

Amending sections
3-1001, 3-1002, 3-1003, 3-1003.01, 3-1003.02, 3-1004, 31005, 3-1006 and
3-1007, Arizona Revised Statutes; Repealing sections 31007.01, 3-1008,
3-1009, 3-1010, 3-1011 and 3-1012, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections
4-101, 4-205.03 and 5-804, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 41-2501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82;
amending section 41-2501, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015,
chapter 257, section 30; RELATING TO the state fair.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 3, chapter 8, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "ARIZONA COLISEUM AND EXPOSITION CENTER" to
"ARIZONA EXPOSITION AND STATE FAIR BOARD".
Sec.2.Section 3-1001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1001.Arizona exposition and state fair board; members;
appointment; terms; vacancy; removal; oath; meetings; report
A.There shall be an Arizona exposition and state
fair board consisting of five members appointed by the
governor.Each member shall serve for a term of five
years.No more than three of such members shall be of the same political
party.No more than two of such members shall be from any one
county.One of the members shall be knowledgeable and have not less
than five years' experience in accounting, one member shall be knowledgeable
and have not less than five years' experience in finance or business management
and another member shall be knowledgeable and have not less than five years'
experience in agriculture and another member shall be knowledgeable and have
not less than five years' experience in the field of promotions or public
relations.Appointment to fill a vacancy resulting otherwise than
from expiration of term shall be for the unexpired term.A vacancy
shall result when a member is absent from two consecutive regular meetings,
except in the event of sickness of the member.A
An Arizona exposition and state fair board member may be removed
by the governor for cause.
B.Each member of the Arizona exposition and state fair board shall
take the oath of office.
C.The Arizona
exposition and state fair board shall hold no less than four
regular meetings each year and special meetings as designated by the
chairman.In May of each year the Arizona exposition and state fair board shall
elect a chairman and vicechairman.The executive director
shall designate an employee of the Arizona
exposition and state fair board to act as its recording
secretary.
D.Within three weeks after the end of each calendar
month, the Arizona exposition and state
fair board shall prepare a report signed by the chairman, which
shall be transmitted to the governor and the joint legislative budget
committee.The report shall contain full financial data for the
preceding month, including funds
monies received and
disbursed, assets and liabilities, profit and loss, and a full and detailed
account of its the Arizona exposition and state fair board's
transactions.In addition, the report shall include a
copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
3-1002, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1002.Compensation of members; personal interest in contracts
prohibited; violation; classification
A.Board Members of the Arizona exposition and state fair board
shall not receive compensation for their services.
B.No board
A member or employee shall of the Arizona exposition and state fair board may not,
either directly or
indirectly, have any financial interest in a contract made by the Arizona exposition and state fair board.
C.A person violating
any provisions of who
violates this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 3-1003, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1003.Arizona exposition and state fair board; powers and
duties; compensation of employees
A.The Arizona exposition and state fair board
shall:
1.Have exclusive custody and direction of all state
fair and exposition center property,
construct and maintain necessary improvements in connection therewith, with that property and assist in raising funds therefor monies for that property.
2.Direct and conduct state fairs, exhibits,
contests and entertainments for the purposes of promoting and advancing the
pursuits and interests of the several counties and of the state, and of
producing sufficient revenue to defray the expenses incurred by the Arizona exposition and state fair board
in conducting such the events.
3.Charge entrance fees and gate money, and
temporarily lease stalls, stands, booths and sites for the purpose of defraying
the expenses incurred.
4.Give prizes or premiums for exhibits and contests
which that are presented or sponsored by the Arizona exposition and state fair board
in connection with the annual state fair.
5.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ
an executive director, coliseum manager
and comptroller.
6.Delegate to the executive director any of the
administrative functions, powers or duties that the Arizona exposition and state fair board
believes the executive director can competently, efficiently and properly
perform.
7.When necessary in connection with business of the
Arizona exposition and state fair board,
appoint fair or ground marshals with the authority of peace officers.
8.Have the power to promote, copromote or
lease the state fairgrounds for such
events, exhibitions, entertainments or other purposes it the
Arizona exposition and state fair board deems proper.
9.Have power to accept donations of money or other
property from any source,
and expend them in accordance with directions of the donor.Monies
received pursuant to this paragraph shall not be placed in the state general fund.
10.Adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
11.Prohibit
the issuance of a free pass, ticket or box to any person for any activity at
the Arizona coliseum and exposition center, except that this paragraph shall
not apply to the state fair and any lessees of the Arizona coliseum and
exposition center.
B.The Arizona
exposition and state fair board may exempt from subsection A,
paragraphs 2 and 3 such of this section any educational, agricultural
and mineral exhibits as that, in its the
opinion of the Arizona exposition and
state fair board, are in the best interest of the state and not
contrary to any outstanding obligations the Arizona exposition and state fair board might
have incurred.
C.Compensation of all employees shall be as
determined pursuant to section 38611. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 3-1003.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1003.01.Qualifications of executive director and comptroller
A.The executive director shall be qualified by
having at least five years' experience
in, and a working knowledge of, coliseum or similar auditorium type operational
management, including fair, agricultural and livestock exposition
experience.
B.The
coliseum manager shall be qualified by having at least four years' experience
as manager or assistant manager of a coliseum or similar auditorium type of
operation.
C.B.The comptroller
shall be qualified preferably as a certified public accountant with at least
five years' experience in general accounting, including cost accounting and budgetary
proceedings. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 3-1003.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1003.02.Duties of the executive director and comptroller
A.The executive director shall be:
1.Be the
chief executive and administrative officer of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center, including the
Arizona state fair and exposition
center.
2.Be responsible
for organizing and prescribing the duties of all positions and departmental
units in the Arizona coliseum state fair and exposition
center, including the coliseum manager
and comptroller.The executive director shall, :
(a)With the
advice and consent of the board, appoint either the coliseum manager or the
comptroller as deputy director to perform the functions, powers and duties of
the executive director if the executive director is unable to act.
(b)subject
to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 and, as applicable, article 5, appoint or
remove in the manner prescribed by law such personnel considered necessary for
the efficient work of the Arizona coliseum
state fair and exposition
center.
3.Required to
Make and submit to the Arizona
exposition and state fair board monthly reports covering all
activities of the Arizona coliseum
state fair and exposition
center.
B.The
comptroller shall serve as deputy director to perform the functions, powers and
duties of the executive director if the executive director is unable to act. In
addition to other duties assigned by the executive director, the comptroller
shall:
1.Act as the fiscal agent with complete authority
to process all cash receipts.
2.Assume responsibility for the maintenance of
satisfactory internal accounting controls which that are
required for the preservation of assets.
3.Control all books, records or other data required
for preparation of a complete financial statement of the activities of the
Arizona coliseum state fair and exposition
center.
4.Maintain cost factors and accounting records which that are sufficient in scope to clearly
reflect all profits and losses. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 3-1004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1004.Contracts with federal agencies
The Arizona exposition
and state fair board may apply to and contract with the United
States or any department or agency thereof
of the United States to
obtain funds monies appropriated by the
federal government.The contract shall not obligate the state to
advance any funds monies other than from the Arizona coliseum state fair and exposition center fund. , and funds Monies so obtained shall be expended only for
improvement of the Arizona coliseum
state fair and exposition
center and facilities. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 3-1005, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1005.State fair and exposition center fund; exposition and
state fair board permanent revolving fund
A.Monies received by the Arizona exposition and state fair board, other
than those donations referred to in section 31003,
subsection A, paragraph 9 and other than
those received by the board as ticket sales pursuant to a valid lease of the
coliseum, shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in the Arizona
state fair and exposition
and state fair center fund and are subject to
legislative appropriation.Ticket
sale monies received pursuant to a valid lease of the coliseum may be deposited
with a bank qualified to receive public deposits under title 35, chapter 2,
article 2.1, in which case the signature of the executive director or an
employee designated by the executive director and the lessee shall be required
on any instrument withdrawing such a deposit.Vouchers
for authorized expenditures shall be signed by the executive director or by an
employee who is designated by the executive director.The receipt
and expenditure of funds monies shall be as prescribed
by law and the rules of the director of the department of administration.Balances
remaining in the fund at the end of a fiscal year shall not revert to the state general fund.
B.On notice from the executive director, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the Arizona state
fair and exposition and
state fair center
fund in obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States or any of the
senior debt of its agencies, sponsored agencies, corporations, sponsored
corporations or instrumentalities, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the Arizona state fair and exposition and state fair center fund.
C.Disbursements
from an account of ticket sales received pursuant to a valid lease of the
coliseum as described in subsection A of this section shall be limited to
payments of amounts due to the lessor or lessee pursuant to the
lease.No disbursements from this account shall be made for state
wages, salaries or expenses.Upon the completion or termination of
any lease pursuant to subsection A of this section, all monies accruing to the
board shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147.
D.C.There
is established an exposition and state fair board permanent revolving fund for
use in making change at fairs and for purchases and activities requiring
immediate cash outlay for events sponsored by the Arizona exposition and state
fair board that are proper as ultimate claims for payment from the state fair and exposition and state fair center fund. The amount of the exposition and state fair board permanent
revolving fund shall not
exceed sixty thousand dollars, except for a period beginning October 1 and
ending November 30 each year when the amount of the exposition and state fair board permanent revolving fund shall not exceed
four hundred thousand dollars for use during the annual state
fair.Expenditures from this
fund and reimbursement to the exposition and state fair board permanent revolving fund
shall be as prescribed by rules of the director of the department of
administration.All monies deposited in the exposition and state fair board permanent
revolving fund are appropriated to the Arizona
exposition and state fair board for the purposes provided in this
subsection and are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating
to lapsing of appropriations.The exposition and state fair board
permanent revolving fund shall be established
maintained as a separate
account on the books of the Arizona exposition
and state fair board and a full accounting of its use shall be made to the
director of the department of administration annually or as required by the
director of the department of administration. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 3-1006, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1006.Body corporate
A.Except as
may be otherwise provided by the terms of this chapter, all of the powers and
duties of the Arizona state fair commission are vested in the Arizona
exposition and state fair board.Whenever the name "state fair
commission" or "commission", denoting the Arizona state fair
commission, is used in any statute, appropriation or budget, it shall be held
to include and mean the Arizona exposition and state fair board.The
provisions of this chapter shall not annul or modify any lawful contract
heretofore made and executed by the state fair commission, including resolution
number 102, of the state fair commission, the bonds issued thereunder, and all
of the terms and provisions of such resolution and bonds shall continue in full
force and effect and are binding upon the Arizona exposition and state fair
board.
B.The
Arizona exposition and state fair board shall constitute a body corporate with
the name of Arizona exposition and state fair board and by that name shall be
known and shall have perpetual succession. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 3-1007, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1007.Additional powers
A.In addition to the powers which that
it may now have, the Arizona exposition and state fair board shall have power may:
1.To
Acquire by purchase or gift and to
hold and dispose of personal property,
or rights or interest therein in personal property.
2.To
Construct, furnish and equip
all proper exhibition halls,
and auditoriums and coliseums, and to furnish and equip the
same.
3.To borrow
money and issue bonds payable solely from the net revenues derived from the
operation of the Arizona coliseum and exposition center and all of the
facilities thereof, after providing for all expenses of operation and
maintenance, and to provide for the rights of the holders
hereof.All such bond issues hereinafter approved by the board shall
be subject to approval by the legislature.
B.All procurement pursuant to this section shall be
made as prescribed in title 41, chapter 23 unless otherwise provided by law. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Repeal
Sections 3-1007.01,
3-1008, 3-1009, 3-1010, 3-1011 and 3-1012, Arizona Revised Statutes, are
repealed.
Sec.12.Section 4-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Act of violence" means an incident
consisting of a riot, a brawl or a disturbance, in which bodily injuries are
sustained by any person and such injuries would be obvious to a reasonable
person, or tumultuous conduct of sufficient intensity as to require the
intervention of a peace officer to restore normal order, or an incident in
which a weapon is brandished, displayed or used. Act of violence does not
include the use of nonlethal devices by a peace officer.
2."Aggrieved party" means a person who
resides at, owns or leases property within a one mile radius of a premises
proposed to be licensed and who filed a written request with the department to
speak in favor of or opposition to the issuance of the license no later than
sixty days after the filing of the application or fifteen days after action by
the local governing body, whichever is later.
3."Beer" means any beverage obtained by
the alcoholic fermentation, infusion or decoction of barley malt, hops, or
other ingredients not drinkable, or any combination of them.
4."Board" means the state liquor board.
5."Bona fide guest" means:
(a)An individual who is personally familiar to the
member, who is personally sponsored by the member and whose presence as a guest
is in response to a specific and personal invitation.
(b)In the case of a club that meets the criteria
prescribed in paragraph 7, subdivision (a) of this section, a current member of
the armed services of the United States who presents proper military
identification and any member of a recognized veterans' organization of the
United States and of any country allied with the United States during current
or past wars or through treaty arrangements.
6."Broken package" means any container of
spirituous liquor on which the United States tax seal has been broken or
removed, or from which the cap, cork or seal placed thereupon by the
manufacturer has been removed.
7."Club" includes any of the following
organizations where the sale of spirituous liquor for consumption on the
premises is made to members only:
(a)A post, chapter, camp or other local unit
composed solely of veterans and its duly recognized auxiliary that has been
chartered by the Congress of the United States for patriotic, fraternal or
benevolent purposes and that has, as the owner, lessee or occupant, operated an
establishment for that purpose in this state.
(b)A chapter, aerie, parlor, lodge or other local
unit of an American national fraternal organization that has, as the owner,
lessee or occupant, operated an establishment for fraternal purposes in this
state.An American national fraternal organization as used in this
subdivision shall actively operate in not less than thirtysix states or
have been in active continuous existence for not less than twenty years.
(c)A hall or building association of a local unit
mentioned in subdivisions (a) and (b) of this paragraph, all of the capital
stock of which is owned by the local unit or the members, and that operates the
clubroom facilities of the local unit.
(d)A golf club that has more than fifty bona fide
members and that owns, maintains or operates a bona fide golf links together
with a clubhouse.
(e)A social club with more than one hundred bona
fide members who are actual residents of the county in which it is located,
that owns, maintains or operates club quarters, that is authorized and
incorporated to operate as a nonprofit club under the laws of this state, and
that has been continuously incorporated and operating for a period of not less
than one year.The club shall have had, during this one year period,
a bona fide membership with regular meetings conducted at least once each
month, and the membership shall be and shall have been actively engaged in carrying
out the objects of the club. The club's membership shall consist of bona fide
dues paying members paying at least six dollars per year, payable monthly,
quarterly or annually, which have been recorded by the secretary of the club,
and the members at the time of application for a club license shall be in good
standing having for at least one full year paid dues.At least fiftyone
per cent percent of the members shall have signified
their intention to secure a social club license by personally signing a petition,
on a form prescribed by the board, which shall also include the correct mailing
address of each signer. The petition shall not have been signed by a member at
a date earlier than one hundred eighty days before the filing of the
application. The club shall qualify for exemption from the payment of state
income taxes under title 43.It is the intent of this subdivision
that a license shall not be granted to a club that is, or has been, primarily
formed or activated to obtain a license to sell liquor, but solely to a bona
fide club, where the sale of liquor is incidental to the main purposes of the
club.
(f)An airline club operated by or for airlines that
are certificated by the United States government and that maintain or operate
club quarters located at airports with international status.
8."Company" or "association",
when used in reference to a corporation, includes successors or assigns.
9."Control" means the power to direct or
cause the direction of the management and policies of an applicant, licensee or
controlling person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or a
partnership interest, by agreement or otherwise.Control is presumed
to exist if a person has the direct or indirect ownership of or power to vote
ten per cent percent or more of the
outstanding voting securities of the applicant, licensee or controlling person
or to control in any manner the election of one or more of the directors of the
applicant, licensee or controlling person. In the case of a partnership, control
is presumed to mean the general partner or a limited partner who holds ten per cent percent or more of the voting rights of the
partnership.For the purposes of determining the percentage of
voting securities owned, controlled or held by a person, there shall be
aggregated with the voting securities attributed to the person the voting
securities of any other person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled
by or under common control with the other person, or by an officer, partner,
employee or agent of the person or by a spouse, parent or child of the person.
Control is also presumed to exist if a creditor of the applicant, licensee or
controlling person holds a beneficial interest in ten per cent percent or more of the liabilities of the licensee or
controlling person.
10."Controlling person" means a person
directly or indirectly possessing control of an applicant or licensee.
11."Craft distiller" means a distiller in
the United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that holds
a license pursuant to section 4-205.10.
12."Department" means the department of
liquor licenses and control.
13."Director" means the director of the
department of liquor licenses and control.
14."Distilled spirits" includes alcohol,
brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin, absinthe, a compound or mixture of
any of them or of any of them with any vegetable or other substance, alcohol
bitters, bitters containing alcohol, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and
any alcoholic mixture or preparation, whether patented or otherwise, that may
in sufficient quantities produce intoxication.
15."Employee" means any person who
performs any service on licensed premises on a fulltime, parttime
or contract basis with consent of the licensee, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor or
otherwise.Employee does not include a person exclusively on the
premises for musical or vocal performances, for repair or maintenance of the
premises or for the delivery of goods to the licensee.
16."Farm winery" means a winery in the
United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that holds a
license pursuant to section 4205.04.
17."Government license" means a license
to serve and sell spirituous liquor on specified premises available only to a
state agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community
college or state university or the national guard or Arizona coliseum and exposition center on
application by the governing body of a state agency, state board, state
commission, county, city, town, community college or state university or the
national guard or Arizona exposition and
state fair board.
18."Legal drinking age" means twentyone
years of age or older.
19."License" means a license or an
interim retail permit issued pursuant to this title.
20."License fees" means fees collected
for license issuance, license application, license renewal, interim permit
issuance and license transfer between persons or locations.
21."Licensee" means a person who has been
issued a license or an interim retail permit pursuant to this title or a
special event licensee.
22."Manager" means a natural person who
meets the standards required of licensees and who has authority to organize,
direct, carry on, control or otherwise operate a licensed business on a
temporary or fulltime basis.
23."Microbrewery" means a brewery in the
United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that meets
the requirements of section 4205.08.
24."Offsale retailer" means any
person operating a bona fide regularly established retail liquor store selling
spirituous liquors, wines and beer, and any established retail store selling
commodities other than spirituous liquors and engaged in the sale of spirituous
liquors only in the original unbroken package, to be taken away from the
premises of the retailer and to be consumed off the premises.
25."Onsale retailer" means any
person operating an establishment where spirituous liquors are sold in the
original container for consumption on or off the premises or in individual
portions for consumption on the premises.
26."Person" includes a partnership,
limited liability company, association, company or corporation, as well as a
natural person.
27."Premises" or "licensed
premises" means the area from which the licensee is authorized to sell,
dispense or serve spirituous liquors under the provision of the license.
Premises or licensed premises includes a patio that is not contiguous to the
remainder of the premises or licensed premises if the patio is separated from
the remainder of the premises or licensed premises by a public or private
walkway or driveway not to exceed thirty feet, subject to rules the director
may adopt to establish criteria for noncontiguous premises.
28."Registered mail" includes certified
mail.
29."Registered retail agent" means any
person who is authorized pursuant to section 4222 to purchase spirituous
liquors for and on behalf of himself and other retail licensees.
30."Repeated acts of violence" means two
or more acts of violence occurring within seven days, three or more acts of
violence occurring within thirty days or acts of violence occurring with any
other similar frequency which the director determines to be unusual or deserving
of review.
31."Sell" includes soliciting or
receiving an order for, keeping or exposing for sale, directly or indirectly
delivering for value, peddling, keeping with intent to sell and trafficking in.
32."Spirituous liquor" includes alcohol,
brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin, wine, porter, ale, beer, any malt
liquor or malt beverage, absinthe, a compound or mixture of any of them or of
any of them with any vegetable or other substance, alcohol bitters, bitters
containing alcohol, any liquid mixture or preparation, whether patented or
otherwise, which produces intoxication, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and
beverages containing more than onehalf of one per cent percent of alcohol by volume.
33."Vehicle" means any means of
transportation by land, water or air, and includes everything made use of in
any way for such transportation.
34."Vending machine" means a machine that
dispenses merchandise through the means of coin, token, credit card or other
nonpersonal means of accepting payment for merchandise received.
35."Veteran" means a person who has
served in the United States air force, army, navy, marine corps or coast guard,
as an active nurse in the services of the American red cross, in the army and
navy nurse corps in time of war, or in any expedition of the armed forces of
the United States, and who has received a discharge other than dishonorable.
36."Voting security" means any security
presently entitling the owner or holder of the security to vote for the
election of directors of an applicant, licensee or controlling person.
37."Wine" means the product obtained by
the fermentation of grapes or other agricultural products containing natural or
added sugar or any such alcoholic beverage fortified with grape brandy and
containing not more than twentyfour per cent percent of alcohol by volume. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 4-205.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-205.03.Government license; issuance; regulatory provisions;
definitions
A.The department may issue a government license to
any state agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community
college or state university,
or the national guard or the Arizona exposition and state fair board
on application authorized by the governing body of the state agency, state
board, state commission, county, city, town, community college or state
university, or the national guard or the Arizona exposition and state fair board.
B.If the department issues the license, it shall be
issued in the name of the state agency, state board, state commission, county,
city, town, community college or state university, or
the national guard or the
Arizona coliseum and exposition center.No application
shall be filed unless authorized by the respective governing
body.The application shall designate for each location a manager or
other individual responsible for administering the license.The
state agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community
college or state university,
or the national guard or the Arizona exposition and state fair board
shall give notice to the department within ten days of any change in the
designee.The state agency, state board, state commission, county,
city, town, community college or state university, or
the national guard or the
Arizona coliseum and exposition center to which a license is
issued is subject to the fine or penalty prescribed for any violation of the statutes
relating to alcoholic beverages.
C.The holder of a government license may sell and
serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the premises for which the
license is issued.A separate license is required for each premises
on which spirituous liquors are served.A single premises licensed
under this section may consist of not more than one dock area that is
designated by a city or town and that is situated on a lake owned by the city
or town and not more than thirty boats that are operated on the
lake.A dock and boats that comprise a premises under this
subsection shall be operated in compliance with subsection G F
of this section.
D.A governing body in possession of a government
license may by appropriate legislation or rule authorize the use of the license
pursuant to a concession agreement approved by the governing body.
E.The department may adopt rules in order to
administer this section.
F.Any
agreement entered into by the Arizona exposition and state fair board allowing
an indicated concessionaire to serve alcoholic beverages pursuant to this
section shall contain a provision requiring the concessionaire to do both of
the following:
1.Fully
indemnify and hold harmless this state and any of its agencies, boards,
commissions, officers and employees against any liability for loss or damage
incurred either on or off state property and resulting from the negligent
serving of alcoholic beverages by the concessionaire or the concessionaire's
agents or employees.
2.Post a
surety bond in favor of this state in an amount determined by the Arizona
exposition and state fair board to be sufficient to indemnify this state
against the potential liability or name this state as an additional insured in
a liability policy that provides sufficient coverage to indemnify this state as
determined by the Arizona exposition and state fair board.
G.F.The
following apply to the operation of a dock and boats as a licensed premises
pursuant to subsection C of this section:
1.Liquor may be sold only for consumption on the
premises in conjunction with consumption of food.
2.Liquor shall not be served or consumed on the
dock.Liquor shall not be served on a boat earlier than fifteen
minutes before the boat is scheduled to depart from the dock and shall not be
served after a boat returns to the dock.
3.A person shall not be served more than thirtytwo
ounces of beer, one liter of wine or four ounces of distilled spirits while the
person is on a boat.
4.A person shall not bring spirituous liquor onto a
boat other than liquor purchased by the licensee or a concessionaire for resale
under the provisions of
this title.
5.The pilot of each boat, all crew members and all
persons who sell or serve spirituous liquor on each boat are deemed employees
of the licensee for purposes of this title.
6.The pilot of each boat shall either have a
current and valid coast guard operator's license or shall have successfully
completed a safety and operator training course approved by the city or town.
7.Spirituous liquor shall not be served, consumed
or possessed by a customer on the boat between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
p.m.
8.All provisions of this title and rules adopted
pursuant to this title that are not inconsistent with this section apply to
sales and consumption of spirituous liquor on the licensed premises.
H.G.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Arizona
coliseum and exposition center" includes all property under the control of
the Arizona exposition and state fair board as provided in section 31001.
2.1."Boat"
means a seaworthy vessel that is designed to carry and that is capable of
carrying not less than fifteen nor more than fortyfive passengers, that
has a displacement of not more than ten tons and that possesses a current coast
guard certificate.
3.2."Community
college" has the same meaning prescribed in section 151401.
4.3."State
university" means institutions as described in section 151601. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 5-804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-804.Administrative powers and duties
A.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, may:
1.Adopt and use a corporate seal.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Enter into contracts, including intergovernmental
agreements under title 11, chapter 7, article 3, as necessary to carry out the
purposes and requirements of this chapter.
4.Enter into
an intergovernmental agreement under title 11, chapter 7, article 3 with the
Arizona exposition and state fair board for the joint use of properties and
facilities, sharing administration, personnel and resources and other matters
that are beneficial to the purposes of the multipurpose facility and the state
fair.
5.4.Adopt
administrative rules as necessary to administer and operate the authority and
any property under its jurisdiction.
6.5.Acquire
by any lawful means and operate, maintain, encumber and dispose of real and
personal property and interests in property.
7.6.Retain
legal counsel and other consultants as necessary to carry out the purposes of
the authority.
8.7.Enter
into contracts with a professional football league for its championship game or
with a nonprofit community based organization that operates or administers an
intercollegiate national championship game that provide for the payment to the
league or organization of transaction privilege tax revenues derived pursuant
to section 425073, subsection G, paragraph 1 from sales of admissions to
these championship games if the authority has fully paid the current year's
required principal and interest payments on any outstanding authority bonds for
which these revenues were pledged pursuant to article 3 of this chapter.
9.8.Enter
into contracts with a nonprofit community based organization that sponsors an
intercollegiate national championship game that provide for the payment to the
organization of a ticket surcharge or facility user fee associated with parking
if the authority has fully paid the current year's required principal and
interest payments on any outstanding authority bonds for which these revenues
were pledged pursuant to article 3 of this chapter.
B.The board of directors shall:
1.Appoint from among its members a chairman, a
secretary and such other officers as may be necessary to conduct its business.
2.Employ an executive director and prescribe the
terms and conditions of employment.
3.Keep and maintain a complete and accurate record
of all of its proceedings. The board is a public body for purposes of title
38, chapter 3, article 3.1 and title 39, chapter 1.
4.Provide for the use, maintenance and operation of
the properties and interests owned or controlled by the authority.
5.On or before September 12, 2002, approve a site
for the construction of the multipurpose facility proposed at any time before
that date by site hosts. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Repeal
Section 41-2501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82, is
repealed.
Sec.16.Section 41-2501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2501.Applicability
A.This chapter applies only to procurements
initiated after January1, 1985 unless the parties agree to its
application to procurements initiated before that date.
B.This chapter applies to every expenditure of
public monies, including federal assistance monies except as otherwise
specified in section 412637, by this state, acting through a state
governmental unit as defined in this chapter, under any contract, except that
this chapter does not apply to either grants as defined in this chapter, or
contracts between this state and its political subdivisions or other
governments, except as provided in chapter 24 of this title and in article 10
of this chapter.This chapter also applies to the disposal of state
materials.This chapter and rules adopted under this chapter do not
prevent any state governmental unit or political subdivision from complying
with the terms of any grant, gift, bequest or cooperative agreement.
C.All political subdivisions and other local public
agencies of this state may adopt all or any part of this chapter and the rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, sections 412517
and 412546 apply to any agency as defined in section 411001,
including the office of the governor.
E.The Arizona board of regents and the legislative
and judicial branches of state government are not subject to this chapter
except as prescribed in subsection F of this section.
F.The Arizona board of regents and the judicial
branch shall adopt rules prescribing procurement policies and procedures for
themselves and institutions under their jurisdiction.The rules must
be substantially equivalent to the policies and procedures prescribed in this
chapter.
G.The Arizona state lottery commission is exempt
from this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation of the
lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets and related
materials.The executive director of the Arizona state lottery
commission shall adopt rules substantially equivalent to the policies and
procedures in this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation
of the lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets or related materials.
All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
H.The Arizona health care cost containment system
administration is exempt from this chapter for provider contracts pursuant to
section 362904, subsection A and contracts for goods and services,
including program contractor contracts pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
articles 2 and 3 and contracts with
regional behavioral health authorities pursuant to title 36, chapter 34.All
other procurement, including contracts for the statewide administrator of the
program pursuant to section 362903, subsection B, shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
I.Arizona industries for the blind is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of finished goods from members of national
industries for the blind and for purchases of raw materials for use in the
manufacture of products for sale pursuant to section 411972.All
other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
J.Arizona correctional industries is exempt from
this chapter for purchases of raw materials, components and supplies that are
used in the manufacture or production of goods or services for sale entered
into pursuant to section 411622. All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
K.The state transportation board and the director
of the department of transportation are exempt from this chapter other than
section 412586 for the procurement of construction or reconstruction,
including engineering services, of transportation facilities or highway
facilities and any other services that are directly related to land titles,
appraisals, real property acquisition, relocation, property management or
building facility design and construction for highway development and that are
required pursuant to title 28, chapter 20.
L.The Arizona highways magazine is exempt from this
chapter for contracts for the production, promotion, distribution and sale of
the magazine and related products and for contracts for sole source creative
works entered into pursuant to section 287314, subsection A, paragraph
5. All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
M.The secretary of state is exempt from this
chapter for contracts entered into pursuant to section 411012 to publish
and sell the administrative code.All other procurement shall be as
prescribed by this chapter.
N.This chapter is not applicable to contracts for
professional witnesses if the purpose of such contracts is to provide for
professional services or testimony relating to an existing or probable judicial
proceeding in which this state is or may become a party or to contract for
special investigative services for law enforcement purposes.
O.The head of any state governmental unit, in
relation to any contract exempted by this section from this chapter, has the
same authority to adopt rules, procedures or policies as is delegated to the
director pursuant to this chapter.
P.Agreements negotiated by legal counsel
representing this state in settlement of litigation or threatened litigation
are exempt from this chapter.
Q.This chapter is not applicable to contracts
entered into by the department of economic security:
1.With a provider licensed or certified by an
agency of this state to provide child day care services.
2.With area agencies on aging created pursuant to
the older Americans act of 1965 (P.L. 8973; 79 Stat. 218; 42 United
States Code sections 3001 through 3058ff).
3.For services pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
article 2.
4.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672.
R.The department
of health services Arizona
health care cost containment system may not require that persons
with whom it contracts follow this chapter for the purposes of subcontracts
entered into for the provision of the following:
1.Mental health services pursuant to section 36189,
subsection B.
2.Services for the seriously mentally ill pursuant
to title 36, chapter 5, article 10.
3.Drug and alcohol services pursuant to section 36141.
4.S.The department of health
services may not require that persons with whom it contracts follow this
chapter for the purpose of subcontracts entered into for the provision of domestic
violence services pursuant to title 36, chapter 30, article 1.
S.T.The department of
health services is exempt from this chapter for contracts for services of
physicians at the Arizona state hospital.
T.U.Contracts for
goods and services approved by the board of trustees of the public safety
personnel retirement system are exempt from this chapter.
U.V.The Arizona
department of agriculture is exempt from this chapter with respect to contracts
for private labor and equipment to effect cotton or cotton stubble plowup
pursuant to rules adopted under title 3, chapter2, article 1.
V.W.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for purchases of guest supplies and
items for resale such as food, linens, gift items, sundries, furniture, china,
glassware and utensils for the facilities located in the Tonto natural bridge
state park.
W.X.The Arizona state
parks board is exempt from this chapter for the purchase, production,
promotion, distribution and sale of publications, souvenirs and sundry items
obtained and produced for resale.
X.Y.The Arizona state
schools for the deaf and the blind are exempt from this chapter for the
purchase of textbooks and when purchasing products through a cooperative that
is organized and operates in accordance with state law if such products are not
available on a statewide contract and are related to the operation of the
schools or are products for which special discounts are offered for educational
institutions.
Y.Z.Expenditures of
monies in the morale, welfare and recreational fund established by section 26153
are exempt from this chapter.
Z.AA.Notwithstanding
section 412534, the director of the state department of corrections may
contract with local medical providers in counties with a population of less
than four hundred thousand persons for the following purposes:
1.To acquire hospital and professional medical
services for inmates who are incarcerated in state department of corrections
facilities that are located in those counties.
2.To ensure the availability of emergency medical
services to inmates in all counties by contracting with the closest medical
facility that offers emergency treatment and stabilization.
AA.BB.The department
of environmental quality is exempt from this chapter for contracting for
procurements relating to the water quality assurance revolving fund program
established pursuant to title 49, chapter 2, article5. The department
shall engage in a source selection process that is similar to the procedures
prescribed by this chapter.The department may contract for remedial
actions with a single selection process. The exclusive remedy for disputes or
claims relating to contracting pursuant to this subsection is as prescribed by
article 9 of this chapter and the rules adopted pursuant to that article. All
other procurement by the department shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
BB.CC.The motor
vehicle division of the department of transportation is exempt from this
chapter for thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter 13,
only if all of the following conditions exist:
1.The division does not pay any public monies to an
authorized third party.
2.Exclusivity is not granted to an authorized third
party.
3.The director has complied with the requirements
prescribed in title 28, chapter 13 in selecting an authorized third party.
CC.DD.This section
does not exempt thirdparty authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter
13 from any other applicable law.
DD.EE.The state
forester is exempt from this chapter for purchases and contracts relating to
wildland fire suppression and prepositioning equipment resources and for
other activities related to combating wildland fires and other unplanned risk
activities, including fire, flood, earthquake, wind and hazardous material
responses. All other procurement by the state forester shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
EE.FF.The cotton
research and protection council is exempt from this chapter for procurements.
FF.GG.Expenditures of
monies in the Arizona agricultural protection fund established by section 33304
are exempt from this chapter.
GG.HH.The Arizona
commerce authority is exempt from this chapter, except article 10 for the
purpose of cooperative purchases. The authority shall adopt policies,
procedures and practices, in consultation with the department of
administration, that are similar to and based on the policies and procedures
prescribed by this chapter for the purpose of increased public confidence, fair
and equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process and fostering
broad competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the authority's
statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies, procedures and
practices available to the public. The authority may exempt specific
expenditures from the policies, procedures and practices. 
HH.The
Arizona exposition and state fair board is exempt from this chapter for
contracts for professional entertainment.
II.This chapter does not apply to the purchase of
water, gas or electric utilities.
JJ.This chapter does not apply to professional
certifications, professional memberships and conference registrations.
KK.The
department of gaming is exempt from this chapter for problem gambling treatment
services contracts with licensed behavioral health professionals.
LL.This chapter does not apply to contracts for
credit reporting services.
MM.This chapter does not apply to contracts entered
into by the department of child safety:
1.With a provider of family foster care pursuant to
section 8503.
2.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Selecting a new state fair site; report
The Arizona exposition and state fair board shall:
1.Study the relocation of the state fair and
identify available sites for potential acquisition.In conducting
its study, the board shall consider:
(a)The potential volume of attendance at the state
fair and other events held on the premises.
(b)Requirements for and availability of onsite
and offsite parking.
(c)The types of facilities and structures necessary
and desirable to be located on the state fair premises.
(d)The impact on the surrounding property,
considering the nature and frequency of events held on the premises.
(e)Vehicular and air traffic volume and patterns
and access to arterial streets, highways and freeways.
(f)The availability of law enforcement, fire
protection and other municipal, governmental and utility services and
facilities.
(g)Alternative methods of financing, acquiring and
developing the site.
(h)The financial impacts on local governments due
to increased commerce and removal of the property from the tax base.
2.On or before September 30, 2016, report its
findings and recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate, the
speaker of the house of representatives, the chairperson of the appropriations
committee of the senate, and the chairperson of the appropriations committee of
the house of representatives and submit a copy of this report to the secretary
of state.
Sec.18.Sale and lease of state fairgrounds, veterans memorial
coliseum and exposition center
A.The Arizona exposition and state fair board shall
sell to the highest and best bidder at public auction held for that purpose all
of the rights, title and other interests of this state in the real estate,
improvements and appurtenant personal property constituting the current state
fairgrounds located on the northeast corner of McDowell Road and 19th Avenue in
Phoenix, including the Veterans Memorial Coliseum and Exposition Center, to a
buyer whose principal place of business is located in this state. The property
is subject to two current independent appraisals and an independent title
search before the property is offered for sale.
B.The contract for the sale shall provide:
1.For the lease and use of the property by the
board from the buyer for the purposes of conducting the Arizona state fair and
other events as provided under currently existing contractual obligations of
the board pending the relocation and construction of new facilities for the
state fair and exposition center pursuant to this act. The lease shall provide
that:
(a)The obligation to make payments under the lease
is a current expense of the board, payable solely from appropriated monies, and
is not a general obligation of indebtedness of this state or the board.
(b)If the legislature fails to appropriate the
monies for any term of the lease, the lease terminates at the end of the term
and this state and the board are relieved of any further obligation under the
lease.
(c)The board will use its best efforts to budget,
obtain, allocate and maintain sufficient appropriated monies to make payments
under the lease, but the lease shall acknowledge that appropriating state
monies is a legislative act and is beyond the control of the board or any other
party to the lease.
2.For the reversion and resale of the property on
any material default or other breach of contract by the buyer.
3.That the buyer coordinate with the state
preservation officer to nominate the property to the state and national
registers of historic places.
4.That the buyer and subsequent interest holders
not use the property as a factory.
5.For the sale of the property to be completed as
soon as practicable after the effective date of this act and to be completed
before July 1, 2017.
C.The sale under subsection A of this section and
lease under subsection B of this section are subject to review by the attorney
general and joint committee on capital review.
D.All proceeds of the sale shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35-145 and 35-146, Arizona Revised Statutes, in the state
general fund.

