







REFERENCE TITLE: sentencing; aggravating factor; texting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1349









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

amending section
13701, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to sentencing.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-701.Sentence of imprisonment for felony; presentence report;
aggravating and mitigating factors; consecutive terms of imprisonment;
definitions
A.A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be
a definite term of years and the person sentenced, unless otherwise provided by
law, shall be committed to the custody of the state department of corrections.
B.No prisoner may be transferred to the custody of
the state department of corrections without a certified copy of the judgment
and sentence, signed by the sentencing judge, and a copy of a recent
presentence investigation report unless the court has waived preparation of the
report.
C.The minimum or maximum term imposed pursuant to
section 13702, 13703, 13704, 13705, 13708,
13710, 131406, 133212 or 133419 may be imposed only
if one or more of the circumstances alleged to be in aggravation of the crime
are found to be true by the trier of fact beyond a reasonable doubt or are
admitted by the defendant, except that an alleged aggravating circumstance
under subsection D, paragraph 11 of this section shall be found to be true by
the court, or in mitigation of the crime are found to be true by the court, on
any evidence or information introduced or submitted to the court or the trier
of fact before sentencing or any evidence presented at trial, and factual
findings and reasons in support of such findings are set forth on the record at
the time of sentencing.
D.For the purpose of determining the sentence
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the trier of fact shall determine and
the court shall consider the following aggravating circumstances, except that
the court shall determine an aggravating circumstance under paragraph 11 of
this subsection:
1.Infliction or threatened infliction of serious physical
injury, except if this circumstance is an essential element of the offense of
conviction or has been utilized to enhance the range of punishment under
section 13704.
2.Use, threatened use or possession of a deadly
weapon or dangerous instrument during the commission of the crime, except if
this circumstance is an essential element of the offense of conviction or has
been utilized to enhance the range of punishment under section 13704.
3.If the offense involves the taking of or damage
to property, the value of the property taken or damaged.
4.Presence of an accomplice.
5.Especially heinous,
cruel or depraved manner in which the offense was committed.
6.The defendant
committed the offense as consideration for the receipt, or in the expectation
of the receipt, of anything of pecuniary value.
7.The defendant
procured the commission of the offense by payment, or promise of payment, of
anything of pecuniary value.
8.At the time of the
commission of the offense, the defendant was a public servant and the offense
involved conduct directly related to the defendant's office or employment.
9.The victim or, if the
victim has died as a result of the conduct of the defendant, the victim's
immediate family suffered physical, emotional or financial harm.
10.During the course of the commission of the
offense, the death of an unborn child at any stage of its development occurred.
11.The defendant was previously convicted of a
felony within the ten years immediately preceding the date of the offense. A
conviction outside the jurisdiction of this state for an offense that if
committed in this state would be punishable as a felony is a felony conviction
for the purposes of this paragraph.
12.The defendant was wearing body armor as defined
in section 133116.
13.The victim of the offense is at least sixtyfive
years of age or is a person with a disability as defined in section 38492,
subsectionB.
14.The defendant was appointed pursuant to title 14
as a fiduciary and the offense involved conduct directly related to the
defendant's duties to the victim as fiduciary.
15.Evidence that the defendant committed the crime
out of malice toward a victim because of the victim's identity in a group
listed in section 411750, subsection A, paragraph 3 or because of the
defendant's perception of the victim's identity in a group listed in section 411750,
subsection A, paragraph 3.
16.The defendant was convicted of a violation of
section 131102, section 131103, section 131104, subsection
A, paragraph 3 or section 131204, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 arising
from an act that was committed while driving a motor vehicle and the
defendant's alcohol concentration at the time of committing the offense was
0.15 or more. For the purposes of this paragraph, "alcohol
concentration" has the same meaning prescribed in section 28101.
17.Lying in wait for the victim or ambushing the
victim during the commission of any felony.
18.The offense was committed in the presence of a
child and any of the circumstances exists that are set forth in section 133601,
subsection A.
19.The offense was committed in retaliation for a
victim either reporting criminal activity or being involved in an organization,
other than a law enforcement agency, that is established for the purpose of
reporting or preventing criminal activity.
20.The defendant was impersonating a peace officer
as defined in section 1215.
21.The defendant was in violation of 8 United
States Code section 1323, 1324, 1325, 1326 or 1328 at the time of the commission
of the offense.
22.The defendant used a remote stun gun or an
authorized remote stun gun in the commission of the offense. For the purposes
of this paragraph:
(a)"Authorized remote stun gun" means a
remote stun gun that has all of the following:
(i)An electrical discharge that is less than one
hundred thousand volts and less than nine joules of energy per pulse.
(ii)A serial or identification number on all
projectiles that are discharged from the remote stun gun.
(iii)An identification and tracking system that, on
deployment of remote electrodes, disperses coded material that is traceable to
the purchaser through records that are kept by the manufacturer on all remote
stun guns and all individual cartridges sold.
(iv)A training program that is offered by the
manufacturer.
(b)"Remote stun gun" means an electronic
device that emits an electrical charge and that is designed and primarily
employed to incapacitate a person or animal either through contact with
electrodes on the device itself or remotely through wired probes that are
attached to the device or through a spark, plasma, ionization or other
conductive means emitting from the device.
23.During or immediately following the commission
of the offense, the defendant committed a violation of section 28661, 28662
or 28663.
24.The defendant was convicted of a violation of
section 131307 or 131308 and the defendant recruited, enticed or
obtained the victim from a shelter that is designed to serve runaway youth,
foster children, homeless persons or victims of human trafficking, domestic
violence or sexual assault.
25.During
the commission of the offense, the defendant was operating a motor vehicle
while using a wireless communication device to manually type, send, read or
enter a written or visual communication, including a text message, an instant
message, an e-mail or a communication on social media.
25.26.Any
other factor that the state alleges is relevant to the defendant's character or
background or to the nature or circumstances of the crime.
E.For the purpose of determining the sentence
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the court shall consider the
following mitigating circumstances:
1.The age of the defendant.
2.The defendant's capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness
of the defendant's conduct or to conform the defendant's conduct to the
requirements of law was significantly impaired, but not so impaired as to
constitute a defense to prosecution.
3.The defendant was under unusual or substantial
duress, although not to a degree that would constitute a defense to
prosecution.
4.The degree of the defendant's participation in
the crime was minor, although not so minor as to constitute a defense to
prosecution.
5.During or immediately following the commission of
the offense, the defendant complied with all duties imposed under sections 28661,
28662 and 28663.
6.Any other factor that is relevant to the
defendant's character or background or to the nature or circumstances of the
crime and that the court finds to be mitigating.
F.If the trier of fact finds at least one
aggravating circumstance, the trial court may find by a preponderance of the
evidence additional aggravating circumstances. In determining what sentence to
impose, the court shall take into account the amount of aggravating
circumstances and whether the amount of mitigating circumstances is
sufficiently substantial to justify the lesser term. If the trier of fact
finds aggravating circumstances and the court does not find any mitigating circumstances,
the court shall impose an aggravated sentence.
G.The court in imposing a sentence shall consider
the evidence and opinions presented by the victim or the victim's immediate
family at any aggravation or mitigation proceeding or in the presentence
report.
H.This section does not affect any provision of law
that imposes the death penalty, that expressly provides for imprisonment for
life or that authorizes or restricts the granting of probation and suspending
the execution of sentence.
I.The intentional failure by the court to impose
the mandatory sentences or probation conditions provided in this title is
malfeasance.
J.For the purposes of this section: ,
1."Trier
of fact" means a jury, unless the defendant and the state waive a jury in
which case the trier of fact means the court. 
2."Wireless communications device":
(a)Means
a wireless telephone, a text messaging device, a personal digital assistant, a
laptop or any other substantially similar communications device that is readily
removable from the vehicle and that is used to write, send or read text, data
or images through manual input. 
(b)does
not include any of the following: 
(i)Devices
that are used for global positioning or navigation services.
(ii)Systems
or devices that are physically or electronically integrated into the vehicle.
(iii)Citizens
band radios, citizens band radio hybrids and commercial two-way radio
communication devices.
(iv)Electronic
communication devices with a push-to-talk function. END_STATUTE

