







REFERENCE TITLE: agriculture omnibus







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1344









Introduced by
Senators
  Pierce, Griffin; Representatives Pratt: Campbell





AN ACT

Amending sections
31336, 31337, 32401, 32405, 32601, 32603
and 32607, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the arizona department
of agriculture.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 3-1336, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1336.Inspection of livestock to be slaughtered, sold or
transported; fee; violation; classification
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section,
livestock, other than equines and livestock inspected by movers of livestock or at feedlots or
dairies pursuant to section 31337, shall not be slaughtered, sold,
purchased, driven, transported, shipped or conveyed unless the animals have
been inspected by a livestock officer or inspector for health, brands and marks
before they are slaughtered, sold, purchased, driven, transported, shipped or
conveyed and the inspection fee has
been paid.
B.The owner or agent of the owner of the livestock
to be slaughtered, sold, driven, transported, shipped or conveyed as provided
in subsection A of this section shall notify the nearest livestock officer or
inspector of that intention.
C.Equines consigned to either licensed Arizona
livestock auctions or other special auctions approved by the department from
out of state or from Indian reservations in this state or from other state or
federal agencies without prior inspection shall be inspected on delivery at an
auction.
D.All livestock other than equines sold at auctions
shall be inspected out on an inspection certificate or auction invoice
validated by the department.
E.The owner or producer of livestock excluding
equines may slaughter or transport to another person to slaughter such that livestock without having the animal
inspected and without paying the inspection fee or service charge if the meat
of such the slaughtered livestock is solely for home
consumption by such the owner providing that such and if the owner contacts a livestock officer
or inspector within a fortyeight
hour fortyeighthour
period prior to
before the slaughter and
is able to establish proof of ownership either by a prior inspection
certificate, or by a recorded brand on the
animal or proof that the
animal was raised by said owner, and the hide is inspected as provided for in
section 32011.If proof of ownership cannot be established to
the satisfaction of the livestock officer or inspector, then
the livestock officer or inspector may require an inspection prior to before the slaughter.
F.The associate director may waive an inspection
for brands and marks before the slaughter of an animal if a federal or state
meat inspector on the premises certifies on a form provided by the department
that, as determined by an antemortem inspection, the animal is in a distressed
condition and for humane reasons should be slaughtered immediately if it is
otherwise fit for slaughter and if the hide, carcass and certification are
segregated and held pending inspection for brands and marks.The
associate director may waive inspections under this subsection only for
individual animals, and a separate certification shall be made for each animal.
G.Livestock officers or inspectors shall not
inspect livestock for health before they are slaughtered at an establishment which that is subject to federal meat inspections as
provided under chapter 13 of this title.
H.A person violating any provision of this section
is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
I.If a federal governmental entity seizes any
privately owned animals subject to brand inspection pursuant to this chapter,
the department or its authorized inspector shall not issue brand inspection
certificates or permits to remove the animals or for the transfer of ownership
of the animals by sale or otherwise unless one of the following occurs:
1.The department receives consent from the owner.
2.The owner is unknown.
3.Before the seizure, the federal governmental
entity obtains approval for the seizure from a court of competent jurisdiction
and submits a copy of the order approving the seizure to the department or its
authorized inspector.
J.This section does not apply to:
1.A feral animal.
2.Wild free-roaming horses and burros, as defined
in 16 United States Code section 1332.
3.A stray animal.
4.An animal that is seized by a governmental entity
to protect the health and safety of the public or to prevent cruelty to the
animal. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-1337, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-1337.Service charge and inspection fee; selfinspection;
civil penalties
A.Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect
from the person in charge of cattle inspected a service charge of three dollars established by the director plus an inspection
fee of twentyfive cents per head for making inspections for the transfer
of ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of cattle.It is the intent of the legislature that the
service charge not exceed twentyfive dollars.
B.Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect
from the person in charge of sheep inspected a service charge of three dollars established by the director plus an inspection
fee of five cents per head for making inspections for the transfer of
ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of sheep.It is the intent of the LEGISLATURE THAT the
service charge not exceed twentyfive dollars.
C.Livestock officers and inspectors shall collect
from the person in charge of dairy cattle inspected a service charge of three dollars established by the director plus an inspection
fee of twentyfive cents per head for making inspections for the transfer
of ownership, sale, slaughter or transportation of dairy cattle. It is the intent of the legislature that the
service charge not exceed twentyfive dollars.
D.The division may approve selfinspection by
movers of beef cattle, livestock and feedlots and
dairies pursuant to section 31203, subsection D. Movement shall be
documented on simple and concise Selfinspection
forms that are provided
by the department and that include only
the number of livestock, the livestock owner's name and address, the
transporter's name, the location of the place of shipment and destination and,
for branded animals, the animal's registered brand. Movers of beef cattle, livestock and feedlots and dairies that
utilize selfinspection shall pay
an outgoing inspection fee of twenty cents per head purchase the Selfinspection book from
the department. The director,
in consultation with the department of agriculture advisory council established
pursuant to section 3104, may establish a fee for the Selfinspection
book.
E.Service charges and inspection fees collected by
the livestock officers and inspectors and by movers of livestock and feedlots and
dairies utilizing selfinspection shall be remitted to the division. Service charges and inspection Any fees incurred by feedlots
and dairies shall be remitted to the department within ten days after the end
of the month in which the livestock were inspected. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-2401.Control of destructive animals and noxious rodents;
agreements and cooperation with federal agencies; exception
A.The director shall cooperate with the animal and
plant health inspection service of the United States department of agriculture
in the control and destruction or relocation of predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious
rodents and related animals that are injurious to livestock, poultry, game,
agriculture, other industries and the public health in accordance with
organized and systematic plans of the animal and plant health inspection
service.For such purposes, the director shall enter into written
agreements with the animal and plant health inspection service regarding the
methods and procedure to be followed, the extent of supervision to be exercised
by the state and federal agencies, respectively, and the use and expenditure of
state funds.The director, in cooperation with the animal and plant
health inspection service, may also enter into cooperative agreements with other
governmental agencies and counties of the state to promote the control and
destruction of predatory wildlife, reintroduced
predatory wildlife, noxious rodents and related animals.
B.The authority to destroy predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious
rodents and related animals does not include big game animals as defined in
section 17101, except:
1.Bear and mountain lion taken pursuant to section
17302.
2.To protect public health and safety. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 3-2405, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-2405.Powers of boards of supervisors
The boards of supervisors of the
several counties may within their respective counties:
1.Control and destroy predatory wildlife, reintroduced predatory wildlife, noxious
rodents and related animals as defined by
provided in section 32401.
2.Enter into cooperative agreements with the
department and the animal and plant health inspection service of the United
States department of agriculture.
3.Make necessary expenditures from any special,
contingent or general county fund available for the purposes specified in this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
3-2601, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-2601.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."ALIRT
agreement" means the Arizona livestock incident response team agreement
established between the department and a university under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents.
1.2."Brand"
means the term, design or trademark and other specific designation under which
an individual commercial feed is distributed in this state.
2.3."Commercial
feed" means all materials, except whole seeds unmixed or physically
altered entire unmixed seeds, that are distributed for use as feed or for
mixing in feed.Commercial feed includes raw agricultural
commodities distributed for use as feed or for mixing in feed when the
commodities are adulterated within the meaning of section 32611.
3.4."Customerformula
feed" means a mixture of commercial feed or feed materials, or both, each
batch of which is mixed according to the specific instructions of the final
purchaser.
4.5."Distribute"
means to offer for sale, sell, barter or otherwise supply commercial feeds or
customerformula feeds, except that
the term "distribute" shall but does not include or apply to any feeds
supplied for consumption on the premises of the supplier.
5.6."Division"
means the environmental services division of the Arizona department of
agriculture.
6.7."Feed
ingredient" means each of the constituent materials making up a commercial
feed.
7.8."Label"
means a display of written, printed or graphic matter upon on
or affixed to the container in which a commercial feed is
distributed, or on the invoice or delivery slip with which a commercial feed or
customerformula feed is distributed.
8.9."Official
sample" means any sample of feed taken by the director or the director's
agent and designated as official.
9.10."Per
cent" or "percentage" means percentage by weight.
10.11."Person"
includes an individual,
partnership, corporation, firm, association or agent.
11.12."Sell"
or "sale" includes exchange.
12.13."Ton"
means a net weight of two thousand pounds avoirdupois. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 3-2603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-2603.Enforcement and administrative powers
A.The associate director may refuse to license or
may cancel the license of any distributor in violation of the provisions of this article. The director
shall review the associate director's action on request of any person adversely
affected by the action.
B.The director may, after a hearing:
1.Adopt rules:
(a)Requiring the guarantee of substances and
elements when claimed present in a commercial feed, and declare the form in
which the guarantee shall appear upon
on the label.
(b)Setting forth acceptable descriptive terms by
which ingredients shall be listed on the labeling when used as ingredients of a
commercial feed or customerformula feed.
(c)Requiring a statement of warning and directions
for use of commercial feeds and customerformula feeds containing drugs
or chemicals.
(d)Establishing limits of viable weed seeds
contained in commercial feed.
(e)Both administrative and technical, which the
director deems necessary for the efficient administration of this article.
2.Cooperate with, and enter into agreements with, universities under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents, other agencies of the this
state, other states and agencies of the federal government in
order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this article, including the implementation and use of commercial feed
trust fund monies to assist the efforts of an ALIRT agreement.
3.Exempt from the definition of commercial feed or
from specific provisions of this chapter
article commodities such
as hay, straw, stover, silage, cobs, husks, hulls and individual chemical
compounds or substances when such
those commodities,
compounds or substances are not intermixed or mixed with other materials and
are not adulterated within the meaning of section 32611.
4.Define weights in the metric system. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 3-2607, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-2607.Commercial feed trust fund; exemption
A.The commercial feed trust fund is established for
the exclusive purpose of implementing, continuing and supporting the
agricultural program established by this article.All monies
collected under the provisions of
this article shall be deposited in the trust fund. 
B.The director shall administer the trust fund as trustee. Each year the director shall distribute fifty thousand
dollars from the trust fund to execute the ALIRT agreement.
C.The
state treasurer shall accept, separately account for and hold in trust any
monies deposited in the state treasury, which
that are considered to be
trust monies as defined in section 35310 and which that
shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state
treasury except for investment purposes.On notice from the
director, the state treasurer shall invest and divest any trust fund monies
deposited in the state treasury as provided by sections 35313 and 35314.03,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the trust fund.
C.D.The
beneficiary of the trust is the agriculture
agricultural program
established by this article. The trust fund shall be used solely for the
purposes of this article on the order of the director. 
D.E.The
commercial feed trust fund is exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing appropriations. Surplus monies, including any unexpended
and unencumbered balance at the end of the fiscal year, do not revert to the
state general fund. END_STATUTE

