







REFERENCE TITLE: state-owned bank task force







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1301









Introduced by
Senators
  Dalessandro, Farley; Representative Gabaldn: Senators Contreras, Meza





AN ACT

establishing a
stateowned bank task force.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Stateowned bank task force;
members; duties; delayed repeal
A.A stateowned
bank task force is established within the Arizona commerce authority,
consisting of the following members who are appointed by the chief executive
officer of the Arizona commerce authority:
1.The superintendent of
financial institutions or the superintendent's designee.
2.A representative from
the Arizona commerce authority.
3.A representative from
the department of administration.
4.A representative from
the corporation commission.
5.A representative from
the state treasurer's office.
6.A representative from
the department of revenue.
7.A representative from
the Arizona department of agriculture.
8.A representative from
a bank that has a permit that is issued pursuant to title 6, chapter 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes.
9.A representative from
a public bank advocacy organization.
10.A representative
from the economic research department of each university under the jurisdiction
of the Arizona board of regents.
B.The superintendent of
financial institutions or the superintendent's designee shall serve as the chairperson
of the task force.
C.Task force members
serve without compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses
pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
D.The task force shall
explore and evaluate the feasibility of establishing a state-owned
bank.The task force shall review and evaluate the following:
1.The bank of North
Dakota, including its enabling statutes, governing structure and programs.
2.The findings from
studies conducted by the state of Massachusetts relating to establishing a
state-owned bank, including the report of the commission to study the
feasibility of establishing a bank owned by the commonwealth.
3.Models used in other
states and by financial institutions.
4.The effectiveness and
usefulness of an existing state-owned bank, specifically the economic impact of
having a state-owned bank.
5.Any effects a
state-owned bank will have on existing banks and financial institutions in this
state.
6.The long-term broad
economic impact and long-term job creation and state revenue effects of having
a state-owned bank.
7.The capital
requirements of a state-owned bank.
8.Initial
capitalization options for a state-owned bank.
9.The cash management
and banking needs of this state.
10.An estimate of
the short-term operating costs and projected revenues of a state-owned bank.
11.The laws,
statutes and rules applicable to establishing a stateowned bank,
including the possibility of amending the Constitution of Arizona to make a
stateowned bank in this state viable.
E.The task force shall
also consider other programs or options that could serve the same purposes or
achieve the same goals as a state-owned bank, including:
1.Boston Community
Capital's SUN (Stabilizing Urban Neighborhoods) initiative or the programs of
other similar community development financial institutions if the task force
reviews Boston Community Capital as a model of a nonprofit community
development financial institution that both:
(a)Buys distressed
mortgage loans of owner-occupied residential property.
(b)Provides new
mortgages to the homeowners.
2.Loans and financial
assistance offered by the United States small business administration if the
task force considers whether any barriers or restrictions exist for small
businesses in Arizona seeking financial assistance.
3.Any agricultural loan
programs or loan guaranty programs at the federal and state levels if the task
force considers whether any barriers or restrictions exist for small businesses
in Arizona seeking loans for agricultural businesses.
4.Any investment
authority that uses existing staff from several state agencies to promote,
develop and invest in clean energy and energy efficiency projects if the task
force both:
(a)Reviews whether an
investment fund can leverage its capital to provide low-cost financing to clean
energy and energy efficiency projects in which a commercial bank would be less
likely to invest.
(b)Investigates how
such an investment authority would be funded.
F.For the purposes of
subsection E of this section, the task force may:
1.Establish
investigative subgroups.
2.Invite experts in
relevant fields, including banking, finance, economics and community
development, to provide information and assistance to the task force.
G.The task force shall
submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the governor, the
president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives on or
before December 1, 2016 and shall provide a copy of this report to the
secretary of state.
H.This section is
repealed from and after September 30, 2017.

