







REFERENCE TITLE: committee of reference; standing
  committee







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1382









Introduced by
Senator
  Burges; Representative Allen J: Senator Yee; Representatives Kern, Leach, Lovas,
  Townsend





AN ACT

amending sections
323101, 412952 and 412954, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to committees of reference.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3101.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Applicant group" means any health
professional group or organization, any individual or any other interested
party that proposes that any health professional group not presently regulated
be regulated or that proposes to increase the scope of practice of a health
profession.
2."Certification" means a voluntary
process by which a regulatory entity grants recognition to an individual who
has met certain prerequisite qualifications specified by that regulatory entity
and who may assume or use the word "certified" in a title or
designation to perform prescribed health professional tasks.
3."Grandfather clause" means a provision
applicable to practitioners actively engaged in the regulated health profession
before the effective date of a law that exempts the practitioners from meeting
the prerequisite qualifications set forth in the law to perform prescribed
occupational tasks.
4."Health professions" means professions
regulated pursuant to chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 15.1, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1,
21, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35, 39 or 41 of this title, title 36, chapter 6,
article 7 or title 36, chapter 17.
5."Increase the scope of practice" means
to engage in conduct beyond the authority granted to a health profession by
law.
6."Inspection" means the periodic
examination of practitioners by a state agency in order to ascertain whether
the practitioners' occupation is being carried out in a fashion consistent with
the public health, safety and welfare.
7."Legislative committees of reference"
means joint subcommittees composed of the
members of the appropriate standing committees of the house of
representatives and senate appointed pursuant to section 412954.
8."Licensure" or "license"
means an individual, nontransferable authorization to carry on a health
activity that would otherwise be unlawful in this state in the absence of the
permission, and that is based on qualifications that include graduation from an
accredited or approved program and acceptable performance on a qualifying
examination or a series of examinations.
9."Practitioner" means an individual who
has achieved knowledge and skill by practice and who is actively engaged in a
specified health profession.
10."Public member" means an individual
who is not and never has been a member or spouse of a member of the health
profession being regulated and who does not have and never has had a material
financial interest in either the rendering of the health professional service
being regulated or an activity directly related to the profession being
regulated.
11."Registration" means the formal
notification that, before rendering services, a practitioner shall submit to a
state agency setting forth the name and address of the practitioner, the
location, nature and operation of the health activity to be practiced and, if
required by a regulatory entity, a description of the service to be provided.
12."Regulatory entity" means any board,
commission, agency or department of this state that regulates one or more
health professions in this state.
13."State agency" means any department,
board, commission or agency of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-2952, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2952.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency" means any department, office,
agency, commission, board or other instrumentality of this state specified in
article 2 of this chapter regardless of whether monies are appropriated to such
board.
2."Committee" means the joint legislative
audit committee.
3."Committee of reference" means a joint subcommittee which is composed of the
members of the appropriate standing committees committee of the house of representatives and or senate and which that is appointed for the purpose of
evaluating agencies subject to termination pursuant to this chapter.
4."Special performance audit" means a
performance audit of limited scope.
5."Sunset review" means a systematic
evaluation by the committee of reference under the supervision of the joint
legislative audit committee, with the assistance of the appropriate agency,
joint legislative budget committee, committees of reference, auditor general
and support staff, to determine if the merits of the program justify its continuation
rather than termination, or its continuation at a level less than or greater
than the existing level.Such review shall be undertaken in the
scope and detail the committee of reference deems appropriate and shall
include, without limitation, whether there is a need for the program in state
government and, if so, an assessment of the degree to which the original
objectives of the program have been achieved expressed in terms of the
performance, impact or accomplishments of the program and of the situation it
was intended to address.Such review shall be coordinated with the
performance audit procedures of the auditor general as set forth in chapter 7,
article 10.1 of this title or of the committees of reference, whichever is
appropriate.
6."Terminate" or "termination"
means the date provided for termination of legislative authority for the
existence of a particular agency pursuant to article 2 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-2954, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2954.Committees of reference; performance review reports;
hearings; recommendations; subpoena powers
A.Each standing committee of both legislative houses
shall appoint a subcommittee of five
members.Not more than three appointees of each house shall be of
the same political party.The subcommittees shall jointly
constitute a committee of reference in their
the committee's
respective subject matter areas and the
committee's respective house.
B.After receipt of the preliminary sunset review
report, the each committee of reference shall hold at
least one public hearing to receive testimony from the public and from the
officials of the agency involved. The agency involved shall prepare a
presentation for the first public meeting that addresses the elements of the
written statement required by subsectionF of this section.
C.The
each committee of
reference shall hold public hearings for the following purposes:
1.To determine the actual need of the agency to
regulate or direct the particular activity.
2.To determine the extent to which the statutory
requirements of the agency are necessary and are being met.
3.To receive testimony from the public as to the
relationship of the agency with the public.
4.To receive testimony from the executive director
or other head of the agency as to reasons for the continuation of the agency.
D.The
each committee of
reference shall consider but not be limited to the following factors in
determining the need for continuation or termination of each agency:
1.The objective and purpose in establishing the
agency and the extent to which the objective and purpose are met by private
enterprises in other states.
2.The extent to which the agency has met its
statutory objective and purpose and the efficiency with which it has operated.
3.The extent to which the agency serves the entire
state rather than specific interests.
4.The extent to which rules adopted by the agency
are consistent with the legislative mandate.
5.The extent to which the agency has encouraged
input from the public before adopting its rules and the extent to which it has
informed the public as to its actions and their the expected
impact on the public.
6.The extent to which the agency has been able to
investigate and resolve complaints that are within its jurisdiction.
7.The extent to which the attorney general or any
other applicable agency of state government has the authority to prosecute
actions under the enabling legislation.
8.The extent to which agencies have addressed
deficiencies in their enabling statutes that prevent them from fulfilling their
statutory mandate.
9.The extent to which changes are necessary in the
laws of the agency to adequately comply with the factors listed in this
subsection.
10.The extent to which the termination of the
agency would significantly affect the public health, safety or welfare.
11.The extent to which the level of regulation
exercised by the agency compares to other states and is appropriate and whether
less or more stringent levels of regulation would be appropriate.
12.The extent to which the agency has used private
contractors in the performance of its duties as compared to other states and
how more effective use of private contractors could be accomplished.
13.The extent to which the agency potentially
creates unexpected negative consequences that might require additional review
by the committee of reference, including increasing the price of goods,
affecting the availability of services, limiting the abilities of individuals
and businesses to operate efficiently and increasing the cost of government.
E.The
Each committee of
reference shall deliver the final sunset review report of its recommendations
to the committee, the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the
governor, the auditor general and the affected agency by December
1.Such recommendations shall include one of the following:
1.That the state agency be continued.
2.That the state agency be revised or consolidated.
3.That the state agency be terminated pursuant to
this chapter.
F.The final sunset review report by the each
committee of reference shall also include a written statement
prepared by the agency involved that contains:
1.An identification of the problem or the needs
that the agency is intended to address.
2.A statement, to the extent practicable, in
quantitative and qualitative terms, of the objectives of such agency and its
anticipated accomplishments.
3.An identification of any other agencies having
similar, conflicting or duplicate objectives, and an explanation of the manner
in which the agency avoids duplication or conflict with other such agencies.
4.An assessment of the consequences of eliminating
the agency or of consolidating it with another agency.
G.The
each committee of reference shall oversee the
preparation of any proposed legislation to implement the recommendations of the committees that committee of reference and is responsible
for the introduction of such legislation.
H.If an agency is
continued, it is not necessary to reappoint any member of the governing board
or commission of the agency.Such members are eligible to complete
their original terms without reappointment or reconfirmation.
I.Each committee of reference shall have the power
of legislative subpoena pursuant to chapter 7, article 4 of this title. END_STATUTE

