







REFERENCE TITLE: cash assistance; time limit; increase







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1343









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

Amending section
46294, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 18,
section 3; relating to cash assistance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 46-294, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 18, section 3, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-294.Duration of assistance
A.A needy family is ineligible for a cash
assistance grant awarded under this article, except in case of hardship, if any
of the following applies:
1.The needy family includes a head of household or
the spouse of the head of household who has received cash assistance for
himself for a total of twelve sixty months.
2.The needy family includes a cash assistance
ineligible parent or the spouse of the ineligible parent who has received cash
assistance on behalf of an eligible dependent child for a total of twelve sixty months.
3.The needy family includes an adult nonparent
relative head of household or the spouse of the adult nonparent relative head
of household who has received cash assistance on behalf of an eligible
dependent child for a total of twelve sixty months.
B.The time limit prescribed in subsection A applies
retroactively to cash assistance received under this article or the Arizona
works program on or after October 1, 2002. The time limit applies regardless
of:
1.Whether the twelve sixty
months are consecutive. 
2.The source of funding for the program.
C.The twelve sixty month time limit
prescribed in this section does not apply to child only cases.
D.In determining the number of months that
assistance has been received, the department shall disregard any month during
which assistance is received by:
1.A foster parent, an unrelated adult or a
nonparent relative, in a child only case.
2.An assistance unit during the time in which the
assistance unit resides on an Indian reservation in which the unemployment rate
of the adults residing on the Indian reservation exceeds fifty percent.
3.An assistance unit if the cash assistance grant
is less than the full monthly amount of cash assistance for which the
assistance unit qualifies based on the date of the application.
4.An adult recipient who as a minor child was not a
head of household or married to a head of household.
E.Except in case of hardship, an assistance unit in
which any adult or minor parent of a dependent child who is a head of household
or married to a head of household has received sixty months of assistance
funded in whole or in part by the temporary assistance for needy families block
grant in this or any other state or United States territory or from a tribal
temporary assistance for needy families program shall not be eligible to
receive under any circumstances more than sixty months of such assistance.
F.Consistent
with the adopted state plan, cash assistance shall terminate on July 1, 2016
for any family, without regard to whether the family meets the financial
criteria established for a needy family, that has received twelve or more months
of cash assistance as of that date. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
Section 46-294, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 18, section 3 and this act, is effective from and after June 30,
2016.
Sec.3.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to from and after June 30, 2016.

