







REFERENCE TITLE: hospitals; dieticians; prescriptions;
  diet orders 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1327









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

amending section
321901, arizona revised statutes; Amending title 36, chapter 4, article
1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 36416; relating to
hospitals.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administer" means the direct
application of a controlled substance, prescriptiononly drug, dangerous
drug or narcotic drug, whether by injection, inhalation, ingestion or any other
means, to the body of a patient or research subject by a practitioner or by the
practitioner's authorized agent or the patient or research subject at the
direction of the practitioner.
2."Advertisement" means all
representations disseminated in any manner or by any means, other than by
labeling, for the purpose of inducing, or that are likely to induce, directly
or indirectly, the purchase of drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances.
3."Advisory letter" means a
nondisciplinary letter to notify a licensee or permittee that either:
(a)While there is insufficient evidence to support
disciplinary action, the board believes that continuation of the activities
that led to the investigation may result in further board action against the
licensee or permittee.
(b)The violation is a minor or technical violation
that is not of sufficient merit to warrant disciplinary action.
(c)While the licensee or permittee has demonstrated
substantial compliance through rehabilitation, remediation or reeducation that
has mitigated the need for disciplinary action, the board believes that
repetition of the activities that led to the investigation may result in further
board action against the licensee or permittee.
4."Antiseptic", if a drug is represented
as such on its label, means a representation that it is a germicide, except in
the case of a drug purporting to be, or represented as, an antiseptic for inhibitory
use as a wet dressing, ointment or dusting powder or other use that involves
prolonged contact with the body.
5."Authorized officers of the law" means
legally empowered peace officers, compliance officers of the state board of pharmacy and agents of the
division of narcotics enforcement and criminal intelligence of the department
of public safety.
6."Board" or "board of
pharmacy" means the Arizona state board of pharmacy.
7."Color additive" means a material that
either:
(a)Is any dye, pigment or other substance made by a
process of synthesis or similar artifice, or extracted, isolated or otherwise
derived, with or without intermediate or final change of identity, from any
vegetable, animal, mineral or other source.
(b)If added or applied to a drug, or to the human
body or any part of the human body, is capable of imparting color, except that
color additive does not include any material that has been or may be exempted
under the federal act.Color includes black, white and intermediate
grays.
8."Compounding" means the preparation,
mixing, assembling, packaging or labeling of a drug by a pharmacist or an
intern or pharmacy technician under the pharmacist's supervision, for the
purpose of dispensing to a patient based on a valid prescription order.
Compounding includes the preparation of drugs in anticipation of prescription
orders prepared on routine, regularly observed prescribing patterns and the
preparation of drugs as an incident to research, teaching or chemical analysis
or for administration by a medical practitioner to the medical practitioner's
patient and not for sale or dispensing. Compounding does not include the
preparation of commercially available products from bulk compounds or the
preparation of drugs for sale to pharmacies, practitioners or entities for the
purpose of dispensing or distribution.
9."Compressed medical gas distributor"
means a person who holds a current permit issued by the board to distribute
compressed medical gases pursuant to a compressed medical gas order to
compressed medical gas suppliers and other entities that are registered,
licensed or permitted to use, administer or distribute compressed medical
gases.
10."Compressed medical gas order" means
an order for compressed medical gases that is issued by a medical practitioner.
11."Compressed medical gas supplier"
means a person who holds a current permit issued by the board to supply
compressed medical gases pursuant to a compressed medical gas order and only to
the consumer or the patient.
12."Compressed medical gases" means gases
and liquid oxygen that a compressed medical gas distributor or manufacturer has
labeled in compliance with federal law.
13."Controlled substance" means a drug,
substance or immediate precursor that
is identified, defined or listed in title 36, chapter 27, article
2.
14."Corrosive" means any substance that
when it comes in contact with living tissue will cause destruction of tissue by
chemical action.
15."Counterfeit drug" means a drug that,
or the container or labeling of which, without authorization, bears the
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark, imprint, number or device, or
any likeness of these, of a manufacturer, distributor or dispenser other than
the person who in fact manufactured, distributed or dispensed that drug.
16."Dangerous drug" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401.
17."Decree of censure" means an official
action that is taken by the board and that may include a requirement for
restitution of fees to a patient or consumer.
18."Deliver" or "delivery"
means the actual, constructive or attempted transfer from one person to another
whether or not there is an agency relationship.
19."Deputy director" means a pharmacist
who is employed by the board and selected by the executive director to perform
duties as prescribed by the executive director.
20."Device", except as used in paragraph
15 of this section, section 321965, paragraph 4 and section 321967,
subsection A, paragraph 15 and subsection C, means instruments, apparatus and
contrivances, including their components, parts and accessories, including all
such items under the federal act, intended either:
(a)For use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other animals.
(b)To affect the structure or any function of the
human body or other animals.
21."Direct supervision of a pharmacist"
means the pharmacist is present.If relating to the sale of certain
items, direct supervision of a pharmacist means that a pharmacist determines
the legitimacy or advisability of a proposed purchase of those items.
22."Director" means the director of the
division of narcotics enforcement and criminal investigation of the department
of public safety.
23."Dispense" means to deliver to an ultimate
user or research subject by or pursuant to the lawful order of a practitioner,
including the prescribing, administering, packaging, labeling or compounding
necessary to prepare for that delivery.
24."Dispenser" means a practitioner who
dispenses.
25."Distribute" means to deliver, other
than by administering or dispensing.
26."Distributor" means a person who
distributes.
27."Drug" means:
(a)Articles recognized, or for which standards or
specifications are prescribed, in the official compendium.
(b)Articles intended for use in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other
animals.
(c)Articles other than food intended to affect the
structure or any function of the human body or other animals.
(d)Articles intended for use as a component of any
articles specified in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph but does
not include devices or their components, parts or accessories.
28."Drug enforcement administration"
means the drug enforcement administration of the United States department of
justice or its successor agency.
29."Drug or device manufacturing" means
the production, preparation, propagation or processing of a drug or device,
either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural origin
or independently by means of chemical synthesis and includes any packaging or
repackaging of substances or labeling or relabeling of its container and the
promotion and marketing of the same.Drug or device manufacturing
does not include compounding.
30."Economic poison" means any substance
that alone, in chemical combination or in formulation with one or more other
substances is a pesticide within the meaning of the laws of this state or the
federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act and that is used in the
production, storage or transportation of raw agricultural commodities.
31."Enteral
feeding" means nourishment provided by means of a tube inserted into the
stomach or intestine.
31.32."Established
name", with respect to a drug or ingredient of a drug, means any of the
following:
(a)The applicable official name.
(b)If there is no such name and the drug or
ingredient is an article recognized in an official compendium, the official
title in an official compendium.
(c)If neither subdivision (a) nor (b) of this
paragraph applies, the common or usual name of such drug.
32.33."Executive
director" means the executive director of the board of pharmacy.
33.34."Federal
act" means the federal laws and regulations that pertain to drugs,
devices, poisons and hazardous substances and that are official at the time any
drug, device, poison or hazardous substance is affected by this chapter.
34.35."Full
service wholesale permittee" means a permittee who may distribute
prescriptiononly drugs and devices, controlled substances and overthecounter
drugs and devices to pharmacies or other legal outlets from a place devoted in
whole or in part to wholesaling these items.
35.36."Graduate
intern" means a person who has graduated from a college, school or program
of pharmacy approved by the board and who meets the qualifications and
experience for a pharmacy intern as provided in section 321923.
36.37."Highly
toxic" means any substance that falls within any of the following
categories:
(a)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, at a single dose of fifty
milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, when orally administered.
(b)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, if inhaled continuously for a
period of one hour or less at an atmospheric concentration of two hundred parts
per million by volume or less of gas or vapor or two milligrams per liter by
volume or less of mist or dust, provided the concentration is likely to be
encountered by humans if the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable
manner.
(c)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more rabbits tested in a dosage of two
hundred milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, if administered by continuous
contact with the bare skin for twentyfour hours or less.
If the board finds that available data on human experience with
any substance indicate results different from those obtained on animals in the
dosages or concentrations prescribed in this paragraph, the human data shall
take precedence.
37.38."Hospital"
means any institution for the care and treatment of the sick and injured that
is approved and licensed as a hospital by the department of health services.
38.39."Intern"
means a pharmacy intern and a graduate intern.
39.40."Internship"
means the practical, experiential, handson training of a pharmacy intern
under the supervision of a preceptor.
40.41."Irritant"
means any substance, other than a corrosive, that on immediate, prolonged or
repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce a local inflammatory
reaction.
41.42."Jurisprudence
examination" means a boardapproved
boardapproved pharmacy
law examination that is written and administered in cooperation with the
national association of boards of pharmacy or another board approved boardapproved pharmacy law examination.
42.43."Label"
means a display of written, printed or graphic matter on the immediate
container of any article that, unless easily legible through the outside
wrapper or container, also appears on the outside wrapper or container of the
article's retail package.For the purposes of this paragraph, the
immediate container does not include package liners.
43.44."Labeling"
means all labels and other written, printed or graphic matter either:
(a)On any article or any of its containers or
wrappers.
(b)Accompanying that article.
44.45."Letter of
reprimand" means a disciplinary letter that is a public document issued by
the board and that informs a licensee or permittee that the licensee's or
permittee's conduct violates state or federal law and may require the board to
monitor the licensee or permittee.
45.46."Limited
service pharmacy" means a pharmacy that is approved by the board to practice
a limited segment of pharmacy as indicated by the permit issued by the board.
46.47."Manufacture"
or "manufacturer" means every person who prepares, derives, produces,
compounds, processes, packages or repackages or labels any drug in a place,
other than a pharmacy, devoted to manufacturing the drug.
47.48."Marijuana"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
48.49."Medical
practitioner" means any medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, dentist,
podiatrist, veterinarian or other person who is licensed and authorized by law to use and prescribe
drugs and devices for the treatment of sick and injured human beings or animals
or for the diagnosis or prevention of sickness in human beings or animals in
this state or any state, territory or district of the United States.
49.50."Medication
order" means a written or verbal order from a medical practitioner or that
person's authorized agent to administer a drug or device.
50.51."Narcotic
drug" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
51.52."New
drug" means either:
(a)Any drug the composition of which is such that
the drug is not generally recognized among experts qualified by scientific
training and experience to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of drugs as
safe and effective for use under the conditions prescribed, recommended or
suggested in the labeling.
(b)Any drug the composition of which is such that
the drug, as a result of investigations to determine its safety and
effectiveness for use under such conditions, has become so recognized, but that
has not, other than in the investigations, been used to a material extent or
for a material time under those conditions.
52.53."Nonprescription
drug" or "overthecounter drug" means any
nonnarcotic medicine or drug that may be sold without a prescription and is
prepackaged and labeled for use by the consumer in accordance with the
requirements of the laws of this state and federal
law.Nonprescription drug does not include:
(a)A drug that is primarily advertised and promoted
professionally to medical practitioners and pharmacists by manufacturers or
primary distributors.
(b)A controlled substance.
(c)A drug that is required to bear a label that
states "Rx only".
"
(d)A drug that
is intended for human use by hypodermic injection.
53.54."Nonprescription
drug wholesale permittee" means a permittee who may distribute only overthecounter
drugs and devices to pharmacies or other lawful outlets from a place devoted in
whole or in part to wholesaling these items.
54.55."Notice"
means personal service or the mailing of a copy of the notice by certified mail
addressed either to the person at the person's latest address of record in the
board office or to the person's attorney.
55.56."Official
compendium" means the latest revision of the United States pharmacopeia
and the national formulary or any current supplement.
56.57."Other
jurisdiction" means one of the other fortynine states, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a territory of the United
States of America.
57.58."Package"
means a receptacle defined or described in the United States pharmacopeia and
the national formulary as adopted by the board.
58.59."Packaging"
means the act or process of placing a drug item or device in a container for
the purpose or intent of dispensing or distributing the item or device to
another.
60."Parenteral
nutrition" means intravenous feeding that provides a person with all of
the fluids and essential nutrients the person needs while the person is unable
to receive fluids or feedings by mouth or by enteral feeding.
59.61."Person"
means an individual, partnership, corporation and association, and their duly
authorized agents.
60.62."Pharmaceutical
care" means the provision of drug therapy and other pharmaceutical patient
care services.
61.63."Pharmacist"
means an individual who is currently
licensed by the board to practice the profession of pharmacy in this state.
62.64."Pharmacist
in charge" means the pharmacist who is responsible to the board for a
licensed establishment's compliance with the laws and administrative rules of
this state and of the federal government pertaining to the practice of
pharmacy, the manufacturing of drugs and the distribution of drugs and devices.
63.65."Pharmacist
licensure examination" means a board
approved boardapproved
examination that is written and administered in cooperation with
the national association of boards of pharmacy or any other board approved boardapproved pharmacist licensure
examination.
64.66."Pharmacy"
means any place:
(a)Where drugs, devices, poisons or related
hazardous substances are offered for sale at retail.
(b)In which the profession of pharmacy is practiced
or where prescription orders are compounded and dispensed.
(c)That has displayed on it or in it the words
"pharmacist," "pharmaceutical chemist,"
"apothecary," "druggist," "pharmacy,"
"drugstore," "drugs" or "drug sundries" or any of
these words or combinations of these words, or words of similar import either
in English or any other language, or that is advertised by any sign containing
any of these words.
(d)Where the characteristic symbols of pharmacy or
the characteristic prescription sign "Rx" is exhibited.
(e)Or a portion of any building or structure that
is leased, used or controlled by the permittee to conduct the business
authorized by the board at the address for which the permit was issued and that
is enclosed and secured when a pharmacist is not in attendance.
65.67."Pharmacy
intern" means a person who has all of the qualifications and experience
prescribed in section 321923.
66.68."Pharmacy
technician" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
67.69."Pharmacy
technician trainee" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this
chapter.
68.70."Poison"
or "hazardous substance" includes, but is not limited to, any of the
following if intended and suitable for household use or use by children:
(a)Any substance that, according to standard works
on medicine, pharmacology, pharmacognosy or toxicology, if applied to,
introduced into or developed within the body in relatively small quantities by
its inherent action uniformly produces serious bodily injury, disease or death.
(b)A toxic substance.
(c)A highly toxic substance.
(d)A corrosive substance.
(e)An irritant.
(f)A strong sensitizer.
(g)A mixture of any of the substances described in
this paragraph, if the substance or mixture of substances may cause substantial
personal injury or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any
customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably
foreseeable ingestion by children.
(h)A substance that is designated by the board to be a poison
or hazardous substance.This subdivision does not apply to
radioactive substances, economic poisons subject to the federal insecticide,
fungicide and rodenticide act or the state pesticide act, foods, drugs and
cosmetics subject to state laws or the federal act or substances intended for use
as fuels when stored in containers and used in the heating, cooking or
refrigeration system of a house.This subdivision applies to any
substance or article that is not itself an economic poison within the meaning
of the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act or the state
pesticide act, but that is a poison or hazardous substance within the meaning
of this paragraph by reason of bearing or containing an economic poison or
hazardous substance.
69.71."Practice
of pharmacy" means furnishing the following health care services as a
medical professional:
(a)Interpreting, evaluating and dispensing
prescription orders in the patient's best interests.
(b)Compounding drugs pursuant to or in anticipation
of a prescription order.
(c)Labeling of drugs and devices in compliance with
state and federal requirements.
(d)Participating in drug selection and drug
utilization reviews, drug administration, drug or drug-related research and
drug therapy monitoring or management.
(e)Providing patient counseling necessary to
provide pharmaceutical care.
(f)Properly and safely storing drugs and devices in
anticipation of dispensing.
(g)Maintaining required records of drugs and
devices.
(h)Offering or performing of acts, services,
operations or transactions necessary in the conduct, operation, management and
control of a pharmacy.
(i)Implementing, monitoring and modifying drug
therapy pursuant to a protocolbased drug therapy agreement with a
provider as outlined in section 321970.
(j)Initiating and administering immunizations or
vaccines pursuant to section 321974.
70.72."Practitioner"
means any physician, dentist, veterinarian, scientific investigator or other
person who is licensed, registered or otherwise permitted to distribute,
dispense, conduct research with respect to or administer a controlled substance
in the course of professional practice or research in this state, or any
pharmacy, hospital or other institution that is licensed, registered or
otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to
or administer a controlled substance in the course of professional practice or
research in this state.
71.73."Preceptor"
means a pharmacist who is serving as the practical instructor of an intern and
complies with section 321923.
72.74."Precursor
chemical" means a substance that is:
(a)The principal compound that is commonly used or
that is produced primarily for use and that is an immediate chemical
intermediary used or likely to be used in the manufacture of a controlled
substance, the control of which is necessary to prevent, curtail or limit
manufacture.
(b)Listed in section 133401, paragraph 26 or
27.
73.75."Prescription"
means either a prescription order or a prescription medication.
74.76."Prescription
medication" means any drug, including label and container according to
context, that is dispensed pursuant to a prescription order.
75.77."Prescriptiononly
device" includes:
(a)Any device that is limited by the federal act to
use under the supervision of a medical practitioner.
(b)Any device required by the federal act to bear
on its label essentially the legend "Rx only".
76.78."Prescriptiononly
drug" does not include a controlled substance but does include:
(a)Any drug that because of its toxicity or other
potentiality for harmful effect, the method of its use, or the collateral
measures necessary to its use is not generally recognized among experts,
qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate its safety and efficacy,
as safe for use except by or under the supervision of a medical practitioner.
(b)Any drug that is limited by an approved new drug
application under the federal act or section 321962 to use under the
supervision of a medical practitioner.
(c)Every potentially harmful drug, the labeling of
which does not bear or contain full and adequate directions for use by the
consumer.
(d)Any drug, other than a controlled substance,
required by the federal act to bear on its label the legend "Rx
only".
77.79."Prescription
order" means any of the following:
(a)An order to a pharmacist for drugs or devices
issued and signed by a duly licensed medical practitioner in the authorized
course of the practitioner's professional practice.
(b)An order transmitted to a pharmacist through
word of mouth, telephone or other means of communication directed by that
medical practitioner.Prescription orders received by word of mouth,
telephone or other means of communication shall be maintained by the pharmacist
pursuant to section 321964, and the record so made by the pharmacist
constitutes the original prescription order to be dispensed by the
pharmacist.This paragraph does not alter or affect laws of this
state or any federal act requiring a written prescription order.
(c)An order initiated by a pharmacist pursuant to a
protocol-based drug therapy agreement with a provider as outlined in section
32-1970, or immunizations or vaccines administered by a pharmacist pursuant to
section 321974.
(d)An order for enteral feeding or
parenteral nutrition that is initiated by a registered dietitian in a hospital
pursuant to section 36416.
78.80."Professionally
incompetent" means:
(a)Incompetence based on a variety of factors, including a lack of
sufficient pharmaceutical knowledge or skills or experience to a degree likely
to endanger the health of patients.
(b)When considered with other indications of
professional incompetence, a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern who
fails to obtain a passing score on a board
approved boardapproved
pharmacist licensure examination or a pharmacy technician or
pharmacy technician trainee who fails to obtain a passing score on a board approved boardapproved pharmacy technician
licensure examination.
79.81."Radioactive
substance" means a substance that emits ionizing radiation.
80.82."Safely
engage in employment duties" means that a permittee or the permittee's
employee is able to safely engage in employment duties related to the
manufacture, sale, distribution or dispensing of drugs, devices, poisons,
hazardous substances, controlled substances or precursor chemicals.
81.83."Symbol"
means the characteristic symbols that have historically identified pharmacy,
including "show
globes", and "mortar and pestle, "
and the sign "Rx".
82.84."Toxic
substance" means a substance, other than a radioactive substance, that has
the capacity to produce injury or illness in humans through ingestion,
inhalation or absorption through any body surface.
83.85."Ultimate user"
means a person who lawfully possesses a drug or controlled substance for that
person's own use, for the use of a member of that person's household or for
administering to an animal owned by that person or by a member of that person's
household. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 36, chapter 4, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-416, to read:
START_STATUTE36-416.Registered dietitians; hospital prescribing; definition
A.A hospital that is licensed
pursuant to section 36-422 may allow a registered dietitian to issue diet
orders or prescription orders pursuant to 42 Code of Federal Regulations
section 482.28(b) if
both:
1.the
hospital's written policies and procedures allow registered dietitians to issue
such orders.
2.the
hospital has written policies and procedures that address the hospital's
response to adverse events, if any, that arise as a result of diet orders or
prescription orders issued by a registered dietitian.
b.For
the purposes of this section, "registered dietitian" means a person
who meets the qualifications of the credentialing agency for the American
academy of nutrition and dietetics. END_STATUTE

