







REFERENCE TITLE: foster parents; immunizations; licensure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1303









Introduced by
Senators
  Dalessandro, Pancrazi; Representative Gabaldn: Senators Contreras, Farley, Meza





AN ACT

Amending section
8-509, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to child welfare and placement.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
8-509, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-509.Licensing of foster homes; renewal of license; provisional
license; exemption from licensure
A.The division shall
license and certify foster homes. Licenses are valid for a period of two
years.
B.The division shall
not issue a license without satisfactory proof that the foster parent or
parents have completed six actual hours of approved initial foster parent
training as set forth in section 8503 and that each foster parent and
each other adult member of the household has a valid fingerprint clearance card
issued pursuant to section 411758.07. The foster parent and each other
adult member of the household must certify on forms that are provided by the
division and that are notarized whether the foster parent or other adult member
of the household is awaiting trial on or has ever been convicted of any of the
criminal offenses listed in section 411758.07, subsections B and C in
this state or similar offenses in another state or jurisdiction.
C.The division shall
not renew a license without satisfactory proof that the foster parent or
parents have completed six actual hours of approved ongoing foster parent
training per year as set forth in section 8503.
D.Notwithstanding the
requirements of subsections B and C of this section, if the division determines
a condition of hardship to the foster parent or parents, the division may issue
a provisional license for a period not to exceed six months.A provisional
license may not be renewed.
E.Child welfare
agencies that submit foster homes for licensing shall conduct an investigation
of the foster home pursuant to licensing rules of the division. The division
shall conduct investigations of all other foster homes. If the foster home
meets all requirements set by the division, the agency shall submit an
application stating the foster home's qualifications to the
division.The agency may also recommend the types of licensing and
certification to be granted to the foster home.
F.The division shall
accept an adoptive home certification study as a licensing home study if the
study has been updated within the past three months to include the information
necessary to determine whether the home meets foster care licensing standards.
G.This section does not
apply if the child is placed in a home by a means other than by court order and
if the home does not receive compensation from this state or any political
subdivision of this state.
H.The division does may
not prohibit a person operating a licensed foster home from applying for
or receiving compensation as a foster home parent due to employment with this
state.
I.The
division shall not require a foster parent to immunize the foster parent's
natural or adoptive children as a condition of foster home licensure.
J.I.A
licensee may modify the renewal date of a license issued pursuant to this
section by submitting an application for modification of renewal date with the
division on a form prescribed by the division. The licensee must specify the
new month of renewal on the application. The modified renewal date must be prior to before, but not more than six months earlier than, the
existing renewal date. END_STATUTE

