







REFERENCE TITLE: manufacturers; nondefective firearms;
  civil liability







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1354









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





AN ACT

amending section
12714, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to actions against firearm
manufacturers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 12-714, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-714.Actions against firearm manufacturers; prohibition;
findings; definitions
A.A person
or a political subdivision of this state shall not commence a
qualified civil liability action in any Arizona court.
B.The legislature finds that:
1.The citizens of this state have the right, under
the second amendment to the United States Constitution and article 2 II, section 26 of the Arizona Constitution,
to keep and bear arms.
2.Lawsuits have been commenced against the
manufacturers, distributors, dealers and importers of nondefective firearms for
the harm caused by the misuse of firearms by third parties, including
criminals.
3.Businesses in the United States that are engaged
in the lawful sale to the public of firearms or ammunition are not, and should
not be liable for the harm caused by those who unlawfully misuse firearms or
ammunition.
4.The possibility of imposing liability on an
entire industry for harm that is the sole responsibility of others is an abuse
of the legal system, threatens the diminution of a basic constitutional right
and constitutes an unreasonable burden on the free enterprise system.
5.The liability actions commenced by persons or political
subdivisions are based on
theories without foundation in the common law and American jurisprudence. Such
an expansion of liability would constitute a deprivation of the rights,
privileges and immunities guaranteed to citizens of this state under both the
Constitution of Arizona and the United States Constitution.
C.As used in For the purposes of this
section:
1."Manufacturer" means, with respect to a
qualified product:
(a)A person who is engaged in a business to import,
make, produce, create or assemble a qualified product and who designs or
formulates, or has engaged another person to design or formulate, a qualified
product.
(b)A seller of a qualified product, but only with
respect to an aspect of the product that is made or affected when the seller
makes, produces, creates or assembles and designs or formulates an aspect of
the product made by another person.
(c)Any seller of a qualified product who represents
to a user of a qualified product that the seller is a manufacturer of the
qualified product.
2."Qualified civil liability action" means
a civil action brought by a person or a
political subdivision against a manufacturer or seller of a
qualified product or a trade association, for damages resulting from the
criminal or unlawful misuse of a qualified product by a third
party.Qualified civil liability action does not include an action
brought against a transferor convicted under 18 United States Code section
924(h) or section 133102, subsection A, paragraph 14, by a party directly harmed by the
conduct of which the transferee is convicted.
3."Qualified product" means a
nondefective firearm as defined in 18 United States Code section 921(a)(3) or
nondefective ammunition as defined in 18 United States Code section 921(a)(17),
or a component part of a firearm or ammunition, that has been shipped or
transported in interstate or foreign commerce.
4."Seller" means, with respect to a
qualified product, a person who either:
(a)In the course of a business conducted for that
purpose sells, distributes, rents, leases, prepares, blends, packages, labels
or otherwise is involved in placing a qualified product in the stream of
commerce.
(b)Installs, repairs, refurbishes, reconditions or
maintains an aspect of a qualified product that is alleged to have resulted in
damages.
5."Trade association" means any
association or business organization, whether or not incorporated under federal
or state law, two or more members of which are manufacturers or sellers of a
qualified product. END_STATUTE

