







REFERENCE TITLE: abortion clinics; medication abortions







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1324









Introduced by
Senators
  Yee, Barto, Kavanagh, Lesko, Miranda, Smith, Yarbrough; Representatives
  Borrelli, Leach, Mitchell, Montenegro: Senators Allen S, Begay, Biggs,
  Donahue, Farnsworth D, Griffin, Shooter, Worsley; Representatives Livingston,
  Lovas, Mesnard, Weninger





AN ACT

Amending section
36449.03, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to abortion clinics.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-449.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-449.03.Abortion clinics; rules; civil penalties
A.The director shall adopt rules for an abortion
clinic's physical facilities.At a minimum these rules shall
prescribe standards for:
1.Adequate private space that is specifically
designated for interviewing, counseling and medical evaluations.
2.Dressing rooms for staff and patients.
3.Appropriate lavatory areas.
4.Areas for preprocedure hand washing.
5.Private procedure rooms.
6.Adequate lighting and ventilation for abortion
procedures.
7.Surgical or gynecologic examination tables and
other fixed equipment.
8.Postprocedure recovery rooms that are supervised,
staffed and equipped to meet the patients' needs.
9.Emergency exits to accommodate a stretcher or
gurney.
10.Areas for cleaning and sterilizing instruments.
11.Adequate areas for the secure storage of medical
records and necessary equipment and supplies.
12.The display in the abortion clinic, in a place
that is conspicuous to all patients, of the clinic's current license issued by
the department.
B.The director shall adopt rules to prescribe
abortion clinic supplies and equipment standards, including supplies and
equipment that are required to be immediately available for use or in an
emergency.At a minimum these rules shall:
1.Prescribe required equipment and supplies,
including medications, required for the conduct, in an appropriate fashion, of
any abortion procedure that the medical staff of the clinic anticipates
performing and for monitoring the progress of each patient throughout the
procedure and recovery period.
2.Require that the number or amount of equipment
and supplies at the clinic is adequate at all times to assure sufficient
quantities of clean and sterilized durable equipment and supplies to meet the
needs of each patient.
3.Prescribe required equipment, supplies and
medications that shall be available and ready for immediate use in an emergency
and requirements for written protocols and procedures to be followed by staff
in an emergency, such as the loss of electrical power.
4.Prescribe required equipment and supplies for
required laboratory tests and requirements for protocols to calibrate and
maintain laboratory equipment at the abortion clinic or operated by clinic
staff.
5.Require ultrasound equipment.
6.Require that all equipment is safe for the
patient and the staff, meets applicable federal standards and is checked
annually to ensure safety and appropriate calibration.
C.The director shall adopt rules relating to
abortion clinic personnel. At a minimum these rules shall require that:
1.The abortion clinic designate a medical director
of the abortion clinic who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 17 or
29.
2.Physicians performing abortions are licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17, demonstrate competence in the procedure
involved and are acceptable to the medical director of the abortion clinic.
3.A physician is available:
(a)For a surgical abortion who has admitting
privileges at a health care institution that is classified by the director as a
hospital pursuant to section 36405, subsection B and that is within
thirty miles of the abortion clinic.
(b)For a medication abortion who has admitting
privileges at a health care institution that is classified by the director as a
hospital pursuant to section 36405, subsection B.
4.If a physician is not present, a registered
nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed practical nurse or physician assistant is
present and remains at the clinic when abortions are performed to provide
postoperative monitoring and care, or monitoring and care after inducing a
medication abortion, until each patient who had an abortion that day is
discharged.
5.Surgical assistants receive training in
counseling, patient advocacy and the specific responsibilities of the services
the surgical assistants provide.
6.Volunteers receive training in the specific
responsibilities of the services the volunteers provide, including counseling
and patient advocacy as provided in the rules adopted by the director for
different types of volunteers based on their responsibilities.
D.The director shall adopt rules relating to the
medical screening and evaluation of each abortion clinic patient.At
a minimum these rules shall require:
1.A medical history, including the following:
(a)Reported allergies to medications, antiseptic
solutions or latex.
(b)Obstetric and gynecologic history.
(c)Past surgeries.
2.A physical examination, including a bimanual
examination estimating uterine size and palpation of the adnexa.
3.The appropriate laboratory tests, including:
(a)Urine or blood tests for pregnancy performed
before the abortion procedure.
(b)A test for anemia.
(c)Rh typing, unless reliable written documentation
of blood type is available.
(d)Other tests as indicated from the physical
examination.
4.An ultrasound evaluation for all
patients.The rules shall require that if a person who is not a
physician performs an ultrasound examination, that person shall have documented
evidence that the person completed a course in the operation of ultrasound
equipment as prescribed in rule.The physician or other health care
professional shall review, at the request of the patient, the ultrasound
evaluation results with the patient before the abortion procedure is performed,
including the probable gestational age of the fetus.
5.That the physician is responsible for estimating
the gestational age of the fetus based on the ultrasound examination and
obstetric standards in keeping with established standards of care regarding the
estimation of fetal age as defined in rule and shall write the estimate in the
patient's medical history.The physician shall keep original prints
of each ultrasound examination of a patient in the patient's medical history file.
E.The director shall adopt rules relating to the
abortion procedure. At a minimum these rules shall require:
1.That medical personnel is available to all
patients throughout the abortion procedure.
2.Standards for the safe conduct of abortion
procedures that conform to obstetric standards in keeping with established
standards of care regarding the estimation of fetal age as defined in rule.
3.Appropriate use of local anesthesia, analgesia
and sedation if ordered by the physician.
4.The use of appropriate precautions, such as the
establishment of intravenous access at least for patients undergoing second or
third trimester abortions.
5.The use of appropriate monitoring of the vital
signs and other defined signs and markers of the patient's status throughout
the abortion procedure and during the recovery period until the patient's
condition is deemed to be stable in the recovery room.
6.That any medication, drug or other substance used
to induce an or cause a medication abortion, as defined in section 362151, is
administered in compliance with the Mifeprex
final printing label protocol that is authorized approved by the United States food and drug
administration and that is outlined in
the final printing labeling instructions for that medication, drug or substance and in effect as of December 31, 2015.
F.The director shall adopt rules that prescribe
minimum recovery room standards.At a minimum these rules shall
require that:
1.For a surgical abortion, immediate postprocedure
care, or care provided after inducing a medication abortion, consists of
observation in a supervised recovery room for as long as the patient's
condition warrants.
2.The clinic arrange hospitalization if any
complication beyond the management capability of the staff occurs or is
suspected.
3.A licensed health professional who is trained in
the management of the recovery area and is capable of providing basic
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and related emergency procedures remains on the
premises of the abortion clinic until all patients are discharged.
4.For a surgical abortion, a physician with
admitting privileges at a health care institution that is classified by the
director as a hospital pursuant to section 36405, subsection B and that
is within thirty miles of the abortion clinic remains on the premises of the
abortion clinic until all patients are stable and are ready to leave the
recovery room and to facilitate the transfer of emergency cases if
hospitalization of the patient or viable fetus is necessary.A
physician shall sign the discharge order and be readily accessible and
available until the last patient is discharged.
5.A physician discusses RhO(d) immune globulin with
each patient for whom it is indicated and assures it is offered to the patient
in the immediate postoperative period or that it will be available to her
within seventytwo hours after completion of the abortion
procedure.If the patient refuses, a refusal form approved by the
department shall be signed by the patient and a witness and included in the
medical record.
6.Written instructions with regard to postabortion
coitus, signs of possible problems and general aftercare are given to each
patient.Each patient shall have specific instructions regarding
access to medical care for complications, including a telephone number to call
for medical emergencies.
7.There is a specified minimum length of time that
a patient remains in the recovery room by type of abortion procedure and
duration of gestation.
8.The physician assures that a licensed health
professional from the abortion clinic makes a good faith effort to contact the
patient by telephone, with the patient's consent, within twentyfour
hours after a surgical abortion to assess the patient's recovery.
9.Equipment and services are located in the
recovery room to provide appropriate emergency resuscitative and life support
procedures pending the transfer of the patient or viable fetus to the hospital.
G.The director shall adopt rules that prescribe
standards for followup visits.At a minimum these rules shall
require that:
1.For a surgical abortion, a postabortion medical
visit is offered and, if requested, scheduled for three weeks after the
abortion, including a medical examination and a review of the results of all
laboratory tests. For a medication abortion, the rules shall require that a
postabortion medical visit is scheduled between one week and three weeks after
the initial dose of for a medication abortion to
confirm the pregnancy is completely terminated and to assess the degree of
bleeding.
2.A urine pregnancy test is obtained at the time of
the followup visit to rule out continuing pregnancy.If a
continuing pregnancy is suspected, the patient shall be evaluated and a
physician who performs abortions shall be consulted.
H.The director shall adopt rules to prescribe
minimum abortion clinic incident reporting.At a minimum these rules
shall require that:
1.The abortion clinic records each incident
resulting in a patient's or viable fetus' serious injury occurring at an
abortion clinic and shall report them in writing to the department within ten
days after the incident. For the purposes of this paragraph, "serious
injury" means an injury that occurs at an abortion clinic and that creates
a serious risk of substantial impairment of a major body organ and includes any
injury or condition that requires ambulance transportation of the patient.
2.If a patient's death occurs, other than a fetal
death properly reported pursuant to law, the abortion clinic reports it to the
department not later than the next department work day.
3.Incident reports are filed with the department
and appropriate professional regulatory boards.
I.The director shall adopt rules relating to
enforcement of this article. At a minimum, these rules shall require that:
1.For an abortion clinic that is not in substantial
compliance with this article and the rules adopted pursuant to this article or
that is in substantial compliance but refuses to carry out a plan of correction
acceptable to the department of any deficiencies that are listed on the
department's state statement of deficiency, the
department may do any of the following:
(a)Assess a civil penalty pursuant to section 36431.01.
(b)Impose an intermediate sanction pursuant to
section 36427.
(c)Suspend or revoke a license pursuant to section
36427.
(d)Deny a license.
(e)Bring an action for an injunction pursuant to
section 36430.
2.In determining the appropriate enforcement
action, the department considers consider the threat of to the health, safety and welfare of the
abortion clinic's patients or the general public, including:
(a)Whether the abortion clinic has repeated
violations of statutes or rules.
(b)Whether the abortion clinic has engaged in a
pattern of noncompliance.
(c)The type, severity and number of violations.
J.The department shall not release personally
identifiable patient or physician information.
K.The rules adopted by the director pursuant to
this section do not limit the ability of a physician or other health
professional to advise a patient on any health issue. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Rulemaking exemption
For the purposes of this act, the department of health services
is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona
Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.

