







REFERENCE TITLE: respiratory care examiners







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1300









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending sections
323501, 323503, 32-3504, 323506, 32-3521, 32-3524, 323525,
323526 and 323553, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
board of respiratory care examiners.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-3501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Board" means the board of respiratory
care examiners.
2."Diagnostic testing" includes obtaining
physiologic samples and determining acidbase status and blood gas values
from blood samples and pulmonary function measurements.
3."Licensed respiratory care
practitioner" means a respiratory therapist or respiratory therapy technician who is licensed pursuant to
this chapter.
4."Medical direction" means direction by
a physician who is licensed
pursuant to chapter 13 or 17 of this title.
5."Practice of respiratory care" means
direct and indirect respiratory care services that are performed in a clinic, hospital,
skilled nursing facility or private dwelling or other place deemed appropriate
or necessary by the board in accordance with the prescription or verbal order
of a physician and performed under qualified medical direction.These
services include:
(a)Administering pharmacological, diagnostic and
therapeutic agents that are related
to respiratory care procedures and necessary to implement a treatment, disease
prevention, pulmonary rehabilitative or diagnostic regimen prescribed by a
physician.
(b)Transcribing and implementing the written or
verbal orders of a physician pertaining to the practice of respiratory care and
observing and monitoring signs and symptoms, general behavior, general physical
response responses to respiratory care treatment and
diagnostic testing, including a determination of whether these signs, symptoms,
reactions, behavior or general response
exhibits responses
exhibit abnormal characteristics.
(c)Implementing appropriate reporting, referral,
respiratory care protocols or changes in treatment based on observed
abnormalities and pursuant to a prescription by a physician WHO IS licensed pursuant to chapter 13 or 17
of this title.
(d)Initiating emergency procedures pursuant to
board rules or as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
(e)Respiratory therapy.
(f)Inhalation therapy.
(g)Therapeutics.
6."Respiratory therapist" means a person
who successfully completes a respiratory therapy training program approved by
the board.
7."Respiratory
therapy technician" means a person who successfully completes a training
program for respiratory therapy technicians approved by the board.
8.7."Respiratory
therapy training program" means a program that is accredited by the American medical association's committee on allied health
education and accreditation in collaboration with the joint review committee
for respiratory therapy education commission on accreditation for respiratory care or its
successor agency and that is adopted by the board.
9.8."Therapeutics"
includes the following:
(a)Applying and monitoring oxygen therapy.
(b)Administering pharmacological agents to the
cardiopulmonary systems.
(c)Ventilation therapy.
(d)Artificial airway care.
(e)Bronchial hygiene therapy.
(f)Cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
(g)Respiratory rehabilitation therapy.
(h)Barometric therapy.
(i)Assisting physicians licensed pursuant to
chapter 13 or 17 of this title with hemodynamic monitoring.
10.9."Unprofessional
conduct" includes the following acts:
(a)Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(b)Habitual intemperance in the use of alcohol.
(c)Illegal use of narcotic or hypnotic drugs or
substances.
(d)Gross incompetence, repeated incompetence or
incompetence resulting in injury to a patient.
(e)Having professional connection with or lending
the name of the licensee to an illegal practitioner of respiratory therapy or
any of the other healing arts.
(f)Failing to refer a patient whose condition is
beyond the training or ability of the respiratory therapist to another
professional qualified to provide such service.
(g)Immorality or misconduct that tends to discredit
the respiratory therapy profession.
(h)Refusal,
revocation or suspension of Having a license refused, revoked or suspended by any other
state, territory, district or country, unless it can be shown that this was not
caused by reasons which that relate to the person's
ability to safely and skillfully practice respiratory therapy or to an act of
unprofessional conduct prescribed in this paragraph.
(i)Any conduct or practice which that
is contrary to recognized standards of ethics of the respiratory
therapy profession or any conduct or practice which that
does or might constitute a danger to the health, welfare or
safety of the patient or the public.
(j)Any conduct, practice or condition which that does or might impair the person's ability
to safely and skillfully practice respiratory therapy.
(k)Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting in or abetting the violation of or conspiring to
violate a provision of this chapter.
(l)Failing to report to the board within ten calendar days an incident or
incidents which that appear to show the existence
of a cause for disciplinary action or that a licensed respiratory care
practitioner is or may be professionally incompetent or is or may be mentally
or physically unable to engage safely in the practice of respiratory care. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-3503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3503.Meetings; organization; compensation
A.The board shall meet in January of each year to
elect a chairman and other officers.The board shall hold at least
one additional meeting before the end of each calendar year.Other
meetings may be convened at the call of the chairman or the written request of
any two board members.A majority of the members of the board
constitutes a quorum.
B.All board meetings are open to the public, except that the board may hold closed
sessions to approve examinations or, on the request of an applicant who fails
an examination, to prepare a response indicating a reason for an applicant's
failure.
C.Board members are eligible to receive
compensation pursuant to section 38611
and are entitled to of
not more than one hundred dollars per day for each day spent in the discharge
of their duties and reimbursement of all expenses necessarily and properly
incurred in carrying out board duties attending meetings. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-3504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3504.Powers and duties; inspection of records; personnel
examinations; immunity; program termination
A.The board shall:
1.Enforce and administer the provisions of this
chapter.
2.Adopt rules necessary to administer this chapter.
3.Examine applicants for licensure pursuant to this
chapter at times and places it designates.
4.Investigate each applicant for licensure, before
a license is issued, in order to determine if the applicant is qualified
pursuant to this chapter.
5.Keep a record of all its acts and proceedings
pursuant to this chapter, including the issuance, refusal, renewal, suspension
or revocation of licenses.
6.Beginning
on January 1, 1999, Require each applicant for initial licensure
to submit a full set of fingerprints to the board for a state and federal
criminal history records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law
92544.
7.Maintain a register which that
contains the name, the last known place of residence and the date
and number of the license of all persons who are licensed pursuant to this chapter.
8.Compile, once every two years, a list of licensed
respiratory care practitioners who are authorized to practice in this state.
9.Establish minimum annual continuing education
requirements for persons who are licensed
under this chapter.
10.Establish
a confidential program for the monitoring of licensees who are chemically
dependent and who enroll in rehabilitation programs that meet the criteria
established by the board.The board may take further action if the
licensee refuses to enter into a stipulated agreement or fails to comply with
its terms.In order to protect the public health and safety, the
confidentiality requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the licensee
does not comply with the stipulated agreement.
B.The board, in approving training education programs for respiratory therapists and training programs for respiratory therapy
technicians,
shall consider the requirements and standards set by the American medical association's committee on allied health
education and accreditation in collaboration with the joint review committee
for respiratory therapy education commission on accreditation for respiratory care or its
successor organization.The board may recognize
examinations administered by a national board for respiratory care approved by
the board.
C.The board may conduct examinations under a
uniform examination system and may make arrangements with the national board of
respiratory care or other organizations regarding examination materials it
determines necessary and desirable.
D.The board and its members, personnel and board
examiners are personally immune from suit with respect to all acts done and
actions taken in good faith and in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
E.The
program established pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section ends
on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 41-3102. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 32-3506, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3506.Executive director; duties; compensation
A.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, the
board shall appoint an executive director who serves at the pleasure of the
board.The executive director shall not be a board member.
B.The executive director and other board employees
are eligible to receive compensation as determined pursuant to section 38611.
C.The executive director shall:
1.Perform the board's administrative duties.
2.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 and, as
applicable, articles 5 and 6, employ, evaluate, dismiss, discipline and direct
personnel as necessary to carry out board functions.
3.Initiate an investigation if there is reason to
believe that a licensee is incompetent, mentally or physically unable to safely
practice respiratory care or engaged in unprofessional conduct.
4.Issue subpoenas if necessary to compel the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, records,
documents and evidence.
5.As directed by the board, sign and execute
disciplinary orders, rehabilitative orders and notices of hearings.
6.On behalf of the board, enter into stipulated
agreements with licensees for the treatment, rehabilitation and monitoring of
chemical substance abuse or misuse.
7.On behalf
of the board, enter into stipulated agreements with licensees for the
confidential treatment, rehabilitation and monitoring of chemical dependency.
A licensee who materially fails to comply with a program requirement shall be
reported to the board and terminated from the confidential program established
pursuant to section 32-3504. Any records of a licensee who is terminated from
a confidential program are no longer confidential or exempt from the public
records law. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, stipulated agreements
are not public records if the following conditions are met:
(a)The licensee voluntarily agrees to participate in the
confidential program.
(b)The licensee complies with all treatment requirements or
recommendations, including participation in alcoholics anonymous or an
equivalent twelvestep program and support group.
(c)The licensee refrains from the practice of respiratory care
until the return to respiratory care has been approved by the treatment program
and the executive director or the executive director's designee.
(d)The licensee complies with all monitoring requirements of
the stipulated agreement, including random bodily fluid testing.
(e)The licensee's respiratory care employer is notified of the
licensee's chemical dependency and participation in the confidential program
and is provided a copy of the stipulated agreement.
7.8.Perform
all other duties required by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-3521, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3521.Allowable respiratory care services; transactions by
medical equipment dealers
A.This chapter does not prohibit:
1.The performance of respiratory care services that
are an integral part of a program of study by students who are enrolled in respiratory therapy
training programs if the services are rendered under the supervision of a
licensed respiratory care practitioner or a physician licensed pursuant to
chapter 13 or 17 of this title.
2.Selfcare by a patient or the gratuitous
care by a friend or relative who does not purport to be a licensed respiratory
care practitioner.
3.The performance of respiratory care services in
case of an emergency, including an epidemic or public disaster.
4.The performance of respiratory care services by
registered, certified or licensed individuals as provided pursuant to chapters
7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21, 25, 28 and 29 of this title and title 36,
chapter 21.1.
5.The performance of specific diagnostic testing
techniques relating to respiratory care by a person under medical direction in
a clinical laboratory that is regulated pursuant to title 36, chapter 4.1.
6.The performance of respiratory care services by a
person who is employed as
a respiratory therapist or respiratory
therapy technician by the United States government or any of its
agencies if that person provides respiratory therapy only under the direction
or control of the federal government or an agency of the federal government.
7.Medical equipment dealers who comply with
subsection B of this section from taking a prescription for respiratory
equipment, as long as that prescription is verified by a licensed respiratory
therapist or respiratory therapy
technician, and delivering oxygen equipment to or demonstrating
the operation, safety and maintenance of oxygen equipment at a patient's home.
B.In a sale or lease of respiratory equipment by a
medical equipment dealer to a patient, the terms of the sale or lease shall be
in writing and signed by the parties describing the date of the sale or lease,
the equipment to be sold or leased and the cost and method of payment for the
equipment and shall include verification by a licensed respiratory therapist or respiratory therapy technician
attesting that purchase or lease of the equipment is consistent with the
prescription and the needs of the patient.The patient shall be
provided a copy of all documents pertaining to the sale or lease at the time
the documents are signed by the parties. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 32-3524, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3524.Licensure without examination
The board may issue a license to an applicant without
examination if the applicant:
1.Files an application pursuant to section 323522.
2.Satisfies the requirements prescribed in section
323523.
3.At the time of his application applying, is either:
(a)Licensed as a licensed respiratory care
practitioner in another state in which, in the opinion of the board, the
licensure requirements are at least equivalent to those in this state and has
passed, to the satisfaction of the board, an examination in the state where he the applicant is licensed that is, in the
opinion of the board, equivalent to the examination given under its direction.
(b)Registered as a respiratory therapist or certified as a respiratory therapy
technician by a national organization for respiratory care
approved by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 32-3525, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3525.Renewal of license; late renewal
Except as provided in section 32-4301, a license issued under
this chapter is subject to renewal every other year on or before the birthday
of the licensee and expires unless renewed.The board may reinstate a license cancelled for failure to
renew on compliance with board requirements for renewal of licenses renew an expired license within ninety days
after the expiration of the license if the applicant has complied with all late
renewal application requirements and paid the application and renewal fees.
END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-3526, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3526.Fees
A.The board by rule shall establish and collect
fees that do not exceed the following:
1.Application for a license, one hundred dollars.
2.Application based on a diploma from a foreign
respiratory therapy school, two hundred dollars.
3.Initial license, two hundred dollars.
4.Renewal of a license or late renewal of a license, two hundred
dollars.
5.Duplicate license, fifty dollars.
6.Examination
fee, one hundred fifty dollars.
B.The board shall prescribe the fee necessary to
obtain a copy of the list of licensed respiratory care
practitioners.Any interested person may obtain a copy upon on payment of the fee.
C.The board by rule may establish and collect fees
for license renewals and verifications and for checks that are returned for
nonpayment because of insufficient monies, payments stopped or closed accounts.
END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 32-3553, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3553.Disciplinary action; duty to report; immunity;
proceedings; board action; confidentiality
A.The board on its own motion may investigate any
evidence that relates to a licensee and that appears to show the existence of
any of the causes for disciplinary action prescribed in section 323552
or that a licensed respiratory care practitioner is or may be professionally
incompetent or is or may be mentally or physically unable to engage safely in
the practice of respiratory care. A licensed respiratory care practitioner or
a health care institution as defined in section 36401 shall, and any
other person may, report to the board information the licensed respiratory
practitioner, health care institution or individual may have that appears to
show the existence of any of the causes for disciplinary action prescribed in
section 323552 or that a licensed respiratory care practitioner is or
may be professionally incompetent or is or may be mentally or physically unable
to engage safely in the practice of respiratory care.
B.A licensed respiratory care practitioner, a
health care institution or any other person that reports or provides
information to the board in good faith is not subject to an action for civil
damages as a result of reporting the information, and on request the name of
the reporter shall not be disclosed unless the information is essential to
proceedings conducted pursuant to this section. The board shall report a
health care institution that fails to report as required by this section to the
institution's licensing agency.
C.Within ninety days of receipt of information, the
board shall notify the licensed respiratory care practitioner about whom
information has been received as to the content of the information. Within twenty days after notification, the
licensed respiratory care practitioner shall submit to the board an answer to
the allegation contained in the initial complaint notification.
D.A health care institution shall inform the board
if a licensed respiratory care practitioner is terminated due to a cause listed
in section 323552, along with a general statement of the reasons that
led the health care institution to take the action.
E.If the board finds, based on the information it
receives pursuant to this section, that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action, and incorporates a finding to that
effect in its order, the board may order a summary suspension of a license
pending proceedings for revocation or other action.If an order of
summary suspension is issued, the licensee shall also be served with a written
notice of complaint and formal hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article
10, setting forth the
charges made against the licensee,
and is entitled to a formal hearing before the board on the charges within
sixty days.
F.On
determination of reasonable cause, the board, or if delegated by the board the
executive director, may require a licensee or applicant to undergo at the
expense of the licensee or applicant any combination of mental, physical or
psychological examinations, assessments or skills evaluations necessary to
determine the person's competence or ability to practice
safely.These examinations may include bodily fluid testing and
other examinations known to detect the presence of alcohol or drugs. If the
executive director orders the licensee or applicant to undertake an
examination, assessment or evaluation pursuant to this subsection and the
licensee or applicant fails to affirm to the board in writing within fifteen
days after receipt of the notice of the order that the licensee or applicant
intends to comply with the order, the executive director shall refer the matter
to the board to allow the board to determine whether to issue an order pursuant
to this subsection.At each regular meeting of the board, the
executive director shall report to the board data concerning orders issued by
the executive director pursuant to this subsection since the last regular
meeting of the board and any other data requested by the board.
F.G.If,
after completing its investigation, the board finds that the information
provided pursuant to this section is not of sufficient seriousness to merit
direct action against the license of the licensed respiratory care
practitioner, it may take any of the following actions:
1.Dismiss the complaint if the board believes that
the information is without merit.
2.File a letter of concern if the board believes
that while there is insufficient evidence to support direct action against the
license of the licensed respiratory care practitioner there is sufficient
evidence for the board to notify the licensee that continuing the activities
that led to the information being submitted to the board may result in action
against the license.
3.Issue a nondisciplinary order requiring the
licensee to complete a prescribed number of hours of continuing education in an
area or areas prescribed by the board to provide the licensee with the
necessary understanding of current developments, skills, procedures or
treatment.
G.H.If
after completing the investigation the board believes that the information
provided pursuant to this section is or may be true, the board may request an
interview with the licensee. If the licensee refuses this request or is
interviewed and the results indicate that suspension or revocation of the
license might be in order, the board shall issue a formal complaint and hold a
formal hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article10.If,
after completing the informal interview, the board finds that the information
provided pursuant to this section is not of sufficient seriousness to merit
suspension or revocation of the license, it
the board may either
dismiss the complaint if it
the board believes it the complaint is without merit or take any
combination of the following actions:
1.File a letter of concern if the board believes
that while there is insufficient evidence to support direct action against the
license there is sufficient evidence for the board to notify the licensee that
continuation of the activities that led to the information being submitted to
the board may result in action against that person's license.
2.Issue a decree of censure, which constitutes an
official action against the respiratory care practitioner's license.
3.Fix a period and terms of probation best adapted
to protect the public health and safety and rehabilitate or educate the
licensed respiratory care practitioner concerned.
4.Restrict the licensee's practice to specific
settings in a manner the board determines best protects the public health and
safety.
5.Issue a
civil penalty of up to five hundred dollars per violation.
5.6.Issue
a nondisciplinary order requiring the licensee to complete a prescribed number
of hours of continuing education in an area or areas prescribed by the board to
provide the licensee with the necessary understanding of current developments,
skills, procedures or treatment.
H.I.Failure
to comply with probation is cause for initiation of a formal proceeding for
suspension or revocation of a license pursuant to this section based on the
information considered by the board at the informal interview and any other acts
or conduct alleged to be in violation of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant
to this chapter.
I.J.If
the board finds that the information provided pursuant to this section warrants
suspension or revocation of a license issued under this chapter, the board
shall immediately initiate formal proceedings for the revocation or suspension
of the license as provided in title 41, chapter 6, article 10. If notice of the hearing is served by certified mail,
service is complete on the date the notice is placed in the mail. At
the conclusion of that hearing the board may dismiss the complaint or revoke or
suspend the license and may take any combination of actions listed in
subsection G H of this section.
K.A
licensee shall respond in writing to the board within thirty days after notice
of the hearing is served as prescribed in subsection j of this
section.The board may consider a licensee's failure to respond
within this time as an admission by default to the allegations stated in the
complaint. The board may then take any disciplinary action allowed by this
chapter without conducting a hearing.
J.L.In
connection with the board investigation the board or its duly authorized agents
or employees at all reasonable times may examine and copy any documents,
reports, records or other physical evidence of any person being investigated,
or the reports, the records and any of the documents maintained by and in the
possession of any hospital, clinic, physician's office, or other public or
private agency, and any health care institution as defined in section 36401,
that relate to the person's professional competence, unprofessional conduct or
mental or physical ability to safely practice respiratory care. These requests
shall be made in writing.
K.M.Patient
records, hospital records, medical staff records, medical staff review
committee records, clinical records, medical reports, laboratory statements and
reports, any file, film, other report or oral statement relating to the care of
patients, any information from which a patient or a patient's family may be
identified or information received or reports kept by the board as a result of
the investigation procedure prescribed in this chapter and testimony concerning
these records and proceedings relating to their creation are not available to
the public, shall be kept confidential by the board and are subject to the same
provisions concerning discovery and use and legal actions as are the original
records in the possession and control of the hospital, the health care
institutions or health care providers or other individual, practitioner or
agency from which they are secured. The board shall use the records and
testimony during the course of investigations and proceedings pursuant to this
chapter. END_STATUTE

