








REFERENCE TITLE: business entities; shareholders;
  officers; directors








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1356









Introduced by
Senator
  Worsley; Representatives Coleman: Brophy McGee, Cobb, Mesnard, Norgaard,
  Shope





AN ACT

amending sections
10-140, 10-202, 10-204, 10-302, 10-304, 10704, 10708, 10722,
10732, 10821 and 10830, arizona revised statutes; amending
title 10, chapter 8, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 10831;
amending section 10842, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 10,
chapter 8, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding sections 10845
and 10846; amending sections 101407, 101503, 101504,
101506 and 101531, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 10,
chapter 16, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 101636;
amending sections 101702, 102401, 102431, 102432,
102702 and 103202, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 29,
chapter 4, article 12, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 29858;
relating to business entities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 10-140, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-140.Definitions
In chapters 1 through 17 of this title, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Acknowledged" or
"acknowledgment" means either an acknowledgment pursuant to title 33,
chapter 4, article 5 or the signature, without more, of the person or persons
signing the instrument, in which case the signature or signatures constitute
the affirmation or acknowledgment of the signatory, under penalties of perjury,
that the instrument is the act and deed of the signatory and that the facts
stated in the instrument are true.
2."Act of the board of directors" means
either:
(a)An act of the majority of the directors present
at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present, unless the act of a
greater number is required by chapters 1 through 17 of this title, the articles
of incorporation or the bylaws.
(b)Action taken by written consent of the directors
in accordance with chapters 1 through 17 of this title.
3."Act of the shareholders" means either:
(a)An act adopted or rejected by a majority of the
votes entitled to be cast by each class of shareholders entitled to vote on the
act at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present, unless a greater
number of votes is required by chapters 1 through 17 of this title, the
articles of incorporation or the bylaws.
(b)An action taken by written consent of the
shareholders in accordance with chapters 1 through 17 of this title.
4."Address" means a mailing address.
5."Affiliate" means a person that directly
or indirectly, through
one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common
control with the person specified.
6."Articles of incorporation" means the
original or restated articles of incorporation or articles of merger and all amendments
to the articles of incorporation or merger and includes amended and restated
articles of incorporation and articles of amendment and merger.
7."Authorized shares" means the shares of
all classes that a domestic or foreign corporation is authorized to issue.
8."Board of directors" means the group of
persons vested with the management of the affairs of the corporation
irrespective of the name by which the group is designated and includes the
governing body or bodies of a water users' association if the articles of
incorporation of such water users' association provide for a governing body or
bodies denominated other than as a board of directors.
9."Business day" means a day that is not
a Saturday, a Sunday or any other legal holiday in this state.
10."Bylaws" means the code of rules
adopted for the regulation or management of the affairs of the corporation
irrespective of the name by which those rules are designated.
11."Certificate of disclosure" means the
certificate of disclosure described in section 10202.
12."Commission" means the Arizona
corporation commission.
13."Conspicuous" means so written that a
reasonable person against whom the writing is to operate should have noticed
it.For example, printing in italics, boldface or contrasting color
or typing in capitals or underlined is conspicuous.
14."Corporation" or "domestic
corporation" means a corporation for profit that is not a foreign
corporation and that is incorporated under or subject to chapters 1 through 17
of this title.
15."Court" means the superior court of
this state.
16."Deliver" includes sending by mail, private courier or
telefacsimile transmission.
17."Delivery" means actual receipt by the
person or entity to which directed.
18."Dissolved" means the status of a
corporation on either:
(a)Effectiveness of articles of dissolution
pursuant to section 101403, subsection B or section 101421,
subsection B.
(b)A decree pursuant to section 101433,
subsection B becoming final.
19."Distribution" means a direct or
indirect transfer of money or other property, except its own shares, or
incurrence of indebtedness by a corporation to or for the benefit of its
shareholders in respect of any of its shares.A distribution may be
in the form of any of the following:
(a)A declaration or payment of a dividend.
(b)Any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of
shares.
(c)A distribution of indebtedness.
(d)Otherwise.
20."Effective date of notice" is as
prescribed in section 10141.
21."Electronic
transmission" means any form or process of communication that does not
directly involve the physical transfer of paper or another tangible medium that
is suitable for the retention, retrieval and reproduction of information by the
recipient and that is retrievable in paper form by the recipient through an
automated process used in conventional commercial practice, unless otherwise
authorized pursuant to section 10141.
21.22."Employee"
includes an officer but not a director.A director may accept duties
that make the director also an employee.
22.23."Entity"
includes a corporation, foreign corporation, not for profit corporation, profit
and not for profit unincorporated association, nonprofit corporation, close
corporation, corporation sole or limited liability company, a professional
corporation, association or limited liability company, a business trust,
estate, partnership, registered limited liability partnership, trust or joint
venture, two or more persons having a joint or common economic interest, any person
other than an individual and a state, the United States and a foreign
government.
23.24."Executed
by the corporation" means executed by manual or facsimile signature on
behalf of the corporation by a duly authorized officer or, if the corporation is
in the hands of a receiver or trustee, by the receiver or trustee.
24.25."Filing"
means the commission completing the following procedure with respect to any
document delivered for that purpose:
(a)Determining that the filing fee requirements of
section 10122 have been satisfied.
(b)Determining that the document appears in all
respects to conform to the requirements of chapters 1 through 17 of this title.
(c)On making the determinations, endorsement of the
word "filed" with the applicable date on or attached to the document
and the return of copies to the person who delivered the document or the
person's representative.
25.26."Foreign
corporation" means a corporation for profit that is incorporated under a
law other than the law of this state.
26.27."Governmental
subdivision" includes an authority, county, district, municipality and
political subdivision.
27.28."Includes"
and "including" denotes a partial definition.
28.29."Individual"
includes the estate of an incompetent or deceased individual.
29.30."Insolvent"
means inability of a corporation to pay its debts as they become due in the
usual course of its business.
30.31."Known
place of business" means the known place of business required to be
maintained pursuant to section 10501.
31.32."Liquidate
its assets and business" includes the distribution of assets, the payment
of obligations and debts, the discontinuance of business or any one or more of
the distribution, payment or discontinuance.
32.33."Mail",
"to mail" or "have mailed" means to deposit or have
deposited a communication in the United States mail with first class or airmail
postage prepaid.
33.34."Means"
denotes an exhaustive definition.
34.35."Newspaper"
has the meaning set forth in section 39201.
35.36."Notice"
and "notify" are as prescribed in section 10141.
36.37."Person"
includes an individual and entity.
37.38."President"
means that officer designated as the president in the articles of incorporation
or bylaws or, if not so designated, that officer authorized in the articles of
incorporation, bylaws or otherwise to perform the functions of the chief
executive officer, irrespective of the name by which designated.
38.39."Principal
office" means the office, in or out of this state, so designated in the
annual report where the principal executive offices of a domestic or foreign
corporation are located or in any other document executed by the corporation by
an officer and delivered to the commission for filing. If an office has not
been so designated, principal office means the known place of business of the
corporation.
39.40."Proceeding"
includes a civil suit and a criminal, administrative and investigatory action.
40.41."Publish"
means to publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the county of the
known place of business for three consecutive publications.
41.42."Record
date" means the date established under chapter 6 or 7 of this title on
which a corporation determines the identity of its shareholders and their
shareholdings for purposes of chapters 1 through 17 of this title. The
determinations shall be made as of the close of business on the record date
unless another time for doing so is specified when the record date is fixed.
42.43."Secretary"
means that officer designated as the secretary in the articles of incorporation
or bylaws or that officer authorized in the articles of incorporation, the
bylaws or otherwise to perform the functions of secretary, irrespective of the
name by which designated.
43.44."Shareholder"
means the person in whose name shares are registered in the records of a
corporation or the beneficial owner of shares to the extent of the rights
granted by a nominee certificate on file with a corporation.
44.45."Shares"
means the units into which the proprietary interests in a corporation are
divided.
45.46."State",
if referring to a part of the United States, includes a state and commonwealth
and their agencies and governmental subdivisions and a territory and insular
possession of the United States and their agencies and governmental
subdivisions.
46.47."Subscriber"
means a person who subscribes for shares in a corporation, whether before or
after incorporation.
47.48."Treasurer"
means that officer designated as the treasurer in the articles of incorporation
or bylaws or that officer authorized in the articles of incorporation, or bylaws or otherwise to perform the
functions of treasurer, irrespective of the name by which designated.
48.49."United
States" includes a district, authority, bureau, commission and department
and any other agency of the United States.
49.50."Vicepresident"
means an officer designated as the vicepresident in the articles of
incorporation or bylaws or an officer authorized in the articles of
incorporation, the bylaws or otherwise to perform the functions of a vicepresident,
irrespective of the name by which designated.
50.51."Voting
group" means all shares of one or more classes or series that under the
articles of incorporation or chapters 1 through 17 of this title are entitled
to vote and be counted together collectively on a matter at a meeting of
shareholders.All shares entitled by the articles of incorporation
or chapters 1 through 17 of this title to vote generally on the matter are for
that purpose a single voting group.
51.52."Water
users' association" means a corporation that operates a federal
reclamation project pursuant to a contract with the United States. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 10-202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-202.Articles of incorporation; violation; classification 
A.The articles of incorporation shall set forth:
1.A corporate name for the corporation that
satisfies the requirements of section 10401.
2.The number of shares the corporation is
authorized to issue.
3.A brief statement of the character of business
that the corporation initially intends to actually conduct in this
state.This statement does not constitute a limitation on the
character of business that the corporation ultimately may conduct.
4.The name and address of each person who is to
serve as a director until a successor is elected and qualifies.
5.The name, street address and signature of the
corporation's statutory agent.
6.The street address of the known place of business
for the corporation, if different from that of its statutory agent.
7.The name and address of each incorporator.
8.Any provision elected by the incorporators that
under chapters 1 through 17 of this title or any other law of this state may be
elected only by specific inclusion in the articles of incorporation.
9.The signatures of all incorporators.
B.The articles of incorporation may set forth:
1.A provision eliminating or limiting the liability
of a director to the corporation or its shareholders for money damages for any
action taken or any failure to take any action as a director, except liability
for any of the following:
(a)The amount of a financial benefit received by a
director to which the director is not entitled.
(b)An intentional infliction of harm on the
corporation or the shareholders.
(c)A violation of section 10833.
(d)An intentional violation of criminal law.
2.A provision permitting or making obligatory
indemnification of a director for liability, as defined in section 10850,
to any person for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, as a
director, except liability for any of the exceptions described in paragraph 1
of this subsection.
3.Any other provision, not inconsistent with law.
C.The articles of incorporation need not set forth
any of the corporate powers enumerated in chapters 1 through 17 of this title.
D.The certificate of
disclosure shall set forth all of the following:
1.The following
information regarding all persons who at the time of its delivery are officers,
directors, trustees, incorporators and persons controlling or holding over ten per cent percent of the issued and outstanding common
shares or ten per cent percent of any other
proprietary, beneficial or membership interest in the corporation:
(a)Whether any of the persons have been convicted
of a felony involving a transaction in securities, consumer fraud or antitrust
in any state or federal jurisdiction within the seven year fiveyear period immediately preceding
the execution of the certificate.
(b)Whether any of the persons have been convicted
of a felony, the essential elements of which consisted of fraud,
misrepresentation, theft by false pretenses or restraint of trade or monopoly
in any state or federal jurisdiction within the seven year fiveyear period immediately preceding
the execution of the certificate.
(c)Whether any of the persons are or have been
subject to an injunction, judgment, decree or permanent order of any state or
federal court entered within the seven
year fiveyear period
immediately preceding the execution of the certificate, if the injunction,
judgment, decree or permanent order involved any of the following:
(i)The violation of fraud or registration
provisions of the securities laws of that jurisdiction.
(ii)The violation of the consumer fraud laws of
that jurisdiction.
(iii)The violation of the antitrust or restraint of
trade laws of that jurisdiction.
(d)With regard to any of the persons who have been
convicted of the crimes or who are the subject of the judicial action described
in subdivisions (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph, information regarding:
(i)Identification of the persons, including present
full name, all prior names or aliases, including full birth name, present home
address, all prior addresses for the immediately preceding seven year fiveyear period and date and location
of birth.
(ii)The nature and description of each conviction
or judicial action, the date and location, the court and public agency
involved, and the file or cause number of the case.
2.A brief statement disclosing whether any persons
who at the time of its delivery are officers, directors, trustees,
incorporators and persons controlling or holding over twenty per cent percent of the issued and outstanding common shares or
twenty per cent percent of any other
proprietary, beneficial or membership interest in the corporation and who have
served in any such capacity or held a twenty per cent percent interest in any other corporation on the bankruptcy
or receivership of the other corporation. If so, for each corporation, the
certificate shall include:
(a)The names and addresses of each corporation and
the person or persons involved.
(b)The state in which each corporation:
(i)Was incorporated.
(ii)Transacted business.
(c)The dates of corporate operation.
3.The signatures of all of the incorporators.
4.The date of its execution, which shall be not
more than thirty days before its delivery to the commission.
5.A declaration by each signer that he swears to
its contents under penalty of law.
E.The certificate of disclosure may set forth the
name and address of any other person whom the incorporators elect to be the
subject of those disclosures required under subsection D, paragraph 1 of this
section.
F.If within sixty days after delivering the
articles of incorporation and certificate of disclosure to the commission any
person becomes an officer, director, trustee or person controlling or holding
over ten per cent percent of the issued and
outstanding shares or ten per cent
percent of any other
proprietary, beneficial or membership interest in the corporation and the
person was not the subject of the disclosures set forth in the certificate of
disclosure, the incorporators or, if the organization of the corporation has
been completed as provided in section 10205, the corporation shall
execute and deliver to the commission within the sixty-day period a declaration, sworn to under
penalty of law, setting forth all information required by subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section regarding the person. If the incorporators or, as
applicable, the corporation fail to comply with this subsection, the commission
may administratively dissolve the corporation pursuant to section 101421.
G.If any of the persons described in subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section have been convicted of the crimes or are the
subject of the judicial action described in subsection D, paragraph 1 of this
section, the commission may direct detailed interrogatories to the persons
requiring any additional relevant information deemed necessary by the
commission.The interrogatories shall be completely answered within
thirty days after mailing of the interrogatories.With respect to
corporations incorporating or seeking authority to transact business, articles
of incorporation or an application for authority shall not be filed until all
outstanding interrogatories have been answered to the satisfaction of the
commission. With respect to existing domestic and foreign corporations, if the
interrogatories are not answered as provided in this subsection or the answers
to the interrogatories otherwise indicate proper grounds for an administrative
dissolution, the commission shall initiate an administrative dissolution in
accordance with chapters 1 through 17 of this title.
H.On a quarterly updated basis, the commission
shall provide to the attorney general a list of all persons who are convicted
of the crimes or who are the subject of the judicial action described in
subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section as indicated by the certificates of
disclosure filed during the preceding three months.
I.Any person who executes or contributes
information for a certificate of disclosure and who intentionally makes any
untrue statement of material fact or withholds any material fact with regard to
the information required in subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section is guilty
of a class 6 felony. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 10-204, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-204.Actions before incorporation; liability
All persons any person purporting to act
as or on behalf of a corporation with
actual knowledge that
knew or should have known that no the
corporation exists has not been formed under
chapters 1 through 17 of this title are
jointly and severally is liable
to the extent not precluded by section 122506
for all debts and liabilities
created while so acting incurred by the act. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 10-302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-302.General powers
Unless its articles of incorporation provide otherwise, every
corporation has perpetual duration and succession in its corporate name and has
the same powers as an individual to do all things necessary or convenient to
carry out its business and affairs, including power to:
1.Sue and be sued, complain and defend in its
corporate name.
2.Have a corporate seal, which may be altered at
will, and to use it, or a facsimile of it, by impressing or affixing it or in
any other manner reproducing it.
3.Make and amend bylaws, not inconsistent with its
articles of incorporation or with the laws of this state, for managing the
business and regulating the affairs of the corporation.
4.Purchase, receive, lease or otherwise acquire and
to own, hold, improve, use and otherwise deal with real or personal property or
anyinterest in property wherever located.
5.Sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange
and otherwise dispose of all or any part of its property.
6.Purchase, receive, subscribe for or otherwise
acquire, own, hold, vote, use, sell, mortgage, lend, pledge or otherwise
dispose of and dealwith shares or other interests in or obligations of
any other entity.
7.Make contracts and guarantees, incur liabilities,
borrow monies, issue its notes, bonds and other obligations, which may be
convertible into or include the option to purchase other securities of the
corporation, and secure any of its obligations by mortgage, deed of trust,
security agreement, pledge or other encumbrance of any of its property,
franchises or income.
8.Issue any bond, debenture or debt security of the
corporation by causing one or more officers designated in the bylaws or by the
board of directors to sign the bond, debenture or debt security either manually
or in facsimile and, if deemed necessary or appropriate by the officers, by
causing its authentication, countersignature or registration, either manually
or in facsimile, by a trustee, transfer agent or registrar other than the
corporation itself or an employee of the corporation.If an officer
who has signed, either manually or in facsimile, a bond, debenture or debt
security as provided in this paragraph ceases for any reason to be an officer
before the security is issued, the corporation may issue the security with the
same effect as if the officer were still in office at the date of issue.
9.Lend monies, invest and reinvest its monies and
receive and hold real and personal property as security for repayment.
10.Be a promoter, incorporator, partner, member,
associate or manager of any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or
other entity.
11.Conduct its business, locate offices and
exercise the powers granted by chapters 1 through 17 of this title within or
without this state.
12.Elect directors and appoint officers, employees
and agents of the corporation, define their duties, fix their compensation and
lend them monies and credit.
13.Pay pensions and establish pension plans,
pension trusts, profit sharing plans, share bonus plans, share option plans and
benefit or incentive plans for any of its or its affiliates' current or former
directors, officers, employees and agents.
14.Eliminate or limit the liability of its
directors in the manner and to the extent provided by section 10202 and
chapter 8, article 5 of this title.
15.Make donations for the public welfare or for
charitable, scientific or educational purposes.
16.Transact any lawful business that will aid
governmental policy.
17.Make payments or donations or do any other act
not inconsistent with law that furthers the business and affairs of the
corporation.
18.Take any
action to pursue any purpose, including a nonmonetary purpose as defined in
section 10-846 or to create any private or public benefit. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 10-304, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-304.Validity of actions
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the validity
of corporate action may not be challenged on the ground that the corporation
lacks or lacked power to act.
B.A corporation's power to act may be challenged
either:
1.In a proceeding by a shareholder against the
corporation to enjoin the act.
2.In a proceeding by the corporation, directly,
derivatively or through any receiver, trustee or other legal representative,
against an incumbent or former director, officer, employee or agent of the
corporation.
3.In a proceeding by the attorney general as
provided in chapters 1 through 17 of this title to dissolve the corporation or
in a proceeding by the attorney general to enjoin the corporation from the
transaction of unauthorized business.
C.In a shareholder's proceeding under subsection B,
paragraph 1 of this section to
enjoin an unauthorized corporate act, the court may enjoin or set aside the
act, if equitable and if all affected persons are parties to the proceeding,
and may award damages for loss, other than anticipated profits, suffered by the
corporation or another party because of enjoining the unauthorized act. 
D.Except as
provided in sections 10-831 and 10-845, any person who purports to act on
behalf of a corporation as an officer or a director and who knew or should have
known that the person did not have authority to act is liable for all debts and
liabilities incurred by the act.This subsection does not apply to a
person who acts on behalf of a corporation that has been administratively
dissolved unless the person has actual knowledge of the dissolution. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 10-704, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-704.Action by shareholders without meeting; notice
A.Except as
provided in subsection B of this section, an action required or
permitted by chapters 1 through 17 of this title to be taken at a shareholders'
meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all of the shareholders entitled to vote on the
action there is written
consent by the holders of outstanding shares that are entitled to at least the
minimum number of votes necessary to authorize or take the action at a meeting
at which all shares entitled to vote on the action are present and voted.The
action taken by the written consent of
the shareholders must be evidenced by one or more written
consents describing the action taken, and signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote on the action and
holders of outstanding shares that are
entitled to at least the minimum number of votes necessary to authorize or take
the action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote on the action are
present and voted.The written consents to the action must be delivered
to the corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate
records.
B.An action
taken by shareholders without a shareholders' meeting must be taken by all
shareholders and must be evidenced by written consent of all shareholders of
the corporation if any of the following applies:
1.The
action involves the election of directors or the removal of one or more
directors.
2.The
articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation require that an action
taken by shareholders without a shareholders' meeting must be taken by all
shareholders of the corporation.
3.The
corporation is an issuing public corporation, as defined in section 10-2701,
unless otherwise provided in its articles of incorporation or bylaws.
4.The
corporation was formed in this state before the effective date of this
amendment to this section unless its articles of incorporation or bylaws are
amended after the effective date of this amendment to this section to provide
that any action that is required or allowed to be taken at a shareholders'
meeting may be taken without a meeting if there is written consent setting
forth the action by the holders of outstanding shares that have at least the minimum
number of votes necessary to authorize or take the action at a meeting at which
all shares entitled to vote on the action are present and voted. For the
purposes of this paragraph, a corporation that becomes a corporation in this
state by domestication, conversion or division before the effective date of
this amendment to this section is deemed formed in this state before the
effective date of this amendment to this section.
C.The
written consents described in subsections A and B of this section include
electronic transmission.All written consents must be included in
the minutes or filed with the corporate records. The filing must be in a paper
format if the minutes are maintained in a paper format and must be in an
electronic format if the minutes are maintained in an electronic format.
B.D.If
not otherwise fixed under section 10703 or 10707, the record date
for determining shareholders entitled to take action without a meeting is the
date the first shareholder signs the consent under subsection A or b of this section.
C.E.A
consent signed under this section has the effect of a meeting vote and may be
described as such in any document.
D.F.Unless
otherwise specified in the consent or
consents, the action is effective on the date that the last shareholder signs the consent or consents as prescribed by subsection A or B of this
section have been delivered to the corporation, except that if
chapters 1 through 17 of this title require that notice of proposed actions be
given to shareholders not entitled to vote and the action is to be taken by
unanimous consent of the shareholders entitled to vote, the effective date is
not before ten days after the corporation gives its shareholders not entitled
to vote written notice of the proposed action.The notice must
contain or be accompanied by the same material that under chapters 1 through 17
of this title would have been required to be sent to shareholders not entitled
to vote in a notice of meeting at which the proposed action would have been submitted
to the shareholders for action.
E.G.Any
shareholder may revoke its the shareholder's consent by
delivering a signed revocation of the consent to the president or secretary
before the date that the last shareholder
signs the consent or consents as prescribed by subsection A or B of this section have
been delivered to the corporation.
h.notice of
the taking of a corporate action without a meeting must be given within thirty
days after the effective date of the corporate action to both of the following:
1.Each
shareholder of record on the record date for determining shareholders who are
entitled to take the action pursuant to subsection D of this section and who
did not consent to the action in writing.
2.Each
shareholder who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been
entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date for notice of the meeting
had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of
holders to take the action were delivered to the corporation pursuant to
subsection A of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 10-708, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-708.Participation in shareholders' meetings; remote
communication
A.Unless
the articles of incorporation or bylaws provide otherwise, the board of
directors may permit any or all shareholders to participate in an annual or
special shareholders' meeting by or conduct the meeting through use of any
means of remote
communication by which all shareholders
participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting.If
the board of directors in its sole
discretion elects to permit participation by such means of remote communication, the notice of the
meeting shall specify how a shareholder may participate in the meeting by such means of remote communication.The Participation may be limited
by the board of directors in its sole
discretion to specified locations or means of communications.A shareholder participating in a
meeting by this means is deemed to be present in person at the meeting communication.
B.Unless
the articles of incorporation or bylaws provide otherwise, if authorized by the
board of directors and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the board
of directors may adopt, shareholders not physically present at a meeting of
shareholders, by means of remote communication, may both:
1.Participate
in a meeting of shareholders.
2.Be deemed
present in person and vote at a meeting of shareholders, whether the meeting is
to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication if
the corporation does all of the following:
(a)Implements reasonable measures
to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting
by means of remote communication is a shareholder.
(b)Implements reasonable measures
to provide shareholders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting
and to vote on matters submitted to the shareholders substantially concurrently
with the proceedings.Participation may be through verbal, written
or other suitable means of communication as described by this section.
(c)Maintains a record of the vote
or other action if any shareholder votes or takes other action at the meeting
by means of remote communication.
C.All votes
of shareholders must be in writing, unless otherwise provided for in the
articles of incorporation or bylaws. If authorized by the articles of
incorporation, bylaws or board of directors, the requirement of a writing may
be satisfied by a vote submitted by electronic transmission if the electronic
transmission is either set forth or is submitted with information from which it
can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the
shareholder. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 10-722, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-722.Proxies
A.A shareholder may vote its shares in person or by
proxy.
B.Each A shareholder who is entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders or to
express consent or dissent to corporate action without a meeting may in writing
authorize another person or persons or the shareholder's agent or ATTORNEYinfact
appoints a proxy to vote
or otherwise act for the shareholder by proxy.The person or persons shall not vote or act
on the proxy twelve months or more after the date on the proxy statement signing an appointment form or by an
electronic transmission.
An electronic transmission must contain or be accompanied by information from
which the recipient can determine the date of the transmission and that the
transmission was authorized by the sender or the sender's agent or attorneyinfact.
C.An
appointment of a proxy is effective when the secretary, inspector of election or
other officer or agent who is authorized to tabulate votes receives the proxy a signed appointment form or an electronic transmission of
the appointment.Unless
the articles of incorporation or bylaws provide otherwise, an appointment is
valid for twelve months unless a shorter or longer period is expressly provided
in the appointment form.
C.A
shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the shareholder
as a proxy pursuant to subsection B of this section in any manner, including
the following:
1.A
shareholder may execute a written statement that authorizes another person or
persons to act for the shareholder as proxies.The shareholder, or
the shareholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent may execute
the statement by signing it or causing the signature to be affixed to the
statement by any reasonable means including by telefacsimile signature.
2.A
shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the shareholder
as a proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram,
cablegram or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be
the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service
organization or a similar agent that is authorized by the person who will be
the holder of the proxy to receive the transmission.Any telegram,
cablegram or other means of electronic transmission shall include information
that demonstrates that the shareholder authorized the telegram, cablegram or
other means of electronic transmission.The inspector or, if there
is no inspector, any other person who makes a determination that the telegram,
cablegram or other means of electronic transmission is valid shall specify the
information on which the inspector or other person relied to make the validity
determination.
D.Any copy,
telefacsimile, telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the written
statement or transmission made pursuant to subsection C of this section may be
substituted for or used in lieu of the original written statement or
transmission for any purpose for which the original written statement or
transmission could be used if the copy, telefacsimile, telecommunication or
other reliable reproduction of the written statement or transmission is a
complete reproduction of the entire original written statement or transmission.
E.D.An executed appointment of a proxy is revocable by the
shareholder unless the proxy conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and it
is coupled with an interest.Proxies coupled with an interest
include the appointment of any of the following:
1.A pledgee.
2.A person who purchased, agreed to purchase, holds
an option to purchase or holds any other right to acquire the shares.
3.A creditor of the corporation who extended or
continued credit to the corporation under terms requiring the appointment.
4.An employee of the corporation whose employment
contract requires the appointment.
5.A party to a voting agreement created under
section 10731.
F.E.The
death or incapacity of the shareholder appointing a proxy does not affect the
right of the corporation to accept the proxy's authority unless written notice
of the death or incapacity is received by the secretary, the inspector of election or other officer
or agent authorized to tabulate votes before the proxy exercises the proxy's
authority under the appointment.
G.F.A proxy an appointment that is made irrevocable under
subsection E D of this section is revoked
when the interest with which it is coupled is extinguished.
H.G.A
transferee for value of shares subject to an irrevocable proxy
appointment may revoke the proxy appointment if the transferee
did not know of its existence when the transferee acquired the shares and the
existence of the irrevocable proxy appointment was not noted
conspicuously on the certificate representing the shares or on the information
statement for shares without certificates.
I.H.Subject
to section 10724 and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the proxy stated in the appointment form or electronic
transmission, a corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's
vote or other action as that of the shareholder executing the proxy.
J.I.Notwithstanding
the other provisions of this section, a water users' association may provide in
its articles of incorporation the qualifications of shareholders to vote,
eliminate the right to vote by proxy, specify the locations where votes may be
cast and limit voting to natural persons.A water users' association
may adopt bylaws for the registration of voters and method of holding
elections. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 10-732, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-732.Shareholder agreements
A.An agreement among the shareholders of a
corporation that complies with this section is effective among the shareholders
and the corporation even though it is inconsistent with one or more other
provisions of chapters 1 through 17 of this title if it meets any of the
following conditions:
1.Restricts the discretion or powers of the board
of directors.
2.Governs the authorization or making of
distributions whether or not in proportion to ownership of shares, subject to
the limitations in section 10640.
3.Establishes who shall be directors or officers of
the corporation, their terms and conditions of office or employment or their
manner of selection or removal.
4.Governs, in general or in regard to specific
matters, the exercise or division of voting power by or between the
shareholders and directors or by or among any of them, including use of
weighted voting rights or director proxies.
5.Establishes the terms and conditions of any
agreement for the transfer or use of property or the provision of services
between the corporation and any shareholder, director, officer or employee of
the corporation or among any of them.
6.Transfers to one or more shareholders or other
persons all or part of the authority to exercise the corporate powers or to
manage the business and affairs of the corporation, including the resolution of
any issue about which there exists a deadlock among directors or shareholders.
7.Requires dissolution of the corporation at the
request of one or more of the shareholders or on the occurrence of a specified
event or contingency.
8.Establishes the terms and conditions of employment
of shareholders.
9.Addresses the use of arbitration or other forms
of dispute resolution to resolve disputes among shareholders.
10.Restricts the transfer of shares.
11.Otherwise governs the exercise of the corporate
powers or the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, its
liquidation and dissolution or the relationship among the shareholders, the
directors and the corporation, or among any of them.
B.An agreement authorized by this section shall be:
1.Set forth either:
(a)In the articles of incorporation or bylaws and
approved by all persons who are shareholders at the time of the agreement.
(b)In a written agreement that is signed by all
persons who are shareholders at the time of the agreement and that is filed
with the corporation.
2.Subject to amendment or termination only by all
persons who are shareholders at the time of the amendment, unless the agreement
provides otherwise.
3.Valid for ten
years the duration of the
corporation's existence, unless the agreement provides otherwise.
C.An agreement authorized by this section is
enforceable by any party to the agreement
against any other party to the agreement person with standing.The
existence of an agreement authorized by this section shall be noted conspicuously
on the front or back of each certificate for outstanding shares or on the
information statement required by section 10626,
subsectionB.The failure to note the existence of the
agreement on the certificate or information statement does not affect the
validity of the agreement or any action taken pursuant to it.Any
purchaser of shares who at the time of purchase did not have knowledge of the
existence of the agreement is entitled to rescission of the
purchase.A purchaser shall be deemed to have knowledge of the
existence of the agreement if its existence is noted on the certificate or
information statement for the shares in compliance with this subsection and, if
the shares are not represented by a certificate, the information statement is delivered
to the purchaser at or before the time of purchase of the shares or the
purchaser has actual notice of the existence of the agreement at the time of
purchase.An action to enforce the right of rescission authorized by
this subsection must be commenced within the earlier of ninety days after
discovery of the existence of the agreement or two years after the time of the
purchase of the shares.
D.An agreement authorized by this section ceases to
be effective when shares of the corporation are listed on a national securities
exchange or are regularly traded in a market maintained by one or more members
of a national or affiliated securities association.If the agreement
ceases to be effective for any reason, the board of directors, if the agreement
is contained or referred to in the corporation's articles of incorporation or
bylaws, may adopt an amendment to the articles of incorporation or bylaws,
without shareholder action, to delete the agreement and any references to it.
E.An agreement that is authorized by this section
and that limits the discretion or powers of the board of directors relieves the
directors of and imposes on the person or persons in whom such discretion or
powers are vested liability for acts or omissions imposed by law on directors
to the extent that the discretion or powers of the directors are limited by the
agreement.
F.The existence or performance of an agreement
authorized by this section is not a ground for imposing personal liability on
any shareholder for the acts or debts of the corporation even if the agreement
or its performance treats the corporation as if it were a partnership or
results in failure to observe the corporate formalities otherwise applicable to
the matters governed by the agreement.
G.Incorporators or subscribers for shares may act
as shareholders with respect to an agreement authorized by this section if no
shares have been issued when the agreement is made.
H.This section does not apply to, limit or
invalidate agreements that are otherwise valid or authorized without regard to
this section, including without limitation shareholder agreements between or
among some or all of the shareholders or agreements between or among the
corporation and one or more shareholders.The procedure set forth in
this section is not the exclusive method of agreement among shareholders or
among shareholders and the corporation with respect to any of the matters
described in this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 10-821, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-821.Action by directors without meeting
A.Unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws
provide otherwise, action required or permitted by chapters 1 through 17 of
this title to be taken at a directors' meeting may be taken without a meeting
if the action is taken by all of the directors.The action must be
evidenced by one or more written
consents describing the action taken,
which, in the aggregate,
must be signed by each director and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate
records reflecting the action taken. The consents and signatures may be in writing or by
electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission
or electronic transmissions must be included in the minutes or filed with the
corporate records. The filing must be in a paper format if the minutes are
maintained in a paper format and must be in an electronic format if the minutes
are maintained in an electronic format.
B.Action taken under this section is effective when
the last director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies a different
effective date.
C.A consent signed under this section has the
effect of a meeting vote and may be described as such in any document.
D.Any director may revoke a consent by delivering a
signed revocation of the consent to the president or secretary before the date
the last director signs the consent or consents. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 10-830, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-830.General standards of conduct for directors
A.A director's duties, including duties as a member
of a committee, shall be discharged:
1.In good faith.
2.With the care an ordinarily prudent person in a
like position would exercise under similar circumstances.
3.In a manner the director reasonably believes to
be in the best interests of the corporation.
B.In discharging duties, a director is entitled to
rely on information, opinions, reports or statements, including financial
statements and other financial data, if prepared or presented by any of the
following:
1.One or more officers or employees of the
corporation whom the director reasonably believes are reliable and competent in
the matters presented.
2.Legal counsel, public accountants or other
persons as to matters the director reasonably believes are within the person's
professional or expert competence.
3.A committee of the board of directors of which
the director is not a member if the director reasonably believes the committee
merits confidence.
C.A director is not acting in good faith if the
director has knowledge concerning the matter in question that makes reliance
otherwise permitted by subsection B of
this section unwarranted.
D.A director
is not liable for any action taken as a director or any failure to take any
action if the director's duties were performed in compliance with this
section.In any proceeding commenced under this section or any other
provision of this chapter, a director has all of the defenses and presumptions
ordinarily available to a director.A director is presumed in all
cases to have acted, failed to act or otherwise discharged such director's
duties in accordance with subsection A.The burden is on the party
challenging a director's action, failure to act or other discharge of duties to
establish by clear and convincing evidence facts rebutting the presumption.
D.Unless
otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation or bylaws or a resolution
of the board of directors of the corporation, in determining what is in the
best interests of the corporation, a director:
1.Must
consider the effect of a proposed action or inaction on the shareholders and
whether a proposed action or inaction may further the purposes of the
corporation.
2.May
consider the effects of any action or inaction on the long-term and short-term
interests of the corporation, its shareholders, employees, customers, community
and environment and any other group and other pertinent factors that the
director deems appropriate.
E.The best
interests of the corporation do not require that any particular interests be
given priority over other interests unless the articles of incorporation, the
bylaws, a resolution of the board of directors or a resolution approved by the
number of shareholders required to amend the articles of incorporation states
an intention to give priority to particular interests. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Title 10, chapter 8, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 10-831, to read:
START_STATUTE10-831.Standards of liability for directors; presumption
A director is not
liable for any action taken as a director or any failure to take any action if
the director's duties were performed in compliance with section
10-830.In any proceeding commenced under this chapter, a director
has all of the defenses and presumptions ordinarily available to a director. A
director is presumed in all cases to have acted, failed to act or otherwise
discharged the director's duties pursuant to section 10-830. The burden is on
the party challenging a director's action, failure to act or other discharge of
duties to establish by clear and convincing evidence facts rebutting the
presumption. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 10-842, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-842.Standards of conduct for officers
A.If an officer has discretionary authority with
respect to any duties, an officer's duties shall be discharged under that
authority:
1.In good faith.
2.With the care an ordinarily prudent person in a
like position would exercise under similar circumstances.
3.In a manner the officer reasonably believes to be
in the best interests of the corporation.
B.In discharging duties, an officer is entitled to
rely on information, opinions, reports or statements, including financial
statements and other financial data, if prepared or presented by either:
1.One or more directors, officers or employees of
the corporation whom the officer reasonably believes to be reliable and
competent in the matters presented.
2.Legal counsel, public accountants or other
persons as to matters the officer reasonably believes are within the person's
professional or expert competence.
C.An officer is not acting in good faith if the
officer has knowledge concerning the matter in question that makes reliance
otherwise permitted by subsection B of
this section unwarranted.
D.An officer
is not liable for any action taken as an officer or any failure to take any
action if the officer's duties were performed in compliance with this
section.In any proceeding commenced under this section or any other
provision of this chapter, an officer has all of the defenses and presumptions
ordinarily available to an officer.An officer is presumed in all
cases to have acted, failed to act or otherwise discharged such officer's
duties in accordance with subsection A.The burden is on the party
challenging an officer's action, failure to act or other discharge of duties to
establish by clear and convincing evidence facts rebutting the presumption.
END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Title 10, chapter 8, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 10-845 and 10-846, to
read:
START_STATUTE10-845.Standards of liability for officers; presumption
An officer is not
liable for any action taken as an officer or any failure to take any action if
the officer's duties were performed in compliance with section
10-842.In any proceeding commenced under this chapter, an officer
has all of the defenses and presumptions ordinarily available to an officer.
An officer is presumed in all cases to have acted, failed to act or otherwise
discharged the officer's duties pursuant to section 10-842. The burden is on
the party challenging an officer's action, failure to act or other discharge of
duties to establish by clear and convincing evidence facts rebutting the presumptions.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE10-846.Enforcement proceedings; liability for monetary damages;
definitions
A.Except as provided in subsection b
of this section, a person may not bring an action or assert a claim against a
corporation or its directors or officers with respect to either of the
following:
1.The
decision or failure of the corporation to pursue or create a nonmonetary
purpose, whether or not the purpose is set forth in its articles of
incorporation.
2.A
director's or officer's violation of an obligation, duty or standard of conduct
to consider, or the failure to consider, the effect of an act, omission or
decision by a corporation on a nonmonetary purpose, whether or not the purpose
is set forth in its articles of incorporation.
B.An
enforcement proceeding against a corporation or its directors or officers with
respect to subsection a of this section may be commenced or maintained only as
follows:
1.Directly by the corporation.
2.Derivatively pursuant to chapter 7,
article 4 of this title by a shareholder of the corporation.
3.By
other persons as specified in the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the
corporation.
C.A
corporation and its directors and officers are not liable for monetary damages
resulting from any decision or failure of the corporation to pursue or create
any nonmonetary purpose, whether or not the purpose is set forth in its
articles of incorporation.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."enforcement proceeding"
means any claim or action for a violation of any obligation, duty or standard
of conduct under this chapter.
2."Nonmonetary
purpose" means any purpose other than to benefit the economic or financial
interests of the shareholders of the corporation, including any purpose to
benefit any interest or factor that is included in section 10-830, subsection
d, paragraph 2, as applicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 10-1407, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1407.Unknown claims against dissolved corporation
A.A dissolved corporation may also publish notice
of its dissolution and request that persons with claims against the corporation
present them in accordance with the notice.
B.The notice shall:
1.Be published one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the dissolved
corporation's known place of business is or was last located.
2.Describe the information that must be included in
a claim and provide a mailing address where the claim may be sent.
3.State that a claim against the corporation will
be barred unless a proceeding to enforce the claim is commenced within five
years after the publication of the notice or before the expiration of any other applicable limitations period,
whichever is earlier.
C.If the dissolved corporation publishes a
newspaper notice in accordance with subsection B of this section, the claim of
each of the following claimants is barred unless the claimant commences a
proceeding to enforce the claim against the dissolved corporation within five
years after the publication date of the newspaper notice or before the expiration of any other applicable limitations
period, whichever is earlier:
1.A claimant who did not receive written notice
under section 101406.
2.A claimant whose claim was timely sent to the
dissolved corporation but not acted on.
3.A claimant whose claim is contingent or based on
an event occurring after the effective date of the dissolution.
D.A claim, including a contingent claim or a claim
based on an event occurring after the effective date of dissolution, may be
enforced under this section either:
1.Against the dissolved corporation to the extent
of its undistributed assets.
2.If the assets have been distributed in
liquidation, against a shareholder of the dissolved corporation to the extent
of his the shareholder's pro rata share of the claim
or the corporate assets distributed to him
the shareholder in
liquidation, whichever is less, but a shareholder's total liability for all
claims under this subsection shall not exceed the total amount of assets
distributed to him the shareholder.
E.This
section does not extend or lengthen any otherwise applicable time period during
which claims may be brought against the corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 10-1503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1503.Application for authority to transact business
A.A foreign corporation may apply for authority to
transact business in this state by delivering an application and a certificate
of disclosure to the commission for filing. The certificate of disclosure
shall contain the information set forth in section 10202, subsection D
and is subject to the requirements of section 10202, subsection
F.The application shall be executed by the corporation and shall
set forth:
1.The name of the foreign corporation and, if its
name is unavailable for use in this state, a corporate name that satisfies the
requirements of section 101506.
2.The name of the state or country under whose law
it is incorporated.
3.Its date of incorporation and period of duration.
4.The street address of its principal office in its
state or country of incorporation or,
if none, the street address of its registered agent in its state or country of
incorporation.
5.The street address of the proposed known place of
business of the corporation in this state and the name and street address of
its proposed statutory agent in this state.
6.If its purpose or purposes are narrower than the
transaction of any or all lawful business in which corporations may engage in
the state or country under whose law it is incorporated, a statement of the
limitations on its purpose.
7.The names and usual business addresses of its
current directors and officers.
8.A statement of the aggregate number of shares
that the corporation has authority to issue, itemized by classes, par value of shares, shares without par value
and series, if any, within a class.
9.A statement of the aggregate number of issued
shares itemized by classes, par value of
shares, shares without par value and series, if any, within a
class.
10.A brief statement of the character of business
that the corporation initially intends actually to conduct in this state. This
statement does not limit the character of business that the corporation
ultimately conducts.
B.The foreign corporation shall deliver the
application and the certificate of disclosure to the commission, together with
a copy of its articles of incorporation, any amendments to the articles of
incorporation and a certificate of existence or a document of similar import
duly authenticated by the secretary of state or other official having custody
of corporate records in the state or country under whose law it is
incorporated, and the nonrefundable fees required by law.
C.After determining that the application sets forth
the information required by this section, does not use as the name of the
corporation in this state a name that is in violation of section 101506
and appears in all other respects to conform to the requirements of this
article, the commission shall file the application.The date of
filing shall be the date on which the corporation is granted authority to
transact business in this state.
D.Within sixty days after the commission approves
the filing, a copy of the application shall be published.An
affidavit evidencing the publication may be filed with the commission.
E.A foreign corporation authorized to transact
business in this state is subject to section 101623. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 10-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1504.Delivery of changes; changes requiring amended authority
A.Whenever the articles of incorporation of a
foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this state are amended
or restated by merger or otherwise, within sixty days after the amendment or
restatement becomes effective, the foreign corporation shall deliver to the
commission a copy of the amendment or restatement duly authenticated by the
secretary of state or other official having custody of corporate records in the
state or country where the foreign corporation is incorporated.
B.In
addition to the requirement prescribed in subsection A of this section, a
foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this state shall obtain new authority from the commission by
complying with section 101503 amend its application for authority by filing with the
commission articles of amendment to application for authority if it changes any of the following occurS:
1.The
foreign corporation changes its actual corporate name or the name
under which it has obtained authority to transact business in this state
pursuant to section 101503, subsection A, paragraph 1.
2.The
foreign corporation changes its period of its duration.
3.The foreign
corporation changes its state or country of its incorporation.
4.A
statement in the application for authority was inaccurate when made.
END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 10-1506, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1506.Corporate name of foreign corporation
A.If the corporate name of a foreign corporation
does not satisfy the requirements of section 10401, to obtain or
maintain a grant of authority to transact business in this state the foreign
corporation:
1.Shall either:
(a)Add the word
"association", "bank", "company",
"corporation" or "incorporated" or an abbreviation of one
of these words to its corporate name for use in this state.
(b)Use a fictitious name that satisfies the
requirements of section 10401 to transact business in this state if its
real name is unavailable and it delivers to the commission for filing a copy of
the resolution of its board of directors, certified by its secretary, adopting
the fictitious name.
2.Shall not include language in its corporate name
stating or implying that the foreign corporation is organized for a purpose
other than that permitted by section 10301 and its articles of
incorporation.
3.Notwithstanding paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of
this subsection, shall not include the words "bank",
"deposit", "credit union", "trust" or "trust
company" separately or in combination in its corporate name to indicate or
convey the idea that the foreign corporation is engaged in banking or trust
business unless the foreign corporation is to be and becomes actively and
substantially engaged in the banking, credit union or trust business or the
foreign corporation is a holding company holding a substantial interest in
companies actively and substantially engaged in the banking or trust business.
B.Except as authorized by subsections C and D of
this section, the corporate name, including a fictitious name, of a foreign
corporation shall be distinguishable from:
1.The corporate name of a corporation incorporated
in this state or a foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this
state.
2.A corporate name reserved under section 10402
or registered under section 10403.
3.The fictitious name adopted by another foreign
corporation under this section.
4.The corporate name of a nonprofit corporation
incorporated under this title or a foreign nonprofit or not for profit
corporation authorized to conduct affairs in this state.
5.The partnership name of a limited partnership
organized and registered under the laws of this state or of a foreign limited
partnership authorized to transact business in this state.
6.The name of a limited liability company organized
under title 29, chapter 4 or a foreign limited liability company authorized to
transact business in this state.
7.A trade name registered pursuant to title 44,
chapter 10, article3.1.
8.The name of a registered limited liability
partnership registered under title 29, chapter 5, article 10 or a foreign
registered limited liability partnership authorized to transact business in
this state.
C.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the
commission shall authorize the use of a name that is not distinguishable under
subsection B of this section from one or more of the names described in
subsection B of this section if the applicant delivers to the commission a
certified copy of a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction
establishing the applicant's right to use the name applied for in this state.
D.If a foreign corporation authorized to transact
business in this state changes its corporate name to one that does not satisfy the
requirements of section 10401, it may not transact business in this
state under the changed name until it adopts a name satisfying the requirements
of section 10401 and obtains new amended authority under
section 101504. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 10-1531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1531.Procedure for and effect of revocation; reinstatement
A.If the commission determines that one or more
grounds exist under section 101530 for revocation of a grant of
authority, the commission shall serve the foreign corporation with written
notice of the determination under section 101510.
B.If the foreign corporation does not correct each
ground for revocation or demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of the
commission that each ground determined by the commission does not exist within
sixty days after service of the notice is perfected under section 101510,
the commission may revoke the foreign corporation's grant of authority by
signing a certificate of revocation that recites the ground or grounds for
revocation and its effective date.The commission shall file the
original of the certificate and serve a copy on the foreign corporation under
section 101510.
C.The authority of a foreign corporation to
transact business in this state ceases on the date shown on the certificate
revoking its grant of authority.
D.The commission's revocation of a foreign
corporation's grant of authority appoints the commission the foreign
corporation's agent for service of process in any proceeding based on a cause
of action that arose during the time the foreign corporation was authorized to
transact business in this state.Service of process on the
commission under this subsection is service on the foreign
corporation.On receipt of process, the commission shall mail a copy
of the process to the secretary of the foreign corporation at its principal
office shown in its most recent annual report or in any subsequent
communication received from the foreign corporation stating the current mailing
address of its principal office, or, if none is on file, in its application for
authority.
E.Revocation of a foreign corporation's grant of
authority does not terminate the authority of the statutory agent of the
foreign corporation.
F.A foreign corporation whose authority was revoked
pursuant to this section may apply to the commission for reinstatement within
six years after the effective date of the revocation.The
application shall state both:
1.The name of the foreign corporation and the
effective date of the foreign corporation's revocation of authority.
2.That the ground or grounds for the revocation
either did not exist or have been eliminated.
G.If the commission determines that the application
contains the information prescribed in subsection F of this section and that
the information is correct, the commission shall do all of the following:
1.Cancel the certificate of revocation.
2.Prepare a certificate of reinstatement that
states the determination and the effective date of the reinstatement.
3.File the original of the certificate of
reinstatement.
4.Serve a copy on the foreign corporation pursuant
to section 101510.
H.Once the reinstatement is effective, the
reinstatement relates back to and takes effect as of the effective date of the
revocation and the foreign corporation shall resume its business as if the
revocation had never occurred.
I.If the corporation has not applied for
reinstatement within six months after the effective date of the dissolution,
the commission shall release the corporation name for use pursuant to chapters
1 through 17 of this title or by a person intending to register the name as a
trade name pursuant to title 44, chapter 10, article 3.1.If another
corporation has adopted the name of the foreign corporation or another person
has adopted the name of the foreign corporation as a trade name, the foreign
corporation shall attach to the application for reinstatement an application
for new amended authority and adopt a fictitious name
for use in this state that satisfies the requirements of sections 101504
and 101506. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Title 10, chapter 16, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 10-1636, to read:
START_STATUTE10-1636.Civil liability for false filings; exceptions
A.Except as
provided in subsection C or D of this section, any person that authorizes or
signs a report, certificate, notice or other document with respect to a
corporation that is delivered for filing with the commission pursuant to this
chapter and that has knowledge at the time of delivery to the commission for
filing that the information contained in that report, certificate, notice or
other document is materially false or misleading is liable to the corporation
and its creditors and shareholders for all damages resulting. The prevailing
party in an action for the liability imposed under this subsection is entitled
to an award for its costs and reasonable attorney fees.
B.An action
for the liability imposed by subsection a of this section must be commenced
within two years after discovery of the false statement or the time a
reasonable person would have discovered it, but not later than six years after
the report, certificate, notice or other document was filed or received by the
commission.
C.This
section does not apply to any filing made by a corporation whose shares are
listed or approved for listing on any stock exchange or national market system
of a national securities association specified in section 44-1843, subsection
A, paragraph 7 or the rules of the corporation commission relating to that
paragraph or whose securities are issued by an entity that is exempt from
section 44-1841 pursuant to section 44-1843, subsection A, paragraph 2 or 3 or
the rules of the corporation commission relating to those paragraphs.
D.Execution
of a consent to serve as a statutory agent does not by itself constitute a
certification of the truth or accuracy of the information contained in a
report, certificate, notice or other document with respect to the corporation
even if the consent is attached to another filing.
E.This
section does not prevent the award of equitable remedies, if appropriate. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 10-1702, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1702.Application to qualified foreign corporations
A foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this
state on January 1, 1996 is subject to chapters 1 through 17 of this title but
is not required to obtain a new certificate of authority to transact business
under chapters 1 through 17 of this title,
except as provided in section 101504. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 10-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2401.Application and effect of chapter
A.This chapter is applicable to all benefit
corporations.
B.The existence of a provision of this chapter does
not of itself create an implication that a contrary or different rule of law is
applicable to a business corporation that is not a benefit corporation. This
chapter does not affect a statute or rule of law that is applicable to a
business corporation that is not a benefit corporation.
C.Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 of this
title are generally applicable to all benefit corporations. The specific
provisions of this chapter control over the general provisions of chapters 1
through 17 of this title.
D.A benefit corporation may be subject
simultaneously to this chapter and chapter 18 or 20 of this title. In that
event, the provisions of this chapter control over chapter 18 or 20.
E.A provision of the articles of incorporation or
bylaws of a benefit corporation may not limit, be inconsistent with or
supersede a provision of this chapter.
F.The
enumeration in this chapter of powers and interests of a benefit corporation
does not imply that the powers and interests do not exist in or may not be
considered by any other type of corporation, and unless provided otherwise in
the articles of incorporation or bylaws or a resolution of the board of
directors, any corporation formed under this title has the powers of a benefit
corporation under this chapter and a director of any corporation formed under
this title may consider any interests that may be considered by a director of a
benefit corporation under this chapter in determining what is in the best
interests of the corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 10-2431, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2431.Standard of conduct for directors
A.In discharging the duties of their respective
positions and in considering the best interests of the benefit corporation, the
board of directors, committees of the board and individual directors of a
benefit corporation:
1.Shall consider the
effects of any action or inaction on:
(a)The shareholders
of the benefit corporation.
(b)The employees and workforce of the benefit
corporation, its subsidiaries and its suppliers.
(c)The interests of customers as beneficiaries of
the general public benefit or specific public benefit purposes of the benefit
corporation.
(d)Community and societal factors, including those
of each community in which offices or facilities of the benefit corporation,
its subsidiaries or its suppliers are located.
(e)The local and global environment.
(f)The short-term and long-term interests of the
benefit corporation, including benefits that may accrue to the benefit
corporation from its longterm plans and the possibility that these
interests may be best served by the continued independence of the benefit
corporation.
(g)The ability of the benefit corporation to
accomplish its general public benefit purpose and any specific public benefit
purpose.
2.May consider the interests referred to in section
102702 and other pertinent factors or the interests of any other group
that they deem appropriate except that they do not have to give priority to the
interests of a particular person or group referred to in this subsection over
the interests of any other person or group unless the benefit corporation has
stated in its articles of incorporation its intention to give priority to
certain interests related to its accomplishment of its general public benefit
purpose or of a specific public benefit purpose identified in its articles.
B.The consideration of interests and factors in the
manner required by subsection A of this section does not constitute a violation
of section 10-830.
c.except as
otherwise provided in this section, the standards of conduct and presumptions
prescribed in chapter 8 of this title apply to directors of benefit
corporations.
C.d.Except as
provided in the articles of incorporation or bylaws and in subsection E of this section, a director
is not personally liable for monetary damages for:
1.Any action
or inaction in the course of performing the duties of a director under
subsection A of this section if the director performed the duties of office in
compliance with section 10-830 and this section.
2.failure
of the benefit corporation to pursue or create general public benefit or a
specific public benefit.
D.e.A director does
not have a duty to a person that is a beneficiary of the general public benefit
purpose or a specific public benefit purpose of a benefit corporation arising
from the status of the person as a beneficiary.
E.Subsection
C of this section does not apply to a director's conflicting interest
transaction, as defined in section 10-860, in which the director has directly
or indirectly benefitted. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 10-2432, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2432.Standard of conduct for officers
A.Each officer of a benefit corporation shall
consider the interests and factors described in section 102431,
subsection A, in the manner provided in that subsection, if both of the
following apply:
1.The officer has discretion to act with respect to
a matter.
2.It reasonably appears to the officer that the
matter may have a material effect on the general public benefit or specific
public benefit identified in the articles of incorporation of the benefit
corporation.
B.The consideration of interests and factors in the
manner described in subsection A of this section does not constitute a
violation of section 10-842.
C.Except as
otherwise provided in this section, the standards of conduct and presumptions
prescribed in chapter 8 of this title apply to officers of benefit
corporations.
C.D.Except as
provided in the articles of incorporation or bylaws, an officer is not
personally liable for monetary damages for either of
the following:
1.An action
or inaction as an officer in the course of performing the duties of an officer
under subsection A of this section if the officer performed the duties of the
position in compliance with section 10842 and this section.
2.failure of
the benefit corporation to pursue or create general public benefit or a
specific public benefit.
D.E.An officer does
not have a duty to a person that is a beneficiary of the general public benefit
purpose or the specific public benefit purpose of a benefit corporation arising
from the status of the person as a beneficiary.
E.F.An officer who
makes a business judgment in good faith fulfills the duty under this section if
all of the following apply:
1.The officer is not interested in the subject of
the business judgment.
2.The officer is informed with respect to the
subject of the business judgment to the extent the officer reasonably believes
to be appropriate under the circumstances.
3.The officer rationally believes that the business
judgment is in the best interests of the benefit corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 10-2702, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2702.Duties of director
In discharging the duties of the position of director under
this chapter, a director of an issuing public corporation, in considering the
best interests of the corporation, shall consider the longterm as well
as the shortterm interests of the corporation and its shareholders
including the possibility that these interests may be best served by the
continued independence of the corporation.This section shall does not modify the duties of the position of
director in any matter outside the scope of this chapter and does not limit the ability of a director to consider
any other factor permitted by section 10-830, subsection D. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section
10-3202, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-3202.Articles of incorporation; violation; classification
A.The articles of incorporation shall set forth:
1.A corporate name for the corporation that
satisfies the requirements of section 103401.
2.A brief statement of the character of affairs
that the corporation initially intends to conduct.This statement
does not limit the affairs that the corporation may conduct.
3.The name and address of each person who is to
serve as a director until a successor is elected and qualifies.
4.The name, street address and signature of the
corporation's statutory agent.
5.The street address of the known place of business
for the corporation, if different from that of its statutory agent.
6.The name and address of each incorporator.
7.Whether or not the corporation will have members.
8.Any provision elected by the incorporators that
under chapters 24 through 40 of this title or any other law of this state may
be elected only by specific inclusion in the articles of incorporation.
9.The signatures of all incorporators.
B.The articles of incorporation may set forth:
1.A provision eliminating or limiting the liability
of a director to the corporation or its members for money damages for any
action taken or any failure to take any action as a director, except liability
for any of the following:
(a)The amount of a financial benefit received by a
director to which the director is not entitled.
(b)An intentional infliction of harm on the
corporation or the members.
(c)A violation of section 103833.
(d)An intentional violation of criminal law.
2.A provision permitting or making obligatory
indemnification of a director for liability, as defined in section 103850,
to any person for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, as a
director, except liability for any of the exceptions described in paragraph 1
of this subsection.
3.Any other provision, not inconsistent with law.
C.The articles of incorporation need not set forth
any of the corporate powers enumerated in chapters 24 through 40 of this title.
D.The certificate of disclosure shall set forth all
of the following:
1.The following information regarding all persons
who at the time of its delivery are officers, directors, trustees and
incorporators:
(a)Whether any of the persons have been convicted
of a felony involving a transaction in securities, consumer fraud or antitrust
in any state or federal jurisdiction within the seven year fiveyear period immediately preceding
the execution of the certificate.
(b)Whether any of the persons have been convicted
of a felony, the essential elements of which consisted of fraud,
misrepresentation, theft by false pretenses or restraint of trade or monopoly
in any state or federal jurisdiction within the seven year fiveyear period immediately preceding
the execution of the certificate.
(c)Whether any of the persons are or have been
subject to an injunction, judgment, decree or permanent order of any state or
federal court entered within the seven
year fiveyear period
immediately preceding the execution of the certificate, if the injunction,
judgment, decree or permanent order involved any of the following:
(i)The violation of fraud or registration
provisions of the securities laws of that jurisdiction.
(ii)The violation of consumer fraud laws of that
jurisdiction.
(iii)The violation of the antitrust or restraint of
trade laws of that jurisdiction.
(d)With regard to any of the persons who have been
convicted of the crimes or who are the subject of the judicial action described
in subdivisions (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph, information regarding:
(i)Identification of the persons, including present
full name, all prior names or aliases, including full birth name, present home
address, all prior addresses for the immediately preceding seven year fiveyear period and date and location
of birth.
(ii)The nature and description of each conviction
or judicial action, the date and location, the court and public agency
involved, and the file or case number of the case.
2.A brief statement disclosing whether any persons
who at the time of its delivery are officers, directors, trustees and
incorporators and who have served in any such capacity in any other corporation
on the bankruptcy or receivership of the other corporation.If so,
for each corporation, the certificate shall include:
(a)The names and addresses of each corporation and
the person or persons involved.
(b)The state in which each corporation:
(i)Was incorporated.
(ii)Transacted business.
(c)The dates of corporate operation.
3.The signatures of all the incorporators.
4.The date of its execution, which shall be not
more than thirty days before its delivery to the commission.
5.A declaration by each signer that the signer
swears to its contents under penalty of law.
E.The certificate of disclosure may set forth the
name and address of any other person whom the incorporator or incorporators
choose to be the subject of those disclosures required under subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section.
F.If within sixty days after delivering the
articles of incorporation and certificate of disclosure to the commission any
person becomes an officer, director or trustee and the person was not the
subject of the disclosures set forth in the certificate of disclosure, the
incorporator or incorporators or, if the organization of the corporation has
been completed as provided in section 103205, the corporation shall
execute and deliver to the commission within the sixty-day period a declaration, sworn to under
penalty of law, setting forth all information required by subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section, regarding the person.If the
incorporator or incorporators or, as applicable, the corporation fails to
comply with this subsection, the commission may administratively dissolve the
corporation pursuant to section 1011421.
G.If any of the persons described in subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section have been convicted of the crimes or are the
subject of the judicial action described in subsection D, paragraph 1 of this
section, the commission may direct detailed interrogatories to the persons
requiring any additional relevant information deemed necessary by the
commission.The interrogatories shall be completely answered within
thirty days after mailing of the interrogatories.With respect to
corporations incorporating or seeking authority to conduct affairs, articles of
incorporation or an application for authority shall not be filed until all
outstanding interrogatories have been answered to the satisfaction of the
commission. With respect to existing domestic and foreign corporations, if the
interrogatories are not answered as provided in this subsection or the answers
to the interrogatories otherwise indicate proper grounds for an administrative
dissolution, the commission shall initiate an administrative dissolution in
accordance with chapters 24 through 40 of this title.
H.On a quarterly updated basis, the commission
shall provide to the attorney general a list of all persons who are convicted
of the crimes or who are the subject of the judicial action described in
subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section as indicated by the certificate of
disclosure filed during the preceding three months.
I.Any person who executed or contributed
information for a certificate of disclosure and who intentionally makes any
untrue statement of material fact or withholds any material fact with regard to
the information required in subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section is guilty
of a class 6 felony. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Title 29, chapter 4, article 12,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 29-858, to read:
START_STATUTE29-858.Civil liability for false filings; exceptions
A.Except as
provided in subsection C or D of this section, any person that authorizes or
signs a report, certificate, notice or other document with respect to a limited
liability company that is delivered for filing with the commission pursuant to
this chapter and that has knowledge at the time of delivery to the commission
for filing that the information contained in that report, certificate, notice
or other document is materially false or misleading is liable to the limited
liability company and its creditors and members for all damages
resulting.The prevailing party in an action for liability imposed
by this subsection is entitled to an award for its costs and reasonable
attorney fees.
B.An action
for the liability imposed by subsection a of this section must be commenced
within two years after discovery of the false statement or the time a
reasonable person would have discovered it, but not later than six years after
the report, certificate, notice or other document was filed or received by the
commission.
C.This
section does not apply to any filing made by a limited liability company whose
membership interests are listed or approved for listing on any stock exchange
or national market system of a national securities association specified in
section 44-1843, subsection A, paragraph 7 or the rules of the corporation commission
relating to that paragraph or whose securities are issued by an entity that is
exempt from section 44-1841 pursuant to section 44-1843, subsection A,
paragraph 2 or 3 or the rules of the corporation commission relating to those
paragraphs.
D.Execution
of a consent to serve as a statutory agent does not by itself constitute a
certification of the truth or accuracy of the information contained in a
report, certificate, notice or other document with respect to the limited
liability company even if the consent is attached to another filing.
E.This
section does not prevent the award of equitable remedies, if appropriate. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Short title
This act shall be known as and may be cited as the
"Arizona business entities competitive omnibus act".

