







REFERENCE TITLE: return-to-work program







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1365









Introduced by
Senators
  Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Hobbs: Begay, Dial, Meza, Miranda, Pancrazi,
  Shooter, Yee





AN ACT

Amending Title
23, chapter 4, Article 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
23-771.02; relating to employment security.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
23, chapter 4, article 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 23-771.02, to read:
START_STATUTE23-771.02.Return-to-work program; program termination
A.The department shall establish a return-to-work
program to provide a structured, supervised training opportunity to individuals
through employers that volunteer to participate in the program and that meet
the requirements that are prescribed in subsection D of this
section.An individual in the program shall be at least eighteen
years of age and shall register with the department.
B.Individuals may participate in the program on
a voluntary basis. An individual who participates in the program shall
participate in the program for at least twenty hours but not more than
thirty-two hours per week for a period of not to exceed six weeks. Individuals
who participate in the program may continue to receive unemployment
compensation benefits pursuant to section 23-771.01, subsection A, paragraph 2.
C.The department shall provide workers'
compensation coverage to individuals who participate in the program, including
coverage for any injury or illness that arises from or in the course of
participation in the program with an employer under the program.
D.An employer that participates in the program
must:
1.Have employees in this state.
2.Have at least one full-time employment
position available in this state.
3.Provide training opportunities that benefit an
individual who participates in the program and notify the department when the
employer offers an individual a training opportunity under the program.
4.Certify to the department that the employer
will not pay any wages to an individual who participates in the program during
the individual's participation in the program.
5.Sign a written agreement with each individual
who participates in the program that sets forth the terms of the training.
6.Agree that the employer's current employees
will not be displaced or lose any promotion rights due to an individual's
participation in the program.
7.Provide any additional information that
relates to the job training that the department requests.
E.An individual who participates in the program
must:
1.Be currently receiving or be eligible to receive
unemployment compensation benefits, pursuant to section 23-771.01, subsection
A, paragraph2.
2.Be willing to develop new skills or work
experience.
3.Continue to seek work unless otherwise exempt,
pursuant to section 23-771.01, subsection A, paragraph 2.
4.Certify to the department that the individual
understands that participating in the program does not guarantee the individual
any future employment or expectations of being hired by the employer.
5.Attend a mandatory program orientation that
the department conducts.
6.Provide any information that the department
requests.
F.The department may not spend monies on the
program that is established by this section unless authorized by a legislative
appropriation.
G.The program that is established by this
section ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 41-3102. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Department of economic security;
exemption from rulemaking
The department of economic security
is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona
Revised Statutes, for the purposes of implementing this act.

