







REFERENCE TITLE: charter schools; audit requirements







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1395









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Dalessandro, Hobbs; Representative Andrade: Senators Cajero Bedford,
  Pancrazi





AN ACT

amending sections
15183, 15213, 15914, 15914.02 and 411279.03,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to charter schools.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-183.Charter schools; application; requirements; immunity;
exemptions; renewal of application; reprisal; fee; funds; annual reports
A.An applicant seeking to establish a charter
school shall submit a written application to a proposed sponsor as prescribed
in subsection C of this section.The application, application
process and application time frames shall be posted on the sponsor's website
and shall include the following, as specified in the application adopted by the
sponsor:
1.A detailed educational plan.
2.A detailed business plan.
3.A detailed operational plan.
4.Any other materials required by the sponsor.
B.The sponsor of a charter school may contract with
a public body, private person or private organization for the purpose of
establishing a charter school pursuant to this article.
C.The sponsor of a charter school may be either a
school district governing board, the state board of education, the state board
for charter schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board
of regents, a community college district with enrollment of more than fifteen
thousand fulltime equivalent students or a group of community college
districts with a combined enrollment of more than fifteen thousand fulltime
equivalent students, subject to the following requirements:
1.For charter schools that submit an application
for sponsorship to a school district governing board:
(a)An applicant for a charter school may submit its
application to a school district governing board, which shall either accept or
reject sponsorship of the charter school within ninety days.An
applicant may submit a revised application for reconsideration by the governing
board. If the governing board rejects the application, the governing board
shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the rejection. The
applicant may request, and the governing board may provide, technical assistance
to improve the application.
(b)In the first year that a school district is
determined to be out of compliance with the uniform system of financial
records, within fifteen days of the determination of noncompliance, the school
district shall notify by certified mail each charter school sponsored by the
school district that the school district is out of compliance with the uniform
system of financial records.The notification shall include a
statement that if the school district is determined to be out of compliance for
a second consecutive year, the charter school will be required to transfer
sponsorship to another entity pursuant to subdivision (c) of this paragraph.
(c)In the second consecutive year that a school
district is determined to be out of compliance with the uniform system of
financial records, within fifteen days of the determination of noncompliance,
the school district shall notify by certified mail each charter school
sponsored by the school district that the school district is out of compliance
with the uniform system of financial records.A charter school that
receives a notification of school district noncompliance pursuant to this
subdivision shall file a written sponsorship transfer application within fortyfive
days with the state board of education, the state board for charter schools or
the school district governing board if the charter school is located within the
geographic boundaries of that school district.A charter school that
receives a notification of school district noncompliance may request an
extension of time to file a sponsorship transfer application, and the state
board of education, the state board for charter schools or a school district
governing board may grant an extension of not more than an additional thirty days
if good cause exists for the extension. The state board of education and the
state board for charter schools shall approve a sponsorship transfer
application pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)A school district governing board shall not
grant a charter to a charter school that is located outside the geographic
boundaries of that school district.
(e)A school district that has been determined to be
out of compliance with the uniform system of financial records during either of
the previous two fiscal years shall not sponsor a new or transferring charter
school.
(f)Notwithstanding any other law, a school district
governing board shall not grant a charter to a new charter school that begins
initial operations after June 30, 2013 or convert an existing district public
school to a charter school that begins initial operations after June 30, 2013.
2.The applicant may submit the application to the
state board of education or the state board for charter
schools.Notwithstanding any other law, neither the state board for
charter schools nor the state board of education shall grant a charter to a
school district governing board for a new charter school that begins initial
operations after June 30, 2013 or for the conversion of an existing district
public school to a charter school that begins initial operations after June 30,
2013. The state board of education or the state board for charter schools may
approve the application if the application meets the requirements of this
article and may approve the charter if the proposed sponsor determines, within
its sole discretion, that the applicant is sufficiently qualified to operate a
charter school and that the applicant is applying to operate as a separate
charter holder by considering factors such as whether:
(a)The schools have separate governing bodies,
governing body membership, staff, facilities and student population.
(b)Daily operations are carried out by different
administrators.
(c)The applicant intends to have an affiliation
agreement for the purpose of providing enrollment preferences.
(d)The applicant's charter management organization
has multiple charter holders serving varied grade configurations on one
physical site or nearby sites serving one community.
(e)It is reconstituting an existing school site
population at the same or new site.
(f)It is reconstituting an existing grade
configuration from a prior charter holder with at least one grade remaining on
the original site with the other grade or grades moving to a new site. The
state board of education or the state board for charter schools may approve any
charter schools transferring charters.The state board of education
and the state board for charter schools shall approve any charter schools
transferring charters from a school district that is determined to be out of
compliance with the uniform system of financial records pursuant to this
section, but may require the charter school to sign a new charter that is
equivalent to the charter awarded by the former sponsor.If the
state board of education or the state board for charter schools rejects the
preliminary application, the state board of education or the state board for
charter schools shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the
rejection and of suggestions for improving the application. An applicant may
submit a revised application for reconsideration by the state board of
education or the state board for charter schools. The applicant may request,
and the state board of education or the state board for charter schools may
provide, technical assistance to improve the application.
3.The applicant may submit the application to a
university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, a community
college district or a group of community college districts. A university, a
community college district or a group of community college districts shall not
grant a charter to a school district governing board for a new charter school
that begins initial operations after June 30, 2013 or for the conversion of an existing
district public school to a charter school that begins initial operations after
June 30, 2013. A university, a community college district or a group of
community college districts may approve the application if it meets the
requirements of this article and if the proposed sponsor determines, in its
sole discretion, that the applicant is sufficiently qualified to operate a
charter school.
4.Each applicant seeking to establish a charter
school shall submit a full set of fingerprints to the approving agency for the
purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to
section 411750 and Public Law 92544.If an applicant
will have direct contact with students, the applicant shall possess a valid
fingerprint clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12,
article 3.1.The department of public safety may exchange this
fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.The
criminal records check shall be completed before the issuance of a charter.
5.All persons engaged in instructional work
directly as a classroom, laboratory or other teacher or indirectly as a
supervisory teacher, speech therapist or principal shall have a valid
fingerprint clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12,
article 3.1, unless the person is a volunteer or guest speaker who is
accompanied in the classroom by a person with a valid fingerprint clearance
card. A charter school shall not employ a teacher whose certificate has been
surrendered or revoked, unless the teacher's certificate has been subsequently
reinstated by the state board of education.All other personnel
shall be fingerprint checked pursuant to section 15512, or the charter
school may require those personnel to obtain a fingerprint clearance card
issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article3.1. Before employment,
the charter school shall make documented, good faith efforts to contact
previous employers of a person to obtain information and recommendations that
may be relevant to a person's fitness for employment as prescribed in section
15512, subsection F.The charter school shall notify the
department of public safety if the charter school or sponsor receives credible
evidence that a person who possesses a valid fingerprint clearance card is
arrested for or is charged with an offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B.Charter schools may hire personnel that have not yet
received a fingerprint clearance card if proof is provided of the submission of
an application to the department of public safety for a fingerprint clearance
card and if the charter school that is seeking to hire the applicant does all
of the following:
(a)Documents in the applicant's file the necessity
for hiring and placement of the applicant before receiving a fingerprint
clearance card.
(b)Ensures that the department of public safety
completes a statewide criminal records check on the applicant. A statewide
criminal records check shall be completed by the department of public safety
every one hundred twenty days until the date that the fingerprint check is
completed or the fingerprint clearance card is issued or denied.
(c)Obtains references from the applicant's current
employer and the two most recent previous employers except for applicants who
have been employed for at least five years by the applicant's most recent
employer.
(d)Provides general supervision of the applicant
until the date that the fingerprint card is obtained.
(e)Completes a search of criminal records in all
local jurisdictions outside of this state in which the applicant has lived in
the previous five years.
(f)Verifies the fingerprint status of the applicant
with the department of public safety.
6.A charter school that complies with the
fingerprinting requirements of this section shall be deemed to have complied
with section 15512 and is entitled to the same rights and protections
provided to school districts by section 15512.
7.If a charter school operator is not already
subject to a public meeting or hearing by the municipality in which the charter
school is located, the operator of a charter school shall conduct a public
meeting at least thirty days before the charter school operator opens a site or
sites for the charter school. The charter school operator shall post notices
of the public meeting in at least three different locations that are within
three hundred feet of the proposed charter school site.
8.A person who is employed by a charter school or
who is an applicant for employment with a charter school, who is arrested for
or charged with a nonappealable offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B and who does not immediately report the arrest or charge to the
person's supervisor or potential employer is guilty of unprofessional conduct
and the person shall be immediately dismissed from employment with the charter
school or immediately excluded from potential employment with the charter
school.
9.A person who is employed by a charter school and
who is convicted of any nonappealable offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B or is convicted of any nonappealable offense that amounts to
unprofessional conduct under section 15550 shall immediately do all of
the following:
(a)Surrender any certificates issued by the
department of education.
(b)Notify the person's employer or potential
employer of the conviction.
(c)Notify the department of public safety of the
conviction.
(d)Surrender the person's fingerprint clearance
card.
D.An entity that is authorized to sponsor charter
schools pursuant to this article has no legal authority over or responsibility
for a charter school sponsored by a different entity. This subsection does not
apply to the state board of education's duty to exercise general supervision
over the public school system pursuant to section 15203, subsection A,
paragraph 1.
E.The charter of a charter school shall do all of
the following:
1.Ensure compliance with federal, state and local
rules, regulations and statutes relating to health, safety, civil rights and
insurance.The department of education shall publish a list of
relevant rules, regulations and statutes to notify charter schools of their
responsibilities under this paragraph.
2.Ensure that it is nonsectarian in its programs,
admission policies and employment practices and all other operations.
3.Ensure that it provides a comprehensive program
of instruction for at least a kindergarten program or any grade between grades
one and twelve, except that a school may offer this curriculum with an emphasis
on a specific learning philosophy or style or certain subject areas such as
mathematics, science, fine arts, performance arts or foreign language.
4.Ensure that it designs a method to measure pupil
progress toward the pupil outcomes adopted by the state board of education
pursuant to section 15741.01, including participation in the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test and the nationally standardized normreferenced
achievement test as designated by the state board and the completion and
distribution of an annual report card as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of
this title.
5.Ensure that, except as provided in this article
and in its charter, it is exempt from all statutes and rules relating to
schools, governing boards and school districts.
6.Ensure that, except as provided in this article,
it is subject to the same financial and electronic data submission requirements
as a school district, including the uniform system of financial records as
prescribed in chapter 2, article 4 of this title, procurement rules as
prescribed in section 15213 and audit requirements. The auditor general
shall conduct a comprehensive review and revision of the uniform system of
financial records to ensure that the provisions of the uniform system of
financial records that relate to charter schools are in accordance with
commonly accepted accounting principles used by private business.A school's charter may include exceptions to
the requirements of this paragraph that are necessary as determined by the
district governing board, the university, the community college district, the
group of community college districts, the state board of education or the state
board for charter schools.The department of education
or the office of the auditor general may conduct financial, program or
compliance audits.
7.Ensure compliance with all federal and state laws
relating to the education of children with disabilities in the same manner as a
school district.
8.Ensure that it provides for a governing body for
the charter school that is responsible for the policy decisions of the charter
school. Notwithstanding section 1216, if there is a vacancy or
vacancies on the governing body, a majority of the remaining members of the
governing body constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, unless that
quorum is prohibited by the charter school's operating agreement.
9.Ensure that it provides a minimum of one hundred
eighty instructional days before June 30 of each fiscal year unless it is
operating on an alternative calendar approved by its sponsor.The
superintendent of public instruction shall adjust the apportionment schedule
accordingly to accommodate a charter school utilizing an alternative calendar.
F.A charter school shall keep on file the resumes
of all current and former employees who provide instruction to pupils at the
charter school. Resumes shall include an individual's educational and teaching
background and experience in a particular academic content subject area. A
charter school shall inform parents and guardians of the availability of the
resume information and shall make the resume information available for
inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled at the
charter school. This subsection does not require any charter school to release
personally identifiable information in relation to any teacher or employee,
including the teacher's or employee's address, salary, social security number
or telephone number.
G.The charter of a charter school may be amended at
the request of the governing body of the charter school and on the approval of
the sponsor.
H.Charter schools may contract, sue and be sued.
I.The charter is effective for fifteen years from
the first day of the fiscal year as specified in the charter, subject to the
following:
1.At least eighteen months before the expiration of
the charter, the sponsor shall notify the charter school that the charter
school may apply for renewal and shall make the renewal application available
to the charter school.A charter school that elects to apply for
renewal shall file a complete renewal application at least fifteen months
before the expiration of the charter. A sponsor shall give written notice of
its intent not to renew the charter school's request for renewal to the charter
school at least twelve months before the expiration of the charter. The
sponsor shall make data used in making renewal decisions available to the
school and the public and shall provide a public report summarizing the
evidence basis for each decision. The sponsor may deny the request for renewal
if, in its judgment, the charter holder has failed to do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Complete the obligations of the contract.
(d)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
2.A charter operator may apply for early
renewal.At least nine months before the charter school's intended
renewal consideration, the operator of the charter school shall submit a letter
of intent to the sponsor to apply for early renewal.The sponsor
shall review fiscal audits and academic performance data for the charter school
that are annually collected by the sponsor, review the current contract between
the sponsor and the charter school and provide the qualifying charter school
with a renewal application. On submission of a complete application, the
sponsor shall give written notice of its consideration of the renewal
application. The sponsor may deny the request for early renewal if, in the
sponsor's judgment, the charter holder has failed to do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Complete the obligations of the contract.
(d)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
3.A sponsor shall review a charter at fiveyear
intervals using a performance framework adopted by the sponsor and may revoke a
charter at any time if the charter school breaches one or more provisions of
its charter or if the sponsor determines that the charter holder has failed to
do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
4.In determining whether to renew or revoke a
charter holder, the sponsor must consider making sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the sponsor's performance
framework as one of the most important factors.
5.At least sixty days before the effective date of
the proposed revocation, the sponsor shall give written notice to the operator
of the charter school of its intent to revoke the charter.Notice of
the sponsor's intent to revoke the charter shall be delivered personally to the
operator of the charter school or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the charter school.The notice shall
incorporate a statement of reasons for the proposed revocation of the
charter.The sponsor shall allow the charter school at least sixty
days to correct the problems associated with the reasons for the proposed
revocation of the charter.The final determination of whether to
revoke the charter shall be made at a public hearing called for such purpose.
J.The charter may be renewed for successive periods
of twenty years.
K.A charter school that is sponsored by the state
board of education, the state board for charter schools, a university, a
community college district or a group of community college districts may not be
located on the property of a school district unless the district governing
board grants this authority.
L.A governing board or a school district employee
who has control over personnel actions shall not take unlawful reprisal against
another employee of the school district because the employee is directly or
indirectly involved in an application to establish a charter
school.A governing board or a school district employee shall not
take unlawful reprisal against an educational program of the school or the
school district because an application to establish a charter school proposes
the conversion of all or a portion of the educational program to a charter
school. For the purposes of this subsection, "unlawful reprisal"
means an action that is taken by a governing board or a school district
employee as a direct result of a lawful application to establish a charter
school and that is adverse to another employee or an education program and:
1.With respect to a school district employee,
results in one or more of the following:
(a)Disciplinary or corrective action.
(b)Detail, transfer or reassignment.
(c)Suspension, demotion or dismissal.
(d)An unfavorable performance evaluation.
(e)A reduction in pay, benefits or awards.
(f)Elimination of the employee's position without a
reduction in force by reason of lack of monies or work.
(g)Other significant changes in duties or
responsibilities that are inconsistent with the employee's salary or employment
classification.
2.With respect to an educational program, results
in one or more of the following:
(a)Suspension or termination of the program.
(b)Transfer or reassignment of the program to a
less favorable department.
(c)Relocation of the program to a less favorable
site within the school or school district.
(d)Significant reduction or termination of funding
for the program.
M.Charter schools shall secure insurance for
liability and property loss. The governing body of a charter school that is
sponsored by the state board of education or the state board for charter
schools may enter into an intergovernmental agreement or otherwise contract to
participate in an insurance program offered by a risk retention pool
established pursuant to section 11952.01 or 41621.01 or the
charter school may secure its own insurance coverage.The pool may
charge the requesting charter school reasonable fees for any services it
performs in connection with the insurance program.
N.Charter schools do not have the authority to
acquire property by eminent domain.
O.A sponsor, including members, officers and
employees of the sponsor, is immune from personal liability for all acts done
and actions taken in good faith within the scope of its authority.
P.Charter school sponsors and this state are not
liable for the debts or financial obligations of a charter school or persons
who operate charter schools.
Q.The sponsor of a charter school shall establish
procedures to conduct administrative hearings on determination by the sponsor
that grounds exist to revoke a charter. Procedures for administrative hearings
shall be similar to procedures prescribed for adjudicative proceedings in title
41, chapter 6, article 10. Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, final decisions of the state board of education and the state
board for charter schools from hearings conducted pursuant to this subsection
are subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
R.The sponsoring entity of a charter school shall
have oversight and administrative responsibility for the charter schools that
it sponsors.In implementing its oversight and administrative
responsibilities, the sponsor shall ground its actions in evidence of the
charter holder's performance in accordance with the performance framework
adopted by the sponsor.The performance framework shall be publicly
available, shall be placed on the sponsoring entity's website and shall
include:
1.The academic performance expectations of the
charter school and the measurement of sufficient progress toward the academic
performance expectations.
2.The operational expectations of the charter
school, including adherence to all applicable laws and obligations of the
charter contract.
3.Intervention and improvement policies.
S.Charter schools may pledge, assign or encumber
their assets to be used as collateral for loans or extensions of credit.
T.All property accumulated by a charter school
shall remain the property of the charter school.
U.Charter schools may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the
agricultural land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of
section 3365. If the owner agrees in writing to comply with the buffer
zone requirements and records the agreement in the office of the county
recorder as a restrictive covenant running with the title to the land, the
charter school may locate a school within the affected buffer zone. The
agreement may include any stipulations regarding the charter school, including
conditions for future expansion of the school and changes in the operational
status of the school that will result in a breach of the agreement.
V.A transfer of a charter to another sponsor, a
transfer of a charter school site to another sponsor or a transfer of a charter
school site to a different charter shall be completed before the beginning of
the fiscal year that the transfer is scheduled to become effective. An entity
that sponsors charter schools may accept a transferring school after the
beginning of the fiscal year if the transfer is approved by the superintendent
of public instruction.The superintendent of public instruction
shall have the discretion to consider each transfer during the fiscal year on a
case by case basis.If a charter school is sponsored by a school
district that is determined to be out of compliance with this title, the
uniform system of financial records or any other state or federal law, the
charter school may transfer to another sponsoring entity at any time during the
fiscal year. A charter holder seeking to transfer sponsors shall comply with
the current charter terms regarding assignment of the charter.A
charter holder transferring sponsors shall notify the current sponsor that the
transfer has been approved by the new sponsor.
W.Notwithstanding subsection V of this section, a
charter holder on an improvement plan must notify parents or guardians of
registered students of the intent to transfer the charter and the timing of the
proposed transfer.On the approved transfer, the new sponsor shall
enforce the improvement plan but may modify the plan based on performance.
X.Notwithstanding subsection Y of this section, the
state board for charter schools shall charge a processing fee to any charter
school that amends its contract to participate in Arizona online instruction
pursuant to section 15808. The charter Arizona online instruction
processing fund is established consisting of fees collected and administered by
the state board for charter schools. The state board for charter schools shall
use monies in the fund only for the processing of contract amendments for
charter schools participating in Arizona online instruction.Monies
in the fund are continuously appropriated.
Y.The sponsoring entity may not charge any fees to
a charter school that it sponsors unless the sponsor has provided services to
the charter school and the fees represent the full value of those services
provided by the sponsor. On request, the value of the services provided by the
sponsor to the charter school shall be demonstrated to the department of
education.
Z.Charter schools may enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with a presiding judge of the juvenile court to
implement a law related education program as defined in section 15154.
The presiding judge of the juvenile court may assign juvenile probation
officers to participate in a law related education program in any charter
school in the county. The cost of juvenile probation officers who participate
in the program implemented pursuant to this subsection shall be funded by the
charter school.
AA.The sponsor of a charter school shall modify
previously approved curriculum requirements for a charter school that wishes to
participate in the board examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6
of this title.
BB.If a charter school decides not to participate
in the board examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6 of this
title, pupils enrolled at that charter school may earn a Grand Canyon diploma
by obtaining a passing score on the same board examinations.
CC.Notwithstanding subsection Y of this section, a
sponsor of charter schools may charge a new charter application processing fee
to any applicant. The application fee shall fully cover the cost of application
review and any needed technical assistance. Authorizers may approve policies
that allow a portion of the fee to be returned to the applicant whose charter is
approved.
DD.A charter school may choose to provide a
preschool program for children with disabilities pursuant to section 15771.
EE.Pursuant to the prescribed graduation
requirements adopted by the state board of education, the governing body of a charter
school operating a high school may approve a rigorous computer science course
that would fulfill a mathematics course required for graduation from high
school. The governing body may approve a rigorous computer science course only
if the rigorous computer science course includes significant mathematics
content and the governing body determines the high school where the rigorous
computer science course is offered has sufficient capacity, infrastructure and
qualified staff, including competent teachers of computer science.
FF.A charter school may permit the use of school
property, including school buildings, grounds, buses and equipment, by any
person, group or organization for any lawful purpose, including a recreational,
educational, political, economic, artistic, moral, scientific, social,
religious or other civic or governmental purpose.The charter school
may charge a reasonable fee for the use of the school property.
GG.A charter school and its employees, including
the governing body, or chief administrative officer, are immune from civil
liability with respect to all decisions made and actions taken to allow the use
of school property, unless the charter school or its employees are guilty of
gross negligence or intentional misconduct.This subsection does not
limit any other immunity provisions that are prescribed by law.
HH.Sponsors authorized pursuant to this section
shall submit an annual report to the auditor general on or before October 1 of each year. The report shall
include:
1.The current number of charters authorized and the
number of schools operated by authorized charter holders.
2.The academic andoperational performance of
the sponsor's charter portfolio as measured by the sponsor's adopted
performance framework.
3.for the
prior year, the number of new charters approved and, the
number of charter schools closed and the
reason for the closure in
the prior year.
4.The sponsor's application, amendment, renewal and
revocation processes, charter contract template and current performance
framework as required by this section.
II.The auditor general shall prescribe the format
for the annual report required by subsection HH of this section and may require
that the annual report be submitted electronically. The auditor general shall
review the submitted annual reports to ensure that the reports include the
required items in subsection HH of this section and shall make the annual
reports available upon request.If the auditor general finds
significant noncompliance or a sponsor's
failure if a sponsor
fails to submit the annual report required by subsection HH of
this section, on or before December 31 of each year the auditor general shall
report to the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives and the chairs of the senate and house education committees
or their successor committees, and the legislature shall consider revoking the
sponsor's authority to sponsor charter schools. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
15-213, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-213.Procurement practices of school districts and charter
schools; definitions
A.The state board of education shall adopt rules
prescribing procurement practices for all school districts in this state as
follows:
1.The state board shall submit to the auditor
general proposed rules consistent with the procurement practices prescribed in
title 41, chapter 23, modifying the provisions for public notice of invitation
for bids, requests for proposals and requests for qualifications to allow a
governing board to give public notice of the invitation for bids, requests for
proposals and requests for qualifications by publication in the official
newspaper of the county as defined
prescribed in section 11255,
modifying the provisions relating to disposal of materials to comply with
section 15342, paragraph 18, providing for governing board delegation of
procurement authority and modifying as necessary other provisions that the
state board determines are not appropriate for school districts.The
rules shall include provisions specifying that school districts are not
required to engage in competitive bidding in order to make the decision to
participate in programs pursuant to section 15382 and that a program
authorized by section 15382 is not required to engage in competitive
bidding for the services necessary to administer the program or for purchase of
insurance or reinsurance.The rules shall include provisions
specifying that school districts are not required to engage in competitive
bidding in order to place a pupil in a private school that provides special
education services if such placement is prescribed in the pupil's individualized
education program and the private school has been approved by the department of
education division of special education pursuant to section 15765,
subsection D.This placement is not subject to rules adopted by the
state board of education before November 24, 2009 pursuant to this section.
The rules for procurement of construction projects shall include provisions
specifying that surety bonds furnished as bid security and performance and
payment bonds shall be executed and furnished as required by title 34, chapter
2 or 6, as applicable. The rules shall specify the total cost of a procurement
that is subject to invitations for bids, requests for proposals and requests
for clarification, using the aggregate dollar amount limits for procurements prescribed
in section 412535.
2.The state board of education shall adopt rules
for procurements involving construction not exceeding one hundred fifty
thousand dollars, which shall be known as the simplified school construction
procurement program. At a minimum, the rules for a simplified construction
procurement program shall require that:
(a)A list be maintained by each county school
superintendent of persons who desire to receive solicitations to bid on
construction projects to which additions shall be permitted throughout the
year.
(b)The list of persons be available for public
inspection.
(c)A performance bond and a payment bond as
required by this section be provided for contracts for construction by
contractors.
(d)All bids for construction be opened at a public
opening and the bids shall remain confidential until the public opening.
(e)All persons desiring to submit bids be treated
equitably and the information related to each project be available to all
eligible persons.
(f)Competition for construction projects under the
simplified school construction procurement program be encouraged to the maximum
extent possible. At a minimum, a school district shall submit information on
each project to all persons listed with the county school superintendent by any
school district within that county.
(g)A provision, covenant, clause or understanding
in, collateral to or affecting a construction contract that makes the contract
subject to the laws of another state or that requires any litigation, arbitration
or other dispute resolution proceeding arising from the contract to be
conducted in another state is against this state's public policy and is void
and unenforceable.
3.The state board of education shall adopt rules
for the procurement of goods and information services by school districts and
charter schools using electronic, online bidding. The rules adopted by the
state board shall include the use of reverse auctions and shall be consistent
with the procurement practices prescribed in title 41, chapter 23, article 13,
modifying as necessary those provisions and the rules adopted pursuant to that
article that the state board determines are not appropriate for school
districts and charter schools. Until the rules are adopted, school districts and
charter schools may procure goods and information services pursuant to title
41, chapter 23, article 13 using the rules adopted by the department of
administration in implementing that article.
4.The auditor general shall review the proposed
rules to determine whether the rules are consistent with the procurement
practices prescribed in title 41, chapter 23 and any modifications are required
to adapt the procedures for school districts.
5.If the auditor general approves the proposed
rules, the auditor general shall notify the state board in writing and the
state board shall adopt such rules.
6.If the auditor general objects to the proposed
rules, the auditor general shall notify the state board of the objections in
writing and the state board, in adopting the rules, shall conform the proposed
rules to meet the objections of the auditor general or revise the proposed
rules to which an objection has been made and submit the revisions to the
auditor general for approval.
B.After the bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids are opened and the award is made or after the proposals or
qualifications are submitted in response to a request for proposals or a
request for qualifications and the award is made, the governing board shall
make available for public inspection all information, all bids, proposals and
qualifications submitted and all findings and other information considered in
determining whose bid conforms to the invitation for bids and will be the most
advantageous with respect to price, conformity to the specifications and other
factors or whose proposal or qualifications are to be selected for the
award.The invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
qualifications shall include a notice that all information and bids, proposals
and qualifications submitted will be made available for public inspection. The
rules adopted by the state board shall prohibit the use in connection with
procurement of specifications in any way proprietary to one supplier unless the
specification includes all of the following:
1.A statement of the reasons why no other
specification is practicable.
2.A description of the essential characteristics of
the specified product.
3.A statement specifically permitting an acceptable
alternative product to be supplied.
C.No project or purchase may be divided or
sequenced into separate projects or purchases in order to avoid the limits
prescribed by the state board under subsection A of this section.
D.A contract for the procurement of construction or
construction services shall include a provision that provides for negotiations
between the school district and the contractor for the recovery of damages
related to expenses incurred by the contractor for a delay for which the school
district is responsible, that is unreasonable under the circumstances and that
was not within the contemplation of the parties to the contract. This
subsection shall not be construed to void any provision in the contract that
requires notice of delays, provides for arbitration or any other procedure for
settlement or provides for liquidated damages.
E.The auditor general may conduct discretionary
reviews, investigations and audits of the financial and operational procurement
activities of school districts, nonexempt
charter schools and school purchasing cooperatives. The auditor general has
final review and approval authority over all school district, nonexempt charter school and school purchasing
cooperative audit contracts and any audit reports issued in accordance with this
section.
F.In addition to the requirements of sections 15914
and 15914.01, school districts, nonexempt
charter schools and school purchasing cooperatives, in connection with any
audit conducted by a certified public accountant, shall contract for a
systematic review of purchasing practices using methodology consistent with
sampling guidelines established by the auditor general.The auditor
general shall consider cost when establishing guidelines pursuant to this
subsection and to the extent possible shall attempt to minimize the cost of the
review. The purpose of the review is to determine whether the school district,
nonexempt charter school or
school purchasing cooperative is in compliance with the procurement laws and
applicable procurement rules of this state. A copy of the review shall be
submitted on completion to the auditor general.The auditor general
may conduct discretionary reviews of school districts, nonexempt charter schools and school
purchasing cooperatives that are not
required to contract for independent audits.
G.The attorney general or county attorney has
jurisdiction to enforce this section. The attorney general or county attorney
may seek relief for any violation of this section through an appropriate civil
or criminal action in superior court, including an action to enjoin a
threatened or pending violation of this section and including an action to
enforce compliance with any request for documents made by the auditor general
pursuant to this section.
H.The department of education shall enact policies
and procedures for the acceptance and disposition of complaints from the public
regarding school procurement practices and shall forward all school procurement
complaints to the attorney general.Notwithstanding rules adopted by
the state board, school districts shall not be required to prepare or submit an
annual report on the benefits associated with the use of constructionmanageratrisk,
designbuild, qualified select bidders list and jobordercontracting
methods.
I.The state board of education shall adopt, and the
auditor general shall review, rules authorizing school districts to procure
construction services by constructionmanageratrisk, designbuild,
qualified select bidders list and jobordercontracting methods of
project delivery.The rules shall not require school districts to
obtain bid security for the constructionmanageratrisk
method of project delivery.
J.A school district or charter school may evaluate
United States general services administration contracts for materials and
services. The governing board or governing body may authorize purchases under
a current contract for materials or services without complying with the
requirements of the procurement rules adopted by the state board of education
if the governing board or governing body determines in writing that all of the
following apply:
1.The price for materials or services is equal to
or less than the contractor's current federal supply contract price with the
general services administration.
2.The contractor has indicated in writing that the
contractor is willing to extend the current federal supply contract pricing,
terms and conditions to the school district or charter school.
3.The purchase order adequately identifies the
federal supply contract on which the order is based.
4.The purchase contract is cost effective and is in
the best interests of the school district or charter school.
K.Unless otherwise provided by law, multiterm
contracts for materials or services and contracts for job-order-contracting
construction services may be entered into if the duration of the contract and
the conditions of renewal or extension, if any, are included in the invitation
for bids or the request for proposals and if monies are available for the first
fiscal period at the time the contract is executed.The duration of
contracts for materials or services and contracts for jobordercontracting
construction services shall be limited to no more than five years unless the
governing board determines in writing before the procurement solicitation is
issued that a contract of longer duration would be advantageous to the school
district. Payment and performance obligations for succeeding fiscal periods
are subject to the availability and appropriation of monies.
L.Notwithstanding the rules adopted by the
stateboard of education, the maximum dollar amount of an
individual job order for jobordercontracting construction
services shall be one million dollars or a higher or lower amount prescribed by
the governing board in a policy adopted in a public meeting held pursuant to
title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1. Requirements shall not be artificially
divided or fragmented in order to constitute a job order that satisfies the
requirements of this subsection.
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Nonexempt
charter school" means a charter school that is not exempted from
procurement laws pursuant to section 15183, subsection E, paragraph 6.
2.1."School
purchasing cooperative" means an entity engaged in cooperative purchasing
as defined in section 412631.
3.2."Total
cost" means the cost of all materials and services, including the cost of
labor performed by employees of the school district, for all construction as
provided in subsection A of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec. 3.Section 15-914,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-914.Financial and compliance audits;
additional audit requirements for charter schools
A.The governing board
of a school district that is required to comply with the single audit act
amendments of 1996 (P.L.104156; 110 Stat. 1396; 31 United States
Code sections 7501 through 7507) shall contract for at least annual financial
and compliance audits of financial transactions and accounts subject to the
single audit act amendments of 1996 and kept by or for the school
district.The governing board of a school district that is not
required to comply with the single audit act and that has adopted an
expenditure budget of two million dollars or more for the maintenance and
operation fund pursuant to section 15905 shall contract for an annual
financial statement audit. The governing board of a school district that is
not required to comply with the single audit act and that has adopted an
expenditure budget of less than two million dollars but more than seven hundred
thousand dollars for the maintenance and operation fund pursuant to section 15905
shall contract for a biennial financial statement audit. An independent
certified public accountant shall conduct the audit in accordance with
generally accepted governmental auditing standards. To the extent permitted by
federal law, a school district that is required to participate in an annual
audit pursuant to this subsection may convert to a biennial audit schedule if
the previous annual audit did not contain any significant negative
findings.If a biennial audit of a school district conducted
pursuant to this subsection contains any significant negative findings, the
school district shall convert back to an annual audit schedule.If a
school district is required to convert back to an annual audit schedule
pursuant to this subsection because of significant negative findings, the
school district may subsequently convert to a biennial audit schedule if the
previous two annual audits did not contain any significant negative
findings.For the purposes of this subsection, "significant
negative finding" means a finding that results in the issuance of a letter
of noncompliance from the auditor general.
B.The governing board
of a charter school that is required to comply with the single audit act
amendments of 1996 shall contract for an annual financial and compliance audit
of financial transactions and accounts subject to the single audit act
amendments of 1996 and kept by or for the charter school.
C.A charter school that
is not subject to the single audit act amendments of 1996 shall contract for at least an annual financial
statement comprehensive
audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted governmental
auditing standards.An independent certified public accountant shall
conduct the audit. 
D.For all audits
referred to in subsections A, B and C of this section, the independent
certified public accountant shall submit a uniform system of financial records
compliance questionnaire to the auditor general with the applicable audit
reports.
E.Contracts for all
financial and compliance audits and financial statement audits and the
completed audits shall be approved by the auditor general as provided in
section 411279.21.Contracts for all financial and compliance
audits and financial statement audits shall comply with the rules for
competitive sealed proposals as prescribed by the state board of education in
section 15213.
F.If the school
district or charter school will incur costs of financial and compliance audits
for the budget year, the governing board of a
the school district or the governing body of the charter school
may increase its base support level for the budget year by an amount equal to
the amount expended for the district's or charter school's financial and
compliance audits in the year before the current year, increased by the growth
rate as prescribed by law, subject to appropriation.In determining
the amount expended for the district's or charter school's financial and
compliance audits, the school district or charter school shall include only the
portion of the audit that must be paid from monies other than federal
monies.The department of education and the auditor general shall
prescribe a method for determining the increase in the base support level and
shall include in the maintenance and operation section of the budget format, as
provided in section 15903, a separate line for financial and compliance
audits expenditures.
G.Every audit contract
shall include a systematic review of average daily membership, as defined in
section 15901, using methodology that is consistent with guidelines
established by the auditor general. The auditor general shall consider cost
when establishing guidelines pursuant to this subsection and, to the extent
possible, shall attempt to minimize the cost of the review. The purpose of the
review is to determine whether the average daily membership reported by the
charter school or school district is in compliance with the laws of this state
and the uniform systems of financial records for charter schools and school
districts.
H.In addition to any other audit required or allowed by
law, the auditor general shall conduct a comprehensive annual audit of each
charter school in this state.
I.Every audit conducted for a charter school that
includes a review of compliance with the uniform system of financial records
shall include examinations of classroom spending, the diversity of the charter
school pupils and staff and special education programs. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 15-914.02, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-914.02.School district or charter school audit
A school district or
charter school that is subject to audit pursuant to section 411279.03
shall comply with the reporting, followup and hearing participation
requirements of that section. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 41-1279.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1279.03.Powers and duties
A.The auditor general shall:
1.Prepare an audit plan for approval by the
committee and report to the committee the results of each audit and
investigation and other reviews conducted by the auditor general.
2.Conduct or cause to be conducted at least
biennial financial and compliance audits of financial transactions and accounts
kept by or for all state agencies subject to the single audit act of 1984 (P.L.
98502).The audits shall be conducted in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards and accordingly shall include tests of
the accounting records and other auditing procedures as may be considered
necessary in the circumstances. The audits shall include the issuance of
suitable reports as required by the single audit act of 1984 (P.L. 98502)
so the legislature, the
federal government and others will be informed as to the adequacy of financial
statements of the state in compliance with generally accepted governmental
accounting principles and to determine whether the state has complied with laws
and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements and
on major federal assistance programs.
3.Perform procedural reviews for all state agencies
at times determined by the auditor general.These reviews may
include evaluation of administrative and accounting internal controls and
reports on these reviews.
4.Perform special research requests, special audits
and related assignments as designated by the committee and conduct performance
audits, special audits, special research requests and investigations of any
state agency, whether created by the constitution or otherwise, as may be
requested by the committee.
5.Annually on or before the fourth Monday of
December, prepare a written report to the governor and to the committee that
contains a summary of activities for the previous fiscal year.
6.In the tenth year and in each fifth year
thereafter in which a transportation excise tax is in effect in a county as
provided in section 426106 or 426107, conduct a performance
audit that:
(a)Reviews past expenditures and future planned
expenditures of the transportation excise revenues and determines the impact of
the expenditures in solving transportation problems within the county and, for
a transportation excise tax in effect in a county as provided in section 426107,
determines whether the expenditures of the transportation excise revenues
comply with section 286392, subsection B.
(b)Reviews projects completed to date and projects
to be completed during the remaining years in which a transportation excise tax
is in effect. Within six months after each review period, the auditor general shall present a report
to the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the senate
detailing findings and making recommendations.If the parameters of
the performance audit are set by the citizens transportation oversight
committee, the auditor general shall also present the report to the citizens
transportation oversight committee.
(c)Reviews, determines, reports and makes
recommendations to the speaker of the house of representatives and the
president of the senate whether the distribution of highway user revenues
complies with title 28, chapter 18, article 2.If the parameters of
the performance audit are set by the citizens transportation oversight
committee, the auditor general shall also present the report to the citizens
transportation oversight committee.
7.If requested by the committee, conduct
performance audits of counties and incorporated cities and towns receiving
highway user revenue fund monies pursuant to title 28, chapter 18, article 2 to
determine if the monies are being spent as provided in section 286533,
subsection B.
8.Perform special audits designated pursuant to law
if the auditor general determines that there are adequate monies appropriated
for the auditor general to complete the audit.If the auditor
general determines the appropriated monies are inadequate, the auditor general
shall notify the committee.
9.Beginning
on July 1, 2001, Establish a schoolwide schoolwide audit team in the office of the
auditor general to conduct performance audits and monitor school districts and charter schools to
determine the percentage of every dollar spent in the classroom by a the school district or charter school. The performance audits
shall determine whether school districts and charter schools that receive monies from the Arizona
structured English immersion fund established by section 15756.04 and
the statewide compensatory instruction fund established by section 15756.11
are in compliance with title 15, chapter 7, article 3.1. The auditor general
shall determine, through random selection, the school districts and charter schools to be audited each year,
subject to review by the joint legislative audit committee. A school district or charter school that is
subject to an audit pursuant to this paragraph shall notify the auditor general
in writing as to whether the school district or charter school agrees or disagrees with the
findings and recommendations of the audit and whether the school district or charter school will
implement the findings and recommendations, implement modifications to the
findings and recommendations or refuse to implement the findings and
recommendations. The school district or
charter school shall submit to the auditor general a written
status report on the implementation of the audit findings and recommendations
every six months for two years after an audit conducted pursuant to this
paragraph. The auditor general shall review the school district's or charter school's progress
toward implementing the findings and recommendations of the audit every six
months after receipt of the district's or
charter school's status report for two years. The auditor
general may review a school district's or
charter school's progress beyond this twoyear period for
recommendations that have not yet been implemented by the school district or charter school. The
auditor general shall provide a status report of these reviews to the joint
legislative audit committee. The school district or charter school shall participate in any
hearing scheduled during this review period by the joint legislative audit
committee or by any other legislative committee designated by the joint
legislative audit committee.
B.The auditor general may:
1.Subject to approval by the committee, adopt rules
necessary to administer the duties of the office.
2.Hire consultants to conduct the studies required
by subsection A, paragraphs 6 and 7 of this section.
C.If approved by the committee, the auditor general may charge a reasonable
fee for the cost of performing audits or providing accounting services for
auditing federal funds, special audits or special services requested by
political subdivisions of the state.Monies collected pursuant to
this subsection shall be deposited in the audit services revolving fund.
D.The department of transportation, the board of
supervisors of a county that has approved a county transportation excise tax as
provided in section 426106 or 426107 and the governing bodies of
counties, cities and towns receiving highway user revenue fund monies shall
cooperate with and provide necessary information to the auditor general or the
auditor general's consultant.
E.The department of transportation shall reimburse
the auditor general as follows, and the auditor general shall deposit the
reimbursed monies in the audit services revolving fund:
1.For the cost of conducting the studies or hiring
a consultant to conduct the studies required by subsection A, paragraph 6,
subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section, from monies collected pursuant to a
county transportation excise tax levied pursuant to section 426106 or 426107.
2.For the cost of conducting the studies or hiring
a consultant pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 6, subdivision (c) and
paragraph 7 of this section, from the Arizona highway user revenue fund. END_STATUTE

