







REFERENCE TITLE: state employees; meet and confer







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1334









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Velasquez: Cardenas, Farnsworth E, Rios





AN ACT

amending title
38, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 9; relating to state employees'
organizational rights.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
38, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 9, to read:
CHAPTER 9
STATE EMPLOYEES'
ORGANIZATIONAL RIGHTS
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE38-1201.State employees; employee organizations; terms and
conditions of employment; definition
A.Any department of this state is recognized as
the sole and exclusive authority pursuant to law with respect to determining
the level of and the manner in which that department's activities are
conducted, managed and administered.It is the exclusive right of
the director of any department of this state to establish and maintain
departmental rules and procedures for the administration of that department.
B.Department employees or employee organizations
may not engage in a sickout, work slowdown or strike or any other action
that will disrupt the delivery of services.
C.This section does not:
1.Affect or limit the existing right of any department
of this state to:
(a)Direct
the work of department employees.
(b)Hire,
promote, demote, transfer, assign and retrain department employees.
(c)Suspend,
discharge or discipline department employees.
(d)Maintain
the efficiency of governmental operations.
(e)Relieve
department employees from job responsibilities due to lack of work or other
legitimate reasons.
2.Invalidate or limit other rights, remedies or
procedures of this state relating to any issue of employment of department
employees.
D.Any department of this state shall:
1.Allow department employees the right to join employee
organizations.
2.Recognize that an employee organization that has at
least one thousand state employees as members will have a seat at the
bargaining table.
3.Agree to meet and confer with those employee
organizations that meet the minimum membership requirements regarding hours,
wages and benefits and terms and conditions of employment.
4.Commit any agreements to writing in a contract.
E.The recognized employee organization and any
department of this state shall meet and confer on a regular basis, at least
once every two years, to discuss hours of employment and other conditions of
employment of department employees.On the request of the employee
organization, any department of this state shall meet and confer with the employee
organization in good faith at reasonable times.If any department of
this state and the employee organization reach an agreement, the agreement must
be submitted to the governor for consideration pursuant to subsection G of this
section.
F.If an agreement is not reached and the
possibility of settlement is remote after the parties meet and confer for a
reasonable period of time, any department of this state or the employee
organization may offer to the other party a written request to begin a
mediation process. The mediation process is voluntary and
binding.The mediation process must use a neutral thirdparty
mediator to assist the parties in reaching a voluntary agreement. During the
mediation process, each party shall agree to make a good faith attempt to
resolve the issues, to cooperate with the mediator and to be open, candid and
complete.The mediator shall facilitate only the meet and confer
process and may not impose any term of the agreement on the parties. If the
parties reach an agreement during the mediation process, the agreement must be
submitted to the governor for consideration pursuant to subsection G of this
section. If the mediation process does not resolve all disputed issues between
the parties, either party may advise the governor of the issues that remain in
dispute.
G.The governor shall review any agreement or proposed
compromise that is reached under this section. Any agreement or compromise is
subject to all applicable statutory limitations for any department of this
state.The final decision by the governor is binding.
H.Any department of this state shall record the
proceedings of each meeting with the qualified employee organization.
I.For the purposes of this section, "employee
organization" means any organization or employee union or association in
which employees participate and that exists for the purpose, in whole or in
part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes,
training, hours of employment or other conditions of employment. END_STATUTE

