







REFERENCE TITLE: electronic communication privacy rights







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1352









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





AN ACT

amending sections
133001, 133011, 133012 and 133013, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing sections 133015, 133016 and 133018,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 30, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding new sections 133015, 133016 and 133018;
amending title 13, chapter 38, article 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 133932; relating to electronic communications.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 13, chapter 30, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "EAVESDROPPING AND COMMUNICATIONS" to
"EAVESDROPPING AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION PRIVACY RIGHTS".
Sec.2.Section 13-3001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3001.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the
context otherwise requires:
1."Adverse
result" means any of the following:
(a)Danger to the life or physical
safety of an individual.
(b)Flight from prosecution.
(c)Destruction of or tampering with
evidence.
(d)Intimidation of potential
witnesses.
(e)Serious jeopardy to an
investigation or undue delay of a trial.
1.2."Aural
transfer" means a communication containing the human voice at any point
between and including the point of origin and the point of reception.
3."Authorized
possessor" means the possessor of an electronic device if that person is
the owner of the device or has been authorized to possess the device by the
owner of the device.
2.4."Child monitoring
device" means a device that is capable of transmitting an audio or
audiovisual signal and that is installed or used in a residence for child
supervision or safety monitoring by any parent, guardian or other responsible
person in the person's own residence.
3.5."Communication
service provider" or "service
provider" means any person who is engaged in providing a
service that allows its users to send or receive oral, wire or electronic
communications or computer services,
including any service that acts as an intermediary in the transmission of
electronic communications or that stores electronic communication information.
4.6."Electronic
communication" means any transfer of signs, signals, writing, images,
sounds, data or intelligence of any nature that is transmitted in whole or in
part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photooptical system
but that does not include any of the following:
(a)Any wire or oral communication.
(b)Any communication made through a toneonly
paging device.
(c)Any communication from a tracking device.
7."Electronic
communication information" means any information about an electronic
communication or the use of an electronic communication service, including the
content, sender, recipient, format or location of the sender or recipient at
any point during the communication, the time or date the communication was
created, sent or received or any information pertaining to any individual or
device participating in the communication, including an internet protocol
address. Electronic communication information does not include subscriber
information.
8."electronic
communication service" means a service that provides to its subscribers or
users the ability to send or receive electronic communications, including any
service that acts as an intermediary in the transmission of electronic
communications, or that stores electronic communication information.
5.9."Electronic
communication system" means any communication or computer facilities or
related electronic equipment for the transmission, processing or electronic
storage of electronic communications.
10."Electronic
device" means a device that stores, generates or transmits information in
electronic form.
11."Electronic
device information" means any information that is stored on or generated
through the operation of an electronic device, including the current and
previous locations of the device.
12."Electronic
information" means electronic communication information or electronic
device information.
6.13."Electronic
storage" means either of the following:
(a)Any temporary, intermediate storage of a wire or
electronic communication incidental to the electronic transmission.
(b)Any storage of the communication by an
electronic communication service provider for purposes of backup protection of
the communication.
14."Government
entity" means a department or agency of this state or a political
subdivision of this state or an individual acting for or on behalf of this
state or a political subdivision of this state.
7.15."Intercept"
means the aural or other acquisition of the contents of any wire, electronic or
oral communication through the use of any electronic, mechanical or other
device.
8.16."Oral
communication" means a spoken communication that is uttered by a person
who exhibits an expectation that the communication is not subject to
interception under circumstances justifying the expectation but does not
include any electronic communication.
9.17."Pen
register" means a device or process that records or decodes electronic or
other impulses that identify the numbers dialed or otherwise transmitted on the
telephone line or communication facility to which the device is attached or the
dialing, routing, addressing or signaling information that is transmitted by an
instrument or facility from which a wire or electronic communication is
transmitted but does not include the contents of any communication, except when
used in connection with a court order issued pursuant to section 133010
or 133012. A pen register does not include a publicly available device
or process that is otherwise not unlawful.
10.18."Person"
means any individual, enterprise, public or private corporation, unincorporated
association, partnership, firm, society, governmental authority or entity,
including the subscriber to the communication service involved, and any law
enforcement officer.
11.19."Readily
accessible to the general public" means a radio communication that is not:
(a)Scrambled or encrypted.
(b)Transmitted using modulation techniques with
essential parameters that have been withheld from the public to preserve the
privacy of the communication.
(c)Carried on a subcarrier or other signal
subsidiary to a radio transmission.
(d)Transmitted over a communication system provided
by a common carrier, unless the communication is a toneonly paging
system communication.
(e)Transmitted on frequencies allocated under part
25, subpart D, E or F or part 74 or part 94 of the rules of the federal communications
commission. If a communication transmitted on a frequency allocated under part
74 is not exclusively allocated to broadcast auxiliary services, the
communication is a twoway voice communication system by radio.
12.20."Remote
computing service" means providing to the public any computer storage or
processing services by means of an electronic communication system.
21."Specific
consent" means consent that is provided directly to the government entity
seeking information, including when the government entity is the addressee, the
intended recipient or a member of the intended audience of an electronic
communication. Specific consent does not require that the originator of the
communication have actual knowledge that an addressee, intended recipient or
member of the specific audience is a government entity.
22."Subscriber
information" means the name, street address, telephone number, email
address or other similar contact information that is provided by the subscriber
to the provider to establish or maintain an account or communication channel, a
subscriber or account number or identifier, the length of service and the types
of services used by a user of or subscriber to a service provider.
13.23."Trap and
trace device" means a device or process that captures the incoming
electronic or other impulses that identify the originating number of an
instrument or device from which a wire or electronic communication was
transmitted or the dialing, routing, addressing and signaling information that is
reasonably likely to identify the source of a wire or electronic communication
but does not include the content of any communication, except when used in
connection with a court order issued pursuant to section 133010 or 133012.
A trap and trace device does not include a publicly available device or process
that is otherwise not unlawful.
14.24."Wire
communication" means any aural transfer that is made in whole or in part
through the use of facilities for the transmission of communications by the aid
of any wire, cable or other like connection between the point of origin and the
point of reception, including the use of a connection in a switching station,
and that is furnished or operated by any person who is engaged in providing or
operating the facilities for the transmission of communications. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 13-3011, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3011.Disclosing confidential information relating to ex parte
order; exceptions; classification
A.Except in any trial, hearing or other judicial
proceeding, a person shall not knowingly disclose to another person any
information concerning either:
1.The application for or the granting or denial of
orders for the interception or installation of a pen register or trap and trace
device or a request for the preservation
of records or evidence pursuant to section 133016 or a subpoena issued
pursuant to section 133018.
2.The identity of the person or persons whose
communications are the subject of an ex parte order, subpoena or records preservation request granted
pursuant to sections 133010, 133015,
133016, and 133017 and 133018.
B.Subsection A of this section does not apply to
the disclosure of information to the communication service provider whose
facilities are involved or to an employee or other authorized agent of the
county attorney, attorney general or law enforcement agency that applies for an
order permitting interception or installation of a pen register or trap and
trace device or who requests the
preservation of records or evidence pursuant to section 133016 or a
subpoena issued pursuant to section 133018.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a
peace officer or prosecuting attorney who obtains knowledge of the contents of
a wire, electronic or oral communication as authorized by sections 133010,
133015, 133016, and 133017 and 133018 or evidence derived from that
knowledge may:
1.Disclose the contents of the communication to a
peace officer or prosecuting attorney to the extent the disclosure is
appropriate to the proper performance of the official duties of the peace
officer or prosecuting attorney making or receiving the disclosure.
2.Use the contents of the communication to the
extent that the use is appropriate to the proper performance of the official
duties of the peace officer or prosecuting attorney.
D.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 13-3012, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3012.Exemptions
The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
1.The interception of wire, electronic or oral
communications, the installation and operation of a pen register or trap and
trace device, the providing of information, facilities or technical assistance
to an investigative or law enforcement officer pursuant to a subpoena or an ex parte order granted
pursuant to sections 133010, 133015,
133016, and 133017 and 133018 or an emergency
interception made in good faith pursuant to section 133015 133016, including any of the foregoing
acts by a communication service provider or its officers, agents or employees.
2.The normal use of services, equipment and
facilities that are provided by a communication service provider pursuant to
tariffs that are on file with the Arizona corporation commission or the federal
communications commission and the normal functions of any operator of a
switchboard.
3.Any officer, agent or employee of a communication
service provider who performs acts that are otherwise prohibited by this article chapter in providing, constructing,
maintaining, repairing, operating or using the provider's services, equipment
or facilities, protecting the provider's service, equipment and facilities from
illegal use in violation of tariffs that are on file with the Arizona corporation
commission or the federal communications commission and protecting the provider
from the commission of fraud against it.
4.Providing requested information or any other
response to a subpoena or other order that is issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or on demand of any other lawful authority.
5.The interception of wire or electronic
communications or the use of a pen register or trap and trace device by a
communication service provider or by a person providing technical assistance at
the request of the communication service provider if the interception or use
either:
(a)Relates to the operation, maintenance and
testing of that service, the protection of the rights or property of the
provider or the protection of users of that service from fraudulent, abusive or
unlawful use of that service.
(b)Records the fact that a wire or electronic
communication was initiated or completed in order to protect the provider,
another provider furnishing service toward the completion of the communication
or a user of that service from fraudulent, unlawful or abusive use of that
service.
6.The interception of any radio communication that
is transmitted:
(a)By any station for the use of the general public
or if the transmission relates to ships, aircraft, vehicles or persons in
distress.
(b)By any government, law enforcement, civil
defense, private land mobile or public safety communication system, including
police and fire systems, and that is readily accessible to the general public.
(c)By any station that operates on an authorized
frequency within the bands that are allocated to the amateur, citizens band or
general mobile radio services.
(d)By any marine or aeronautical communications
system.
(e)Through a system using frequencies that are
monitored by persons who are engaged in the provision or the use of the system
or by other persons who use the same frequency if the communication is not
scrambled or encrypted.
7.The interception of wire or electronic
communication if the transmission is causing harmful interference to any
lawfully operating station or consumer electronic equipment, to the extent
necessary to identify the source of the interference.
8.The use of a pen register or trap and trace
device by a communication service provider for billing or recording as an
incident to billing for communication services, or for cost accounting or other
like purposes in the ordinary course of business.
9.The interception of any wire, electronic or oral
communication by any person, if the interception is effected with the consent
of a party to the communication or a person who is present during the
communication, or the installation of a pen register or trap and trace device
with the consent of a user or subscriber to the service.
10.Divulging the
contents of a wire or electronic communication and any related records or
information to a law enforcement agency by a remote computing service or
communication service provider, officer or employee if either:
(a)The contents, records or information were
lawfully or inadvertently obtained by the service provider and appear to
pertain to the commission of a crime.
(b)The provider reasonably believes that an
emergency involving immediate danger of death or serious physical injury to any
person justifies the disclosure of the contents, records or information without
delay.
11.Divulging records or other information that
pertains to a customer or subscriber by a remote computing service or
communication service provider, other than the contents of a communication,
either:
(a)As authorized by section 133016.
(b) With the customer's or subscriber's consent.
(c) As may be necessary incident to the rendition of the
service or for the protection of the rights or property of the provider of that
service.
(d) To any person other than a governmental agency.
12.The interception or access of an electronic
communication that is made through an electronic communication system and that
is configured so that the electronic communication is readily accessible to the
general public.
13.For other users of the same frequency to
intercept a radio communication that is made through a system that uses
frequencies that are monitored by individuals who provide or use the system, if
the communication is not scrambled or encrypted.
14.The interception of oral communications by means
of a child monitoring device. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
13-3013, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3013.Defenses
Any of the following constitute constitutes a complete defense to any civil or
criminal action brought under this chapter or under any other law:
1.A good faith reliance on an ex parte order or subpoena that is issued
pursuant to section 133010, 133015,
133016, or 133017 or 133018.
2.Providing information pursuant to section 133012.
3.Providing assistance, information or facilities
for an emergency interception pursuant to section 133015 133016.
4.Disclosing
stored electronic communications or preserving records, content or evidence
pursuant to section 133016.
5.Providing
equipment, information or assistance to render stored electronic communications
in a usable form pursuant to section 133016.
Sec.6.Repeal
Sections 133015,
13-3016 and 13-3018, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.7.Title 13, chapter 30, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding new sections 133015, 13-3016 and 133018,
to read:
13-3015.Government entity; access to
electronic information in an emergency; requirements 
A.Except as
otherwise provided in this section, a government entity that executes a search
warrant or that obtains electronic information in an emergency pursuant to
section 133016 shall serve on, or deliver to by registered or first
class mail, email or other means reasonably calculated to be effective,
the identified targets of the search warrant or emergency request, a notice
that informs the recipient that information about the recipient has been
compelled or requested and that states with reasonable specificity the nature
of the government investigation under which the information is sought. The
notice shall include a copy of the search warrant or a written statement
setting forth facts giving rise to the emergency. The notice shall be provided
contemporaneously with the execution of a search warrant or, in the case of an
emergency, within three days after obtaining the electronic information.
B.When a
search warrant is sought or electronic information is obtained in an emergency
pursuant to section 133016, the government entity may submit a request
supported by a sworn affidavit for an order delaying notification and
prohibiting any party providing information from notifying any other party that
information has been sought. if the court determines that there is reason to
believe that notification may have an adverse result, The court shall issue the
order for the period of time that the court finds there is reason to believe
that the notification may have that adverse result, not to exceed ninety days.
The court may grant extensions of the delay of up to ninety days each as
provided in this subsection.
c.On
expiration of the period of delay of the notification, the government entity
shall serve on, or deliver to by registered or first class mail, email
or other means reasonably calculated to be effective as specified by the court
issuing the order authorizing delayed notification, the identified targets of
the search warrant a document that includes the information prescribed in
subsection A of this section and a copy of all electronic information obtained
or a summary of that information including, at a minimum, the number and types
of records disclosed, the date and time when the earliest and latest records
were created and a statement of the grounds for the court's determination to
grant a delay in notifying the individual.
d.If there
is no identified target of a search warrant or emergency request at the time of
its issuance, the government entity shall submit to the attorney general within
three days after the execution of the search warrant or issuance of the request
all of the information prescribed in subsection A of this section. If an order
delaying notification is obtained pursuant to subsection B of this section, the
government entity shall submit to the attorney general on the expiration of the
period of delay all of the information prescribed in subsection c of this
section. The attorney general shall publish all those reports on the attorney
general's website within ninety days after receipt. The attorney general may
redact names or other personal identifying information from the reports.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE13-3016.Government entity; prohibited access to or production of
electronic communication information and devices; exceptions; search warrant
requirements; emergency orders
A.Except as
provided in sections 133012 and 133013 and this section, a
government entity may not do any of the following:
1.Compel
the production of or access to electronic communication information from a
service provider.
2.Compel
the production of or access to electronic device information from any person or
entity other than the authorized possessor of the device.
3.Access
electronic device information by means of physical interaction or electronic
communication with the electronic device. This paragraph does not prohibit the
intended recipient of an electronic communication from voluntarily disclosing
electronic communication information concerning that communication to a
government entity.
B.A
government entity may compel the production of or access to electronic communication
information from a service provider or compel the production of or access to
electronic device information from any person or entity other than the
authorized possessor of the device only under the following circumstances:
1.Except as
provided in subsection D of this section, pursuant to a search warrant issued
pursuant to Chapter 38, article 8 of this title.
2.Pursuant
to an order for interception of electronic communication information issued
pursuant to section 133010.
3.pURSUANT
TO AN ORDER FOR A PEN REGISTER OR TRAP AND TRACE DEVICE ISSUED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 133017.
4.Pursuant
to a subpoena issued pursuant to existing law, if the information is not sought
for the purpose of investigating or prosecuting a criminal offense and if compelling
the production of or access to the information via the subpoena is not
otherwise prohibited by state or federal law. This paragraph does not expand
any authority under the laws of this state to compel the production of or
access to electronic information.
C.A
government entity may access electronic device information by means of physical
interaction or electronic communication with the device only as follows:
1.Except as
provided in subsection D of this section, pursuant to a search warrant issued
pursuant to Chapter 38, article 8 of this title.
2.Pursuant
to an order for interception of electronic communication information issued
pursuant to section 133010.
3.pURSUANT
TO AN ORDER FOR A PEN REGISTER OR TRAP AND TRACE DEVICE ISSUED PURSUANT TO
SECTION 133017.
4.With the
specific consent of the authorized possessor of the device.
5.With the
specific consent of the owner of the device, only if the device has been
reported as lost or stolen.
6.If the
government entity, in good faith, believes that an emergency involving danger
of death or serious physical injury to any person requires access to the
electronic device information.
7.If the
government entity, in good faith, believes that the device is lost, stolen or
abandoned, except that the entity shall only access electronic device
information in order to attempt to identify, verify or contact the owner or
authorized possessor of the device.
8.unless
prohibited by state or federal law, if the device is seized from an inmate's
possession or is found in an area of a correctional facility where inmates have
access, the device is not in the possession of an individual and the device is
not known or believed to be the possession of an authorized visitor.
D.a search
warrant that is authorized by this section and that is issued pursuant to
chapter 38, article 8 of this title for electronic information shall do all of
the following:
1.describe
with particularity the information to be seized by specifying the time periods
covered and, as appropriate and reasonable, the target individuals or accounts,
the applications or services covered and the types of information sought.
2.require
that any information that is obtained through the execution of the search
warrant and that is unrelated to the objective of the search warrant be sealed
and not subject to further review, use or disclosure without a court order. A
court shall issue such an order on a finding that there is probable cause to
believe that the information is relevant to an active investigation or that
review, use or disclosure is required by state or federal law.
3.comply
with all other provisions of state and federal law, including any provisions
prohibiting, limiting or imposing additional requirements on the use of search
warrants. If directed to a service provider, the search warrant must be
accompanied by an order requiring the service provider to certify the
authenticity of the electronic information that it produces if all of the
following apply:
(a)The records are the regular
electronic information records that are used and kept by the communication
service provider.
(b)The records of electronic
communication information are made at or near the time the underlying
communications occur in the ordinary course of business.
(c)The authorized representative
certifies that the record produced in response to the search warrant is an
accurate copy of the communication service provider records.
E.When
issuing a SEARCH warrant or order for electronic information, or on the petition
from the target or recipient of the search warrant or order, a court, in its
discretion, may do any or all of the following:
1.Appoint a
special master to ensure that only information necessary to achieve the
objective of the search warrant or order is produced or accessed.
2.Require
that any information obtained through the execution of the SEARCH warrant or
order that is unrelated to the objective of the search warrant be destroyed as
soon as feasible after the termination of the current investigation and any
related investigations or proceedings.
F.A service
provider may voluntarily disclose electronic communication information or
subscriber information if that disclosure is not otherwise prohibited by state
or federal law.
G.If a
government entity receives electronic communication information that is
voluntarily provided pursuant to subsection F of this section, the government
entity shall destroy that information within ninety days after receiving it
unless one or more of the following circumstances apply:
1.The
entity has or obtains the specific consent of the sender or recipient of the
electronic communications about which information was disclosed.
2.The
entity obtains a court order authorizing the retention of the information. A
court shall issue a retention order on a finding that the conditions justifying
the initial voluntary disclosure persist, in which case the court shall
authorize the retention of the information for only so long as those conditions
persist, or there is probable cause to believe that the information constitutes
evidence that a criminal offense has been committed.
3.The
entity reasonably believes that the information relates to the sexual
exploitation of a minor and the information is retained as part of a multiagency
database used in the investigation of the sexual exploitation of minors and
related offenses.
H.If a
government entity obtains electronic information pursuant to an emergency
involving danger of death or serious physical injury to a person pursuant to
subsection C of this section and requiring access to the electronic information
without delay, within three days after obtaining the electronic information,
the entity shall file with the appropriate court an application for a SEARCH
warrant or order authorizing obtaining the electronic information or a motion
seeking approval of the emergency disclosures that sets forth the facts giving
rise to the emergency and, if applicable, a request supported by a sworn
affidavit for an order delaying notification pursuant to section 133015,
subsection b. The court shall promptly rule on the application or motion and
shall order the immediate destruction of all information obtained and immediate
notification pursuant to Section 133015, subsection a if such notice has
not already been given, if the court finds that the facts did not give rise to
an emergency or rejects the search warrant or order application on any other
ground.
I.This
section does not limit the authority of a government entity to use an administrative,
grand jury, trial or civil discovery subpoena to do any of the following:
1.Require
an originator, addressee or intended recipient of an electronic communication
to disclose any electronic communication information associated with that
communication.
2.Require
an entity that provides electronic communications services to its officers,
directors, employees or agents for the purpose of carrying out their duties to
disclose electronic communication information associated with an electronic communication
to or from an officer, director, employee or agent of the entity.
3.Require a
service provider to provide subscriber information.
J.Certified
communication service records that are obtained by a search warrant may be
introduced in evidence at a hearing or trial and constitute prima facie
evidence of the facts contained in the records.
K.If a
certification of service provider records is acknowledged by a notary or other
officer who is authorized by law to take acknowledgments, the certification
shall be received in evidence without further proof of its authenticity.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE13-3018.Electronic information obtained or retained in violation
of law; civil action; liability
A.Any
person in a trial, hearing or proceeding may move to suppress any electronic
information that is obtained or retained in violation of this chapter or the
constitution of the United States or this state.
B.The
attorney general may commence a civil action to compel a government entity to
comply with this chapter.
C.A person
whose information is targeted by a search warrant, order or other legal process
that is inconsistent with this chapter or the constitution of the United States
or this state, or a service provider or any other recipient of the search
warrant, order or other legal process may petition the issuing court to void or
modify the search warrant, order or other legal process or to order the
destruction of any information that is obtained in violation of this chapter or
the constitution of the United States or this state.
D.An
Arizona or foreign corporation, and its officers, employees and agents are not
SUBJECT TO ANY CAUSE OF action for providing records, information, facilities
or assistance pursuant to the terms of a search warrant, court order, statutory
authorization, emergency certification OR ORDER issued pursuant to this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Title 13, chapter 38, article 9,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-3932, to read:
START_STATUTE13-3932.Search of electronic devices; biometric identifier; search
warrant requirement; definition
A.Except
for exigent circumstances, a person who is detained or arrested and who
possesses an electronic device that requires a biometric identifier to access
the device is not required to provide the biometric identifier to access the
device unless a valid search warrant has been issued for the biometric
identifier.
B.For the
purposes of this section, "biometric identifier" includes a
fingerprint, palm veins, face recognition, deoxyribonucleic acid, palm print,
hand geometry, iris recognition and retina. END_STATUTE

