







REFERENCE TITLE: state employee suggestion program;
  awards







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1353









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





AN ACT

amending section
38613, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the state employee
suggestion program.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-613, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-613.State employee suggestion program awards; fund; report
A.The director of the department of administration
may adopt rules to provide an award to any state employee and agency for any of the following:
1.An adopted procedure or idea that resulted in
eliminating or reducing state expenditures or improving operations in the
public interest.
2.The performance of a special act or service in
the public interest.
B.The governor shall appoint a five member five-member board that serves at the
governor's pleasure for four year
fouryear staggered
terms to establish policy for the operation of the state employee suggestion
program, review all suggestions and approve all awards with the concurrence of
the head of the agency in which the cost saving is realized. The board shall consider whether ADEQUATE customer service
levels will be MAINTAINED when approving an award.The
board shall elect a chairman each year.
C.The award may not equal no more than ten per cent forty percent of the amount saved as a result
of the suggestion. not more than ten
percent of the amount of the savings may be awarded to the state employee who
provided the suggestion. if monies are awarded to a state employee, one
percent of the amount of the savings shall be awarded to the head of the
agency. the remaining amount of the savings shall be used by the agency for soft capital and building repairs and renovations. The soft
capital and building repair and renovation expenditures shall be made on a onetime
basis.
D.A state employee suggestion program award fund is
established consisting of identified measurable dollar savings transferred from
appropriated and nonappropriated monies in the budget unit where the cost
saving is realized, except that monies may not be transferred from the state
general fund.The board shall initiate fund transfers with the
concurrence of the director of the department of administration. Except as
provided in subsection G of this section, the director of the department of administration
shall use monies in the state employee suggestion program award fund for the
following purposes only:
1.To make awards pursuant to this section.
2.To purchase recognition materials with a cost of
not to exceed fifty dollars for each award.
E.The board shall certify to the director of the
department of administration the names of persons and agencies granted awards and the amounts of
the awards. Awards of less than one
hundred dollars shall be paid in a lump sum. Awards of one hundred dollars or
more may be paid out annually over not more than five years. If an award is
paid out annually, the award shall be reduced each year by twenty percent. In
order to receive the award, the person must be a state employee at the time of
award.On certification of the names and the amounts
of the awards the director of the department of administration shall draw a
warrant on the state treasurer.The state treasurer shall pay the
warrant from the state employee suggestion program award fund. 
F.the department of administration shall report
annually to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the
house of representatives the amounts of awards granted and how the agencies
have spent those awards. the department of administration shall provide a copy
of this report to the secretary of state. 
F.G.An
award to a state employee shall not be considered as extra compensation.
G.H.The director of
the department of administration may use up to six per cent PERCENT of any monies transferred to the state employee
suggestion program award fund for the purposes of administering, advertising
and promoting the state employee suggestion program.
H.I.Elected officials, directors, deputy directors, managers and
supervisors are not eligible for awards pursuant to this section.
END_STATUTE

