







REFERENCE TITLE: rulemaking exemption; one-year review







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1388









Introduced by
Senators
  Burges, Allen S, Lesko, McGuire, Sherwood, Smith; Representatives Allen J,
  Thorpe: Senators Barto, Begay, Biggs, Bradley, Contreras, Donahue, Farnsworth
  D, Griffin, Meza, Miranda, Quezada, Shooter, Worsley, Yee; Representatives
  Kern, Leach, Lovas, Mesnard, Townsend





AN ACT

amending title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 6.1; relating to rulemaking
review.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 6.1, to read:
CHAPTER 6.1
RULEMAKING REVIEW
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE41-1095.Review by agency; definitions
A.Within
one year after a rule has been adopted pursuant to an exemption under chapter 6
of this title, each agency shall review the rule to determine whether any rule
should be amended or repealed.The agency shall prepare and obtain
council approval of a written report summarizing its findings, its supporting
reasons and any proposed course of action.The report shall contain
a certification that the agency is in compliance with section 411091.
The report shall include a concise analysis of all of the following:
1.The
rule's effectiveness in achieving its objectives, including a summary of any
available data supporting the conclusions reached.
2.Written
criticisms of the rule received since the rule was adopted, including any
written analyses submitted to the agency questioning whether the rule is based
on valid scientific or reliable principles or methods.
3.Authorization
of the rule by existing statutes.
4.Whether
the rule is consistent with statutes or other rules made by the agency and
current agency enforcement policy.
5.The
clarity, conciseness and understandability of the rule.
6.The
estimated economic, small business and consumer impact of the rule.
7.Any
analysis submitted to the agency by another person regarding the rule's impact
on this state's business competitiveness as compared to the competitiveness of
businesses in other states.
8.If
applicable, that the agency completed any additional process required by law,
including the requirement for the agency to publish otherwise exempt rules or
provide the public with an opportunity to comment on the rules.
9.A
determination that the probable benefits of the rule outweigh within this state
the probable costs of the rule, and the rule imposes the least burden and costs
to persons regulated by the rule, including paperwork and other compliance
costs, necessary to achieve the underlying regulatory objective.
10.A
determination that the rule is not more stringent than a corresponding federal
law unless there is statutory authority to exceed the requirements of that
federal law.
11.For
rules that require the issuance of a regulatory permit, license or agency
authorization, whether the rule complies with section 411037.
B.An agency
may also include as part of the report the text of a proposed expedited rule
pursuant to section 411027.
C.The
council may require the agency to propose an amendment or repeal of the rule by
a date not earlier than six months after the date of the meeting at which the
council considers the agency's report on its rule if the council determines the
agency's analysis under subsection A of this section demonstrates that the rule
is materially flawed, including that the rule:
1.Is not
authorized by statute.
2.Is
inconsistent with other statutes, rules or agency enforcement policies and the
inconsistency results in a significant burden on the regulated public.
3.Imposes
probable costs, including costs to the regulated person, that significantly
exceed the probable benefits of the rule within this state.
4.Is more
stringent than a corresponding federal law and there is no statutory authority
to exceed the requirements of federal law.
5.Is not
clear, concise and understandable.
6.Does not
use general permits if required under section 411037.
7.Does not
impose the least burden to persons regulated by the rule as necessary to
achieve the underlying regulatory objective of the rule.
8.Does not
rely on valid scientific or reliable principles and methods, including a study,
if the rule relies on scientific principles or methods, and a person has
submitted an analysis under subsection A of this section questioning whether
the rule is based on valid scientific or reliable principles or methods. In
making a determination of validity or reliability, the council shall consider
the factors listed in section 411052, subsectionG.
D.An agency
may request an extension of not longer than six months from the date specified
by the council pursuant to subsection C of this section by sending a written
request to the council that:
1.Identifies
the reason for the extension request.
2.Demonstrates
good cause for the extension.
E.The
agency shall notify the council of an amendment or repeal of a rule for which
the council has set an expiration date under subsection C of this section. If
the agency does not amend or repeal the rule by the date specified by the council
under subsection C of this section or the extended date under subsection D of
this section, the rule automatically expires. The council shall file a notice
of rule expiration with the secretary of state and notify the agency of the
expiration of the rule.
F.If an
agency finds that it cannot provide the written report to the council by the
date it is due, the agency may file an extension with the council before the
due date indicating the reason for the extension.The timely filing
for an extension permits the agency to submit its report on or before the date
prescribed by the council.
G.If an
agency fails to submit its report pursuant to subsection A of this section, or
file an extension before the due date of the report or if it files an extension
and does not submit its report within the extension period, the rule expires
and the council shall:
1.Cause a
notice to be published in the next register that states the rule has expired
and is no longer enforceable.
2.Notify
the secretary of state that the rule has expired and that the rule is to be
removed from the code.
3.Notify
the agency that the rule has expired and is no longer enforceable.
H.If a rule
expires as provided in subsection G of this section and the agency wishes to
reestablish the rule, the agency shall comply with the requirements of chapter
6 of this title.
I.At least
ninety days before the due date of a report, the council shall send a written
notice to the head of the agency whose report is due. The notice shall list the
rule to be reviewed and the date the report is due.
J.For the
purposes of this section, "agency", "council" and
"rule" have the same meanings prescribed in section 411001. END_STATUTE

