







REFERENCE TITLE: county treasurer; warrants; electronic
  transfers







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1348









Introduced by
Senators
  Burges: Lesko





AN ACT

Amending sections
11634, 11635, 11636 and 11637, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing section 11638, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 11640, 11645 and 35323, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to claims and warrants.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-634, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-634.Payment of warrants, substitute checks and electronic
funds transfers; definitions 
A.When
If the board of
supervisors, the county superintendent of schools or a special district
presents a warrant, or substitute check or electronic funds transfer for
payment, the county treasurer shall pay it and make a charge against the appropriate
account. An electronic image of the original warrant or an electronic record of the electronic funds transfer provided
by or made available by the servicing bank in a format approved by the county
treasurer shall be is deemed properly presented.
B.For the purposes of this section: ,

1."Substitute
check" and has the same meaning prescribed in section 9249.
2."Warrant"
have has the same meanings meaning prescribed in section 9249 and includes a record from which an electronic funds
transfer may be made. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-635, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-635.Warrants, substitute checks and electronic funds transfers
unpaid for lack of monies; interest; definitions 
A.If a revolving line of credit has not been
obtained for a political subdivision or if the revolving line of credit has
been expended, the treasurer shall write
or stamp on the face of the warrant or substitute check "not paid for lack
of funds" and the date of presentation, and from that time until it is
paid, the warrant or substitute check shall bear no more than ten per cent
interest per year spent
and if there are insufficient monies in the issuer's account, the county
treasurer may invest in the warrant, substitute check or electronic funds
transfer prescribed in section 35323, subsectionA, paragraph 7.
B.The county
treasurer shall keep a register of warrants and substitute checks
and a record of electronic funds
transfers presented for payment.
C.If the
county treasurer does not invest in the presented warrant, substitute check or
electronic funds transfer, the county treasurer shall notify the servicing bank
that the warrant or substitute check will not be paid for lack of monies and
from that time until there are sufficient monies to pay the original warrant,
the original warrant may not bear more than ten percent interest per year.
C.D.For the purposes
of this section: ,
1."Substitute
check" and has the same meaning prescribed in section 9249.
2."Warrant"
have has the same meanings meaning prescribed in section 9249 and includes a record from which an electronic funds
transfer may be made. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 11-636, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-636.Effect on interest after notice of readiness to pay unpaid
warrants; notice requirements
A.When
If there is are sufficient
money monies in the treasury to pay the warrants that have been returned and are drawing
interest, the county treasurer
shall give notice thereof by publication in some a newspaper
published in the county,
or by posting written
notice posted at the court house courthouse door, or
on the county's website stating that he the
county treasurer is ready to pay the warrants.From
the first publication or posting of the notice the warrants shall cease to draw interest.
B.In the notice published in a newspaper, the county treasurer shall not
publish the warrants in detail, but shall give notice only that only county warrants presented for payment prior to such a before the date, as stated in the notice, are payable.When If
only part of the warrants presented on the same day are payable,
the county treasurer
shall designate the payable warrants in the notice. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 11-637, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-637.Effect of priority of presentment on preference of payment
Warrants are entitled to preference of payment from money monies applicable to the warrants according to
priority of presentment.The
treasurer, upon receipt of money not otherwise appropriated, shall set it apart
or so much thereof as is necessary for payment of the warrants.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Repeal
Section 11-638,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.6.Section 11-640, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-640.Record of interest paid
When If the county treasurer pays a warrant on which
interest is due, he the treasurer shall record the
amount of interest paid in the register
or call warrant list. The amount of such the
interest shall be entered on his the
account separate from the principal. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 11-645, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-645.Warrants, substitute checks and electronic funds transfers
unpaid for lack of monies; interest; notice; reissued warrants; definitions
A.Notwithstanding sections 11635, and 11636 and 11638, this section applies to each
county treasurer of a county in this state that has a population of two million
or more persons.
B.If a revolving line of credit has not been
obtained for a political subdivision or if the revolving line of credit has
been expended spent and if there are
insufficient funds monies in the issuer's account,
the county treasurer shall write or stamp on the face of the
may invest in the warrant, substitute
check or electronic funds transfer prescribed in section 35323,
subsection A, paragraph 7.If the county treasurer does not invest
in the presented warrant,
or substitute check "not or electronic funds transfer, the county treasurer shall
notify the servicing bank that the warrant or substitute check will not be paid
for lack of funds" and the date of
presentation, monies and
from that time until it is paid
there are sufficient monies to pay the
original warrant, the original
warrant or substitute check
shall may not bear
no more than ten per cent percent interest per year. If a physical
warrant is not presented to the county treasurer
but the county treasurer
receives an electronic notice that the warrant was issued, the treasurer shall
notify the servicing bank that the warrant will not be paid for lack of funds monies, and from that time until there are
sufficient funds monies to pay the original
warrant, the original amount of the warrant shall may
not bear no
more than ten per cent percent interest per year. 
C.The county
treasurer shall keep a register of warrants and substitute checks
presented for payment and a record of
electronic funds transfers.
D.When
If there is are sufficient
money monies in the treasury to pay the warrants
drawing interest and registered pursuant to this section, the county treasurer shall notify the issuing
entity of the availability of the monies.The monies shall be placed
in a clearing fund or other appropriate fund that is agreed on by the county treasurer and district.
The issuing entity shall issue new warrants, which shall that include the original principal amount and
any accrued interest, and notify the county
treasurer of the warrant numbers, amounts and payees.
E.When
If only part of the
warrants presented on the same day are payable, the county treasurer shall designate the payable
warrants and notify the issuing entity of the warrants to be paid and the
warrants to be registered.
F.A warrant that is reissued pursuant to this
section shall be processed pursuant to section 11644.
G.For the purposes of this section: ,

1."Substitute
check" and has the same meaning prescribed in section 9249.
2."Warrant"
have has the same meanings meaning prescribed in section 9249 and includes a record from which an electronic funds
transfer may be made. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 35-323, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-323.Investing public monies; bidding;
security and other requirements
A.The treasurer shall invest and reinvest public
monies in securities and deposits with a maximum maturity of five
years.All public monies shall be invested in eligible
investments.Eligible investments are:
1.Certificates of deposit in eligible depositories.
2.Deposits in one or more federally insured banks
or savings and loan associations placed in accordance with the procedures
prescribed in section 35323.01.
3.Interest bearing savings accounts in banks and
savings and loan institutions doing business in this state whose accounts are
insured by federal deposit insurance for their industry, but only if deposits
in excess of the insured amount are secured by the eligible depository to the
same extent and in the same manner as required under this article.
4.Repurchase agreements with a maximum maturity of
one hundred eighty days.
5.The pooled investment funds established by the
state treasurer pursuant to section 35326.
6.Obligations issued or guaranteed by the United
States or any of the senior debt of its agencies, sponsored agencies,
corporations, sponsored corporations or instrumentalities.
7.Bonds, notes or other evidences of indebtedness
of this state or any of its counties, incorporated cities or towns, school
districts or special taxing districts, including registered warrants, substitute checks and electronic
funds transfers that shall bear
interest pursuant to section 11635.
8.Bonds, notes or evidences of indebtedness of any
county, municipal district, municipal utility or special taxing district of any
state that are payable from revenues, earnings or a special tax specifically
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest on the obligations, and
for the payment of which a lawful sinking fund or reserve fund has been
established and is being maintained, but only if no default in payment on
principal or interest on the obligations to be purchased has occurred within
five years of the date of investment, or, if such obligations were issued less
than five years before the date of investment, no default in payment of
principal or interest has occurred on the obligations to be purchased nor any
other obligations of the issuer within five years of the investment.
9.Bonds, notes or evidences of indebtedness issued
by any county improvement district or municipal improvement district of any
state to finance local improvements authorized by law, if the principal and
interest of the obligations are payable from assessments on real property
within the improvement district.An investment shall not be made if:
(a)The face value of all such obligations, and
similar obligations outstanding, exceeds fifty percent of the market value of
the real property, and if improvements on which the bonds or the assessments
for the payment of principal and interest on the bonds are liens inferior only
to the liens for general ad valorem taxes.
(b)A default in payment of principal or interest on
the obligations to be purchased has occurred within five years of the date of
investment, or, if the obligations were issued less than five years before the
date of investment, a default in the payment of principal or interest has
occurred on the obligations to be purchased or on any other obligation of the
issuer within five years of the investment.
10.Commercial paper of prime quality that is rated
within the top two ratings by a nationally recognized rating agency. All
commercial paper must be issued by corporations organized and doing business in
the United States.
11.Bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of
indebtedness that are denominated in United States dollars and that carry at a
minimum an "A" or better rating, at the time of purchase, from at
least two nationally recognized rating agencies.
12.Negotiable or brokered certificates of deposit
issued by a nationally or state chartered bank or savings and loan association.
13.Securities of or any other interests in any openend
or closedend management type investment company or investment trust,
including exchange traded funds whose underlying investments are invested in
securities allowed by state law, registered under the investment company act of
1940 (54 Stat. 789; 15 United States Code sections 80a1 through 80a64),
as amended.
B.Certificates of deposit shall be purchased from
the eligible depository bidding the highest permissible rate of
interest.No monies over one hundred thousand dollars may be awarded
at any interest rate less than one hundred three percent of the equivalent bond
yield of the offer side of United States treasury bills having a similar
term.If the eligible depository offering to pay the highest rate of
interest has bid only for a portion of the monies to be awarded, the remainder
of the monies shall be awarded to eligible depositories bidding the next
highest rates of interest.
C.An eligible depository is not eligible to receive
total aggregate deposits from this state and all its subdivisions in an amount
exceeding twice its capital structure as outlined in the last call of condition
of the superintendent of financial institutions.
D.If two or more eligible depositories submit bids
of an identical rate of interest for all or any portion of the monies to be
deposited, the award of the deposit of the monies shall be made to the eligible
depository among those submitting identical bids having, at the time of the bid
opening, the lowest ratio of total public deposits in relation to its capital
structure.
E.Each bid submitted, and not withdrawn prior to
the time specified, constitutes an irrevocable offer to pay interest as
specified in the bid on the deposit, or portion bid for, and the award of a
deposit in accordance with this section obligates the depository to accept the
deposit and pay interest as specified in the bid pursuant to which the deposit
is awarded.
F.The treasurer shall maintain a record of all bids
received and shall make available to the board of deposit at its next regularly
scheduled meeting a correct list showing the bidders, the bids received and the
amount awarded. These records shall be available to the public and shall be
kept in the possession of the treasurer for not less than two years from the
date of the report.
G.Any eligible depository, before receiving a deposit
in excess of the insured amount under this article, shall deliver collateral
for the purposes of this subsection equal to at least one hundred two percent
of the deposit.The collateral shall be any of the following:
1.A bond executed by a surety company that is
approved by the treasury department of the United States and authorized to do
business in this state.The bond shall be approved as to form by the
legal advisor of the treasurer.
2.Securities or instruments of the following
character:
(a)United States government or agency obligations.
(b)State, county, school district and other
district municipal bonds.
3.The safekeeping receipt of a federal reserve bank
or any bank located in a reserve city, or any bank authorized to do business in
this state, whose combined capital, surplus and outstanding capital notes and
debentures on the date of the safekeeping receipt are ten million dollars or
more, evidencing the deposit therein of any securities or instruments described
in this section.A safekeeping receipt shall not qualify as
security, if issued by a bank to secure its own public deposits, unless issued
directly through its trust department.The safekeeping receipt shall
show upon on its face that it is issued for the account
of the treasurer and shall be delivered to the treasurer.The
safekeeping receipt may provide for the substitution of securities or
instruments which that qualify under this section
with the affirmative act of the treasurer.
4.Letters of credit issued by a federal home loan
bank if:
(a)The letter of credit has been delivered pursuant
to this section or chapter 10, article 1 of this title to the statewide
collateral pool administrator.
(b)The letter of credit meets the required
conditions of:
(i)Being irrevocable.
(ii)Being issued, presentable and payable at a
federal home loan bank in United States dollars. Presentation may be made by
the beneficiary submitting the original letter of credit, including any
amendments, and the demand in writing, by overnight delivery.
(iii)If the letter of credit is for purposes of
chapter 10, article 1 of this title, containing a statement that identifies the
statewide collateral pool administrator as the beneficiary.
(iv)Containing an issue date and a date of expiration.
(c)For the purposes of chapter 10, article 1 of
this title, the eligible depository, if notified by the statewide collateral
pool administrator, is not allowed to use new letters of credit issued by a
federal home loan bank if that federal home loan bank fails to pay a draw
request as provided for in the letters of credit or fails to properly complete
a confirmation of such letters of credit.
H.The securities,
instruments or safekeeping receipt for the securities and instruments shall be
accepted at market value if not above par, and, if at any time their market
value becomes less than the deposit liability to that treasurer, additional
securities or instruments required to guarantee deposits shall be deposited
immediately with the treasurer who made the deposit and deposited by the
eligible depository in which the deposit was made.
I.The condition of the surety bond, or the deposit
of securities, instruments or a safekeeping receipt, must be such that the
eligible depository will promptly pay to the parties entitled public monies in
its custody, upon on lawful demand, and will,
when required by law, pay the monies to the treasurer making the deposit.
J.Notwithstanding the requirements of this section,
any institution qualifying as an eligible depository may accept deposits of
public monies to the total then authorized insurance of accounts, insured by
federal deposit insurance, without depositing a surety bond or securities in
lieu of the surety bond.
K.An eligible depository shall report monthly to
the treasurer the total deposits of that treasurer and the par value and the
market value of any pledged collateral securing those deposits.
L.When a security or instrument pledged as
collateral matures or is called for redemption, the cash received for the
security or instrument shall be held in place of the security until the
depository has obtained a written release or provided substitute securities or
instruments.
M.The surety bond, securities, instruments or
safekeeping receipt of an eligible depository shall be deposited with the
treasurer making the deposit, and the treasurer shall be the custodian of the
bond, securities, instruments or safekeeping receipt.The treasurer
may then deposit with the depository public monies then in the treasurer's
possession in accordance with this article, but not in an amount in excess of
the surety bond, securities, instruments or safekeeping receipt deposited,
except for federal deposit insurance.
N.The following restrictions on investments are
applicable:
1.An investment of public operating fund monies
shall not be invested for a maturity of longer than five years.
2.The board of deposit may order the treasurer to
sell any of the securities, and any order shall specifically describe the
securities and fix the date upon
on which they are to be
sold.Securities so ordered to be sold shall be sold for cash by the
treasurer on the date fixed in the order, at the then current market
price.The treasurer and the members of the board are not
accountable for any loss occasioned by sales of securities at prices lower than
their cost.Any loss or expense shall be charged against earnings
received from investment of public funds.
3.Investments shall
not be made in companies identified pursuant to section 35392,
subsection A, paragraph 1.
O.If the total
amount of subdivision monies available for deposit at any time is less than the
maximum coverage amount of the federal deposit insurance corporation, the
subdivision board of deposit shall award the deposit of the funds to an
eligible depository in accordance with an ordinance or resolution of the
governing body of the subdivision. Deposits of less than the maximum coverage
amount of the federal deposit insurance corporation are not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. END_STATUTE

