







REFERENCE TITLE: prohibited money transfers; immigration;
  violations








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1378









Introduced by
Senators
  Smith, Kavanagh; Representatives Borrelli, Finchem: Senators Biggs, Burges,
  Farnsworth D, Lesko, Shooter, Yee; Representatives Kern, Livingston,
  Montenegro





AN ACT

amending title
35, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 35153;
relating to money transfers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 35, chapter 1, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 35-153, to read:
START_STATUTE35-153.Prohibited money transfers to a sanctuary city, town or
county; attorney general or county attorney investigation; electronic
notification; website list; definition
A.Notwithstanding
any other law and except as required by the constitution of Arizona, the state
treasurer may not transfer any monies from the state general fund or any other
fund to a city, town or county treasurer if the city, town or county is a
sanctuary city. The state treasurer may not transfer monies to a city, town or
county that is a sanctuary city until the state treasurer receives a
notification from the attorney general or county attorney pursuant to
subsection C of this section or the city, town or county treasurer attests that
the city, town or county is not a sanctuary city. A city, town or county is
not entitled to the payment of any monies that were withheld pursuant to this
section.
B.By
January 1 of each year, every city, town or county treasurer shall provide an
electronic notification to the state treasurer attesting that the treasurer's
city, town or county is not a sanctuary city.the treasurer may
include the electronic notification in any other report or notification that
the city, town or county is required to provide to the state treasurer.
C.The
attorney general or the county attorney in the county in which the alleged
sanctuary city is located may investigate a city, town or county to determine
if the city, town or county is a sanctuary city. a citizen may make a request
for the attorney general or the county attorney in the county in which the
alleged sanctuary city is located to investigate whether a city, town or county
is a sanctuary city. The attorney general or county attorney shall notify the
state treasurer and the city, town or county if the attorney general or county
attorney determines that the city, town or county is a sanctuary city. On
receipt of the notice from the attorney general or county attorney, the state
treasurer is prohibited from transferring monies pursuant to subsection A of
this section.The attorney general or county attorney shall
immediately notify the state treasurer if the attorney general or county
attorney determines that the city, town or county is no longer a sanctuary
city. If the state treasurer receives a notice from the attorney general or
county attorney that a city, town or county is no longer a sanctuary city, the
state treasurer shall renew transferring monies to the city, town or county
from the state general fund or any other fund as soon as reasonably possible.
D.The state
treasurer shall annually list on its website the names of all the cities, towns
and counties to which the state treasurer is, or was at any time during the
year, prohibited from transferring monies pursuant to subsection A of this section.
E.The state
treasurer shall redistribute any monies that were withheld from a city, town or
county pursuant to subsection A of this section to the cities, towns or
counties that are not sanctuary cities.
F.For the
purposes of this section, "sanctuary city" means a city, town or
county that has in effect any law, policy or procedure that Violates section 1501,
1502 or 111051. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act may be
cited as the "Sanctuary Cities Prohibition Act".

