







REFERENCE TITLE: AHCCCS; covered services







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1305









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Repealing section
36-2907, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195,
section 57; amending section 36-2907, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
Laws 2015, chapter 264, section 1; relating to the Arizona health care cost
containment system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 36-2907,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 57, is
repealed.
Sec.2.Section 36-2907, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 264, section 1, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2907.Covered health and medical services; modifications;
related delivery of service requirements; definition
A.Subject to the limitations and exclusions specified
in this section, contractors shall provide the following medically necessary
health and medical services:
1.Inpatient hospital services that are ordinarily
furnished by a hospital for the care and treatment of inpatients and that are
provided under the direction of a physician or a primary care
practitioner.For the purposes of this section, inpatient hospital
services exclude services in an institution for tuberculosis or mental diseases
unless authorized under an approved section 1115 waiver.
2.Outpatient health services that are ordinarily
provided in hospitals, clinics, offices and other health care facilities by
licensed health care providers. Outpatient health services include services
provided by or under the direction of a physician or a primary care
practitioner, including Occupational therapy.
3.Other laboratory and xray services ordered
by a physician or a primary care practitioner.
4.Medications that are ordered on prescription by a
physician or a dentist licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 11. Persons who
are dually eligible for title XVIII and title XIX services must obtain
available medications through a medicare licensed or certified medicare
advantage prescription drug plan, a medicare prescription drug plan or any other
entity authorized by medicare to provide a medicare part D prescription drug
benefit.
5.Medical supplies, durable medical equipment,
insulin pumps and prosthetic devices ordered by a physician or a primary care
practitioner. Suppliers of durable medical equipment shall provide the
administration with complete information about the identity of each person who
has an ownership or controlling interest in their business and shall comply
with federal bonding requirements in a manner prescribed by the administration.
6.For persons who are at least twentyone
years of age, treatment of medical conditions of the eye, excluding eye
examinations for prescriptive lenses and the provision of prescriptive lenses.
7.Early and periodic health screening and diagnostic
services as required by section 1905(r) of title XIX of the social security act
for members who are under twentyone years of age.
8.Family planning services that do not include
abortion or abortion counseling.If a contractor elects not to
provide family planning services, this election does not disqualify the
contractor from delivering all other covered health and medical services under
this chapter.In that event, the administration may contract
directly with another contractor, including an outpatient surgical center or a
noncontracting provider, to deliver family planning services to a member who is
enrolled with the contractor that elects not to provide family planning
services.
9.Podiatry services ordered by a primary care
physician or primary care practitioner.
10.Nonexperimental transplants approved for title
XIX reimbursement.
11.Ambulance and nonambulance transportation,
except as provided in subsection G of this section.
12.Hospice care.
13.Orthotics, if all of the following apply:
(a)The use of the orthotic is medically necessary
as the preferred treatment option consistent with medicare guidelines.
(b)The orthotic is less expensive than all other
treatment options or surgical procedures to treat the same diagnosed condition.
(c)The orthotic is ordered by a physician or
primary care practitioner.
B.The limitations and exclusions for health and
medical services provided under this section are as follows:
1.Circumcision of newborn males is not a covered
health and medical service.
2.For eligible persons who are at least twentyone
years of age:
(a)Outpatient health services do not include occupational therapy or speech
therapy.
(b)Prosthetic devices do not include hearing aids,
dentures, bone anchored bone-anchored hearing aids or
cochlear implants.Prosthetic devices, except prosthetic implants,
may be limited to twelve thousand five hundred dollars per contract year.
(c)Percussive vests and orthotics are not covered health and
medical services.
(d)Durable medical equipment is limited to items
covered by medicare.
(e)Podiatry services do not include services
performed by a podiatrist.
(f)Nonexperimental transplants do not include pancreasonly pancreasonly transplants.
(g)Bariatric surgery procedures, including
laparoscopic and open gastric bypass and restrictive procedures, are not
covered health and medical services.
C.The system shall pay noncontracting providers
only for health and medical services as prescribed in subsection A of this
section and as prescribed by rule.
D.The director shall adopt rules necessary to
limit, to the extent possible, the scope, duration and amount of services,
including maximum limitations for inpatient services that are consistent with
federal regulations under title XIX of the social security act (P.L. 8997;
79 Stat. 344; 42 United States Code section 1396 (1980)). To the extent
possible and practicable, these rules shall provide for the prior approval of
medically necessary services provided pursuant to this chapter.
E.The director shall make available home health
services in lieu of hospitalization pursuant to contracts awarded under this
article. For the purposes of this subsection, "home health services"
means the provision of nursing services, home health aide services or medical
supplies, equipment and appliances that are provided on a parttime or
intermittent basis by a licensed home health agency within a member's residence
based on the orders of a physician or a primary care practitioner. Home health
agencies shall comply with the federal bonding requirements in a manner
prescribed by the administration.
F.The director shall adopt rules for the coverage
of behavioral health services for persons who are eligible under section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a).The
administration shall contract with the department of health services for the
delivery of all medically necessary behavioral health services to persons who
are eligible under rules adopted pursuant to this subsection.The
division of behavioral health in the department of health services
the administration acting through the
regional behavioral health authorities shall establish a
diagnostic and evaluation program to which other state agencies shall refer
children who are not already enrolled pursuant to this chapter and who may be
in need of behavioral health services.In addition to an evaluation,
the division of behavioral health
administration acting through regional
behavioral health authorities shall also identify children who
may be eligible under section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision (a) or
section 362931, paragraph 5 and shall refer the children to the
appropriate agency responsible for making the final eligibility determination.
G.The director shall adopt rules for the provision of
transportation services and rules providing for copayment by members for
transportation for other than emergency purposes.Subject to
approval by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, nonemergency
medical transportation shall not be provided except for stretcher vans and
ambulance transportation.Prior authorization is required for
transportation by stretcher van and for medically necessary ambulance
transportation initiated pursuant to a physician's direction. Prior
authorization is not required for medically necessary ambulance transportation
services rendered to members or eligible persons initiated by dialing telephone
number 911 or other designated emergency response systems.
H.The director may adopt rules to allow the
administration, at the director's discretion, to use a second opinion procedure
under which surgery may not be eligible for coverage pursuant to this chapter
without documentation as to need by at least two physicians or primary care
practitioners.
I.If the director does not receive bids within the
amounts budgeted or if at any time the amount remaining in the Arizona health
care cost containment system fund is insufficient to pay for full contract
services for the remainder of the contract term, the administration, on notification
to system contractors at least thirty days in advance, may modify the list of
services required under subsection A of this section for persons defined as
eligible other than those persons defined pursuant to section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a). The director may also suspend services or may
limit categories of expense for services defined as optional pursuant to title
XIX of the social security act (P.L. 8997; 79 Stat. 344; 42 United
States Code section 1396 (1980)) for persons defined pursuant to section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a). Such reductions or suspensions do not apply to
the continuity of care for persons already receiving these services.
J.Additional, reduced or modified hospitalization
and medical care benefits may be provided under the system to enrolled members
who are eligible pursuant to section 362901, paragraph 6, subdivision
(b), (c), (d) or (e).
K.All health and medical services provided under
this article shall be provided in the geographic service area of the member,
except:
1.Emergency services and specialty services
provided pursuant to section 362908.
2.That the director may permit the delivery of
health and medical services in other than the geographic service area in this
state or in an adjoining state if the director determines that medical practice
patterns justify the delivery of services or a net reduction in transportation
costs can reasonably be expected. Notwithstanding the definition of physician
as prescribed in section 362901, if services are procured from a
physician or primary care practitioner in an adjoining state, the physician or
primary care practitioner shall be licensed to practice in that state pursuant
to licensing statutes in that state similar to title 32, chapter 13, 15, 17 or
25 and shall complete a provider agreement for this state.
L.Covered outpatient services shall be
subcontracted by a primary care physician or primary care practitioner to other
licensed health care providers to the extent practicable for purposes
including, but not limited to, making health care services available to
underserved areas, reducing costs of providing medical care and reducing
transportation costs.
M.The director shall adopt rules that prescribe the
coordination of medical care for persons who are eligible for system
services.The rules shall include provisions for the transfer of
patients, the transfer of medical records and the initiation of medical care.
N.For the purposes of this section,
"ambulance" has the same meaning prescribed in section 362201.
END_STATUTE

