







REFERENCE TITLE: mobile home, RV parks; prohibition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1362









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, Hobbs; Representatives Thorpe: Cobb, Coleman, Petersen





AN ACT

amending sections
33-1414 and 33-2106, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to mobile home and
recreational vehicle tenancies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1414, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1414.Prohibited provisions in rental agreements, rules; late
payment penalty
A.A rental agreement and any park rules or regulations, however denominated, shall
not provide that the tenant agrees to:
1.Waive or to forego forgo rights
or remedies under this chapter.
2.Pay the landlord's attorney fees, except an
agreement in writing may provide that attorney fees may be awarded to the
prevailing party in the event of court action.
3.The exculpation or limitation of any liability of
the landlord arising under law or to indemnify the landlord for that liability
or the costs connected therewith.
4.Permit the landlord to charge a penalty fee for
late payment of rent unless a tenant is allowed a minimum of five days beyond
the date the rent is due in which to remit payment.
5.Permit the landlord to charge a fee for a guest
who does not stay for more than a total of fourteen days in any calendar month.
6.Waive or limit the tenant's right to summon or
any other person's right to summon a peace officer or other emergency
assistance in response to an emergency.
7.Payment of monetary penalties or otherwise
penalizes the tenant for the tenant summoning or for any other person summoning
a peace officer or other emergency assistance in response to an emergency.
8.Place any
person's name on the title to the mobile home as a condition of tenancy or pay
a fee or other form of penalty for failing to place a person's name on the
title to the mobile home.
B.A provision that is prohibited by subsection A of
this section and that is included in a rental agreement or the rules or regulations of the mobile home park is
unenforceable.If a landlord deliberately uses a rental agreement or rules or regulations containing
provisions known to be prohibited, the tenant may recover actual damages
sustained and the rental agreement or
rules or regulations is
are voidable by the
tenant.
C.A landlord may charge a penalty fee of not to
exceed five dollars per day from the due date of the rent for late payment of
rent if the payment is not remitted by the sixth day from the due date.
D.This section does not limit the landlord's right
to evict a tenant pursuant to section 33-1476. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-2106, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-2106.Prohibited provisions in rental agreements, rules
A.A
rental agreement and any park rules,
however described, shall not provide that the tenant agrees to:
1.Waive
or forgo rights or remedies provided by law.
2.Place any
person's name on the title to the recreational vehicle as a condition of
tenancy or pay a fee or other form of penalty for failing to place a person's
name on the title to the recreational vehicle.
B.A
provision that is prohibited by subsection A of this section and that is
included in a rental agreement or the rules of the recreational vehicle park is
unenforceable.If a landlord deliberately uses a rental agreement or
rules containing provisions known to be prohibited, the tenant may recover
actual damages sustained and the rental agreement or rules are voidable by the
tenant. END_STATUTE

