







REFERENCE TITLE: rural and tribal infrastructure;
  development







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1386









Introduced by
Senator
  Begay





AN ACT

amending title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 20; amending title 41, chapter
27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 413026.01;
amending section 425029, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 42,
chapter 5, article 1, arizona revised statutes, by adding section 425031.02;
relating to rural and tribal infrastructure development.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 20, to read:
CHAPTER 20
RURAL ARIZONA AND TRIBAL INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLAN
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE41-2351.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Authority" means the rural Arizona
and tribal infrastructure authority established by section 412353.
2."Board" means the board of directors
of the authority.
3."Fund" means the rural Arizona and
tribal infrastructure revolving fund established by section 412356.
4."Infrastructure capital improvement
plan" or "plan" means the rural Arizona and tribal
infrastructure capital improvement plan established by section 412352.
5."Qualified project" means a project
approved by the authority under the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure
capital improvement plan to receive financial or other assistance under this
chapter.
6."Rural
Arizona and tribal community" means an Indian tribe in a county with a
population of less than three hundred thousand persons, a city or town in a
county with a population of less than three hundred thousand persons or a
county with a population of less than three hundred thousand persons. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2352.Rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure capital
improvement plan
The rural Arizona and
tribal infrastructure capital improvement plan is established to ensure
adequate financial resources for infrastructure development for rural Arizona
and tribal communities, to provide for the planning and development of
infrastructure in an efficient and cost-effective manner and to develop
infrastructure in rural Arizona and tribal communities to improve the quality
of life and stimulate economic development. The rural Arizona and tribal
infrastructure authority established by section 412353 shall administer
the plan. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2353.Rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority; board
of directors
A.The rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority is established. The authority,
through its board of directors, shall act as a central clearinghouse for the
rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure capital improvement plan and shall
administer and coordinate the plan, provide for a common application and
funding process, evaluate infrastructure project proposals and award grants,
financial assistance, technical assistance and loans to qualified projects from
monies available in the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund.
B.The board
of directors of the authority consists of eleven members who are appointed by
the governor as follows:
1.Two
members who represent rural counties with a population of less than three
hundred thousand persons.
2.Two
members who represent cities or towns in a county with a population of less
than three hundred thousand persons.
3.Seven
members who represent Indian tribes, one of whom is a member of a tribe with a
population in this state of more than fifty thousand persons.Each
tribe or tribal council may submit names of members of its tribe to be
considered for appointment to the board.
C.If the
governor fails to make an appointment to the board to fill a vacancy resulting
from expiration of a term or from the resignation or removal of a member within
six months after the date of the vacancy, the senate shall nominate and confirm
a member to fill the vacancy, except that for the members of the board
representing Indian tribes other than a tribe with a population in this state
of more than fifty thousand persons, the tribal council shall nominate the
member of the board to fill the vacancy.
D.The term
of office of each member of the board is four years, unless the member resigns
or is removed. The terms of six members expire on the first Monday in January
evennumbered years and the terms of five members expire on the first
Monday in January oddnumbered years. Each member of the board shall hold
office until the member's successor is appointed and qualifies. Appointment to
fill a vacancy caused other than by expiration of a term is for the unexpired
portion of the term. A member representing a tribe may be removed at the
request of that tribe or tribal council if the member's name was submitted by
that tribe or tribal council to be considered for appointment to the board. A
member of the board may not serve more than two terms.
E.The board
shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson who shall adopt rules for the
conduct of meetings. The board shall keep a record of all proceedings.
F.The board
shall meet at the call of the chairperson or whenever four members submit a
request in writing to the chairperson, but at least two times each calendar
year. A majority of members constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.The affirmative vote of at least a majority of a quorum of
the board is necessary for action to be taken by the authority.
G.Members
of the board are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2354.Powers and duties of the authority; rulemaking; definition
A.The rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority is a corporate and politic body and
shall have an official seal that is judicially noticed.The
authority may sue and be sued, contract and acquire, hold, operate and dispose
of property as necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this chapter.
B.The
authority, through its board, may:
1.Issue
negotiable infrastructure capital improvement bonds pursuant to section 412357
for the following purposes:
(a)To generate a state match for the rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund.
(b)To provide financial assistance
to rural Arizona and tribal communities for qualified projects under the plan
for Planning, designing, constructing, improving, expanding, acquiring or
equipping wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water facilities, nonpoint
source projects, major water systems, electrical power lines, communications
infrastructure, roads, health infrastructure, emergency response facilities and
infrastructure needed to stimulate economic development.
2.Provide
financial assistance pursuant to section 412362 to rural Arizona and
tribal communities for qualified projects under the plan for Planning,
designing, constructing, improving, expanding, acquiring or equipping
wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water facilities, nonpoint source
projects, major water systems, electrical power lines, communications
infrastructure, roads, health infrastructure, emergency response facilities and
infrastructure needed to stimulate economic development.
3.Provide grants, staff assistance, short-term assistance or
technical assistance in the form of a loan repayment agreement and other
professional assistance to rural Arizona and tribal communities in connection
with a qualified project. The board shall determine the form and terms of
assistance provided under a technical assistance loan repayment agreement. The
rural Arizona and tribal community shall repay the loan not more than three
years after the date the monies are advanced to the rural Arizona and tribal
community. The provision of technical assistance by the authority or its board
does not create any liability for the authority, its board or this state
regarding the design, construction or operation of any qualified project. For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)Shortterm
assistance represents an advance of financial assistance. The authority may
not provide shortterm assistance unless the borrower has an approved
financial assistance application on file with the authority.The
borrower shall repay shortterm assistance pursuant to a technical
assistance repayment agreement.
(b)The authority shall establish an
application process and method of determining the allocation of technical
assistance.
(c)Before technical assistance may
be provided, the board shall approve the application for technical assistance.
4.Guarantee
debt obligations of rural Arizona and tribal communities to finance
infrastructure projects under the plan.
5.Provide
linked deposit guarantees through third-party lenders to rural Arizona and
tribal communities that are issued to finance or refinance infrastructure
projects under the plan.
6.Apply
for, accept and administer grants and other financial assistance from the
United States government and from other public and private sources.
7.Enter
into capitalization grant agreements with the United States environmental
protection agency.
8.Approve
the projects that receive technical and financial assistance.
9.Approve
loan repayment agreements entered into with rural Arizona and tribal
communities.
10.Subject
to chapter 4 of this title, hire a director and staff for the authority.
11.Contract
for the services of outside advisors, attorneys, consultants, aides and other
professional assistance reasonably necessary or desirable to allow the
authority and its board to adequately perform its duties.
12.Contract
and incur obligations as reasonably necessary or desirable within the general
scope of the authority's activities and operations to allow the authority and
its board to adequately perform its duties.
13.Establish
accounts and subaccounts of the fund as necessary to properly account for and
use monies received by the authority.
14.Use
monies received in the fund pursuant to section 412356, subsection B,
paragraph 1 solely for securing bonds of the authority.
15.Use
monies received in the fund pursuant to section 412356, subsection B,
paragraphs 2 through 8 for:
(a)Providing technical assistance
to rural Arizona and tribal communities.
(b)Providing financial assistance
to rural Arizona and tribal communities.
(c)Paying the compensation and
employment-related expenses associated with the employees hired pursuant to
this section.
(d)Paying the costs to operate the
authority, administer the fund and carry out the requirements of this chapter.
(e)Paying the costs of professional
assistance hired by the authority pursuant to this section.
16.Assess
financial assistance origination fees and annual fees for administering the
authority and the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund. Any
fees collected pursuant to this paragraph may be used for any purpose
consistent with the mission and objectives of the authority.
17.Adopt rules
pursuant to chapter 6 of this title governing the application for and awarding
of financial assistance and other assistance for qualified projects pursuant to
this chapter, the administration of the fund and the issuance of infrastructure
capital improvement bonds.
C.The board
shall:
1.Administer
the fund in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
2.Approve
all policies and procedures of the authority.
3.Separately
account for monies received in the fund pursuant to section 412356 from
each source listed in section 412356, subsection B.
4.Not use
monies received in the fund pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 1 of this
section for any purpose except securing bonds issued by the authority and
providing assistance under technical assistance repayment agreements if the
amount used for providing this assistance is not more than eight hundred
thousand dollars.This paragraph does not limit the power of the
authority to pledge other monies in the fund to secure bonds issued by the
authority or to provide assistance under technical assistance repayment
agreements.
5.Deposit,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, any monies received
pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 5 of this section in the fund.
D.On notice
from the board, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund
as provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
E.If the
monies pledged to secure bonds issued under section 412357 become
insufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds, the board may
direct the state treasurer to divest monies in the fund as may be necessary and
may apply those proceeds to make current all payments then due on the
bonds.The state treasurer shall immediately notify the attorney
general and auditor general of the insufficiency.The auditor
general shall audit the circumstances surrounding the depletion of the fund and
shall report these findings to the attorney general. The attorney general shall
conduct an investigation and report these findings to the governor and the
legislature.
F.Disbursements
of monies by the board pursuant to a financial assistance agreement are not
subject to chapter 23 of this title.
G.For the
purposes of this section, "nonpoint source project" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 49-1201. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2355.Administrative support; annual report
A.The water
infrastructure finance authority of Arizona shall provide general
administrative support and office and meeting space for the rural Arizona and
tribal infrastructure authority and its board.
B.The rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority through its board shall submit a
written report to the governor, president of the senate and speaker of the
house of representatives not later than January 1 of each year providing an
account of its activities, including a copy of the annual audit of the fund
required by section 41-2356, subsection J. The authority shall submit a copy
of this report to the secretary of state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2356.Rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund;
monies; expenditures; audit
A.The rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund is established. The authority
through its board shall administer the fund in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
B.The fund
consists of:
1.Monies
transferred pursuant to section 425031.02, subsection A, paragraph 1.
2.Monies
received under section 412354, subsection B, paragraph 6.
3.Monies
received under section 412357.
4.Monies
received from the United States government to carry out this chapter.
5.Monies
received as loan repayments, technical assistance repayments, interest,
administrative fees and penalties.
6.Gifts,
grants and donations received from any public or private source to carry out
this chapter.
7.Interest
and other income received from investing monies in the fund.
8.Any other
monies received by the authority.
C.The board
shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, the monies
into the fund monthly.Monies in the fund are continuously
appropriated for the purposes of this chapter for providing financial
assistance, grants, technical assistance or loans for qualified projects under
the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure capital improvement plan. Monies
in the fund do not revert to the state general fund.
D.The board shall
separately account for monies received from each source listed in subsection b
of this section. Monies received pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 1 of this
section may not be used for any purpose except securing bonds issued by the
authority and providing assistance under technical assistance repayment
agreements if the amount used for providing this assistance is not more than
eight hundred thousand dollars.This subsection does not limit the
power of the authority to pledge other monies in the fund to secure bonds
issued by the authority or to provide assistance under technical assistance
repayment agreements.
E.The board may
establish accounts and subaccounts as necessary to properly account for and use
monies received by the authority.
F.Monies in the fund
received pursuant to subsection b, paragraphs 2 through 8 of this section may
be used for:
1.Providing technical
assistance to rural Arizona and tribal communities.
2.Providing financial
assistance to rural Arizona and tribal communities.
3.Paying the
compensation and employment-related expenses associated with the employees
hired pursuant to section 412354.
4.Paying the costs to
operate the authority, to administer the fund and to carry out the requirements
of this chapter.
5.Paying the costs of
professional assistance hired by the authority pursuant to section 412354.
G.On notice from the
board, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited
to the fund.
H.If the monies
pledged to secure the bonds issued under section 412357 become
insufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds, the board may
direct the state treasurer to divest monies in the fund as may be necessary and
may apply those proceeds to make current all payments then due on the
bonds.The state treasurer shall immediately notify the attorney
general and auditor general of the insufficiency.The auditor general
shall audit the circumstances surrounding the depletion of the fund and shall
report these findings to the attorney general.The attorney general
shall conduct an investigation and report these findings to the governor and
the legislature.
I.The
authority shall spend seventyfive percent of the monies in the fund on
exclusively tribal projects and twentyfive percent of the monies in the
fund on cooperative projects between a tribe and a city or town in a county
with a population of less than three hundred thousand persons or a county with
a population of less than three hundred thousand persons.
J.The authority through its board shall cause an
annual audit to be conducted of the fund, including all accounts and
subaccounts, by an independent certified public accountant within one hundred
twenty days after the end of each fiscal year.The authority shall
immediately file a certified copy of the audit with the auditor general. The
auditor general may make further audits and examinations as necessary and may
take appropriate action relating to the audit or examination pursuant to
chapter 7, article 10.1 of this title.If the auditor general takes
no official action within thirty days after the audit is filed, the audit is
considered to be sufficient.The authority shall pay all fees and
costs of the certified public accountant and auditor general under this
subsection from the fund. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2357.Infrastructure capital improvement bonds
A.The authority
through its board may issue negotiable infrastructure capital improvement bonds
in a principal amount that in its opinion is necessary to provide sufficient
monies for financial assistance under this chapter, maintaining sufficient
reserves to secure the bonds, to refund the bonds when the authority deems it
expedient to do so, to pay the necessary costs of issuing, selling and
redeeming the bonds and to pay other expenditures of the authority incidental
to and necessary and convenient to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
B.The
authority through its board shall authorize the bonds by a resolution that
prescribes:
1.The
rate or rates of interest and the denominations of the bonds.
2.The date or dates
of the bonds and maturity.
3.The coupon or
registered form of the bonds.
4.The manner of
executing the bonds.
5.The medium and
place of payment.
6.The terms of
redemption.
C.The authority shall
sell the bonds at a public or private sale at the price and on the terms
determined by its board.The authority shall deposit all proceeds
from the issuance of bonds, except any amounts used to pay costs associated
with the issuance and sale of the bonds, in the appropriate accounts of the
fund as specified in the resolution.
D.The authority shall
publish a notice of its intention to issue bonds under this chapter for at
least five consecutive days in a newspaper published in this state. The last
day of publication shall be at least ten days before issuing the bonds. The
notice shall state the amount of the bonds to be sold and the intended date of
issuance.The authority shall hand deliver or send, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the notice to the director of the
department of administration on or before the last day of publication.
E.To secure any bonds
authorized by this section, the authority by resolution of its board may:
1.Provide that bonds
issued under this section may be secured by a lien on all or part of the monies
paid into the appropriate account or subaccount of the fund.
2.Pledge or assign to
or in trust for the benefit of the holder or holders of the bonds any part or
appropriate account or subaccount of the monies in the fund as is necessary to
pay the principal and interest of the bonds as they come due.
3.Set aside, regulate
and dispose of reserves and sinking funds.
4.Provide that
sufficient amounts of the proceeds from the sale of the bonds may be used to
fully or partly fund any reserves or sinking funds set up by the bond
resolution.
5.Prescribe the
procedure, if any, by which the terms of any contract with bondholders may be
amended or abrogated, the amount of bonds the bondholders must consent to and
the manner in which consent may be given.
6.Provide for payment
from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds of all legal and financial services
incurred by the authority and board in issuing, selling, delivering and paying
the bonds.
7.Provide terms
necessary to secure credit enhancement or other sources of payment or security.
8.Do any other
matters that in any way may affect the security and protection of the bonds.
F.The authority, the
members of the board and any person executing the bonds are not personally
liable for the payment of the bonds. The bonds are valid and binding
obligations notwithstanding that before the delivery of the bonds any person
whose signature appears on the bonds ceases to be a member of the
board.From and after the sale and delivery of the bonds, they are
incontestable by the authority or its board.
G.The authority, out
of any available monies, may purchase bonds, which may be canceled, at a price
not exceeding either of the following:
1.If the bonds are
then redeemable, the redemption price then applicable plus accrued interest to
the next interest payment date.
2.If the bonds are
not then redeemable, the redemption price applicable on the first date after
purchase on which the bonds become subject to redemption plus accrued interest
to that date.
H.The bonds issued
under this section, their transfer and the income they produce are exempt from
taxation by this state or by any political subdivision of this state.
I.If a rural Arizona
and tribal community fails to make a payment due to the authority under its
loan repayment agreement or bonds, the authority shall certify to the state
treasurer and notify the governing body of the defaulting rural Arizona and
tribal community that the rural Arizona and tribal community has failed to make
the payment and direct withholding pursuant to subsection J of this section.
The authority may determine the form of the certificate of default, except that
the certificate shall specify the amount of money required to satisfy the
unpaid payment obligation of the rural Arizona and tribal community.
J.On receipt of a
certificate of default from the authority, the state treasurer, to the extent
not otherwise expressly prohibited by law, shall withhold an amount from the
defaulting rural Arizona and tribal community's next distribution of monies
pursuant to section 42-5029 and an amount from a defaulting city's or town's
next distribution of monies pursuant to section 43-206 necessary to meet the
certified amount of the deficiency. The state treasurer shall immediately
deposit in the fund the amount withheld.The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold distributions pursuant to sections 42-5029 and 43-206 and
deposit them into the fund until the authority certifies to the state treasurer
that the default has been cured.
K.Notwithstanding
subsection J of this section, the state treasurer shall not withhold from the
distribution of monies under section 42-5029 any amount, as certified by the
defaulting rural Arizona and tribal community to the state treasurer and the
authority, that is necessary to make any required deposits then due for payment
of principal and interest on bonds of the rural Arizona and tribal community
that have been secured by a pledge of the distribution. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2358.Bond obligations of the authority
Bonds issued
under this chapter are obligations of the rural Arizona and tribal
infrastructure authority, are payable only according to their terms and are not
obligations general, special or otherwise of this state. The bonds do not
constitute a legal debt of this state and are not enforceable against this
state. Payment of the bonds is not enforceable out of any state monies other
than the income and revenue pledged and assigned to, or in trust for the
benefit of, the holder or holders of the bonds. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2359.Certification of bonds by attorney general
The board may submit any
infrastructure capital improvement bonds issued under this chapter to the
attorney general after all proceedings for their authorization have been
completed. On submission the attorney general shall examine and pass on the
validity of the bonds and the regularity of the proceedings.If the
proceedings comply with this chapter, and if the attorney general determines
that, when delivered and paid for, the bonds will constitute binding and legal
obligations of the authority, the attorney general shall certify on the back of
each bond, in substance, that it is issued according to the constitution and
laws of this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2360.Infrastructure capital improvement bonds as legal
investments
Infrastructure capital
improvement bonds issued under this chapter are securities in which public
officers and bodies of this state and of municipalities and political
subdivisions of this state, all companies, associations and other persons
carrying on an insurance business, all financial institutions, investment
companies and other persons carrying on a banking business, all fiduciaries and
all other persons who are authorized to invest in obligations of this state may
properly and legally invest.The bonds are also securities that may
be deposited with public officers or bodies of this state and municipalities
and political subdivisions of this state for purposes that require the deposit
of state bonds or obligations. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2361.Agreement of state
This state pledges to and agrees
with the bondholders that this state will not limit or alter the rights vested
in the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority or any successor
entity to collect the monies necessary to produce sufficient revenue to fulfill
the terms of any agreements made with the bondholders, or in any way impair the
rights and remedies of the bondholders, until all bonds issued under this
chapter, together with interest, including interest on any unpaid installments
of interest, and all costs and expenses in connection with any action or
proceedings by or on behalf of the bondholders, are fully met and discharged.
The board as agent for this state may include this pledge and undertaking in
its resolutions and indentures securing its bonds. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2362.Financial assistance
A.The authority may
provide financial assistance to rural Arizona and tribal communities in
developing, acquiring, constructing, improving, equipping or refinancing
infrastructure.The financial assistance shall include:
1.Loans as provided
by this section.
2.Credit enhancements
purchased for a rural Arizona and tribal community bond or other form of
indebtedness.
B.A loan shall be
evidenced by a loan repayment agreement, lease purchase agreement or bonds of a
rural Arizona and tribal community that are delivered to and held by the
authority.
C.The authority shall
prescribe a principal repayment schedule for each loan made. Loan principal
payments may be rescheduled at the discretion of the authority.
D.A loan under this
section shall:
1.Be repaid not more
than thirty years after the date it is incurred.
2.Require that
interest payments begin not later than the next date that either principal or
interest must be paid by the authority to holders of any of the authority's
bonds that provided funding for the loan.The authority may provide
that loan interest accruing during construction of the borrower's
infrastructure project and up to one year after completion of the construction
be capitalized in the loan.
3.Be repayable in at
least annual principal installments and at least semiannual interest
installments.
4.Be conditioned on
the identification of pledged revenues for repaying the loan. If the
infrastructure financed by the loan is part of a municipal utility and the city
or town pledges revenues of the utility to repay the loan, the loan shall be
treated under section 9-530, subsection B as a lawful long-term obligation
incurred for a specific capital purpose.
5.To the extent
permitted by law, be secured by a debt service reserve account that is held in
trust and that is in such an amount, if any, as determined by the authority.
E.The authority shall
prescribe the rate or rates of interest on loans made under this section, but
the rate or rates may not exceed the prevailing market rate for similar types
of loans.A rural Arizona and tribal community may negotiate the
sale of its bonds to or a loan repayment agreement with the authority without
complying with any public or accelerated bidding requirements imposed by any
other law for the sale of its bonds.
F.The approval of a
loan is conditioned on a written commitment by the rural Arizona and tribal
community to complete all applicable reviews and approvals and to secure all
required permits in a timely manner.
G.The approval of
financial assistance to a city or town having a population of more than fifty
thousand persons is conditioned on approval of its voters. An election is not
required if voter approval has previously been received for substantially the
same project.
H.The approval of
financial assistance to a county having a population of more than two hundred
thousand persons is conditioned on approval of its voters. An election is not
required if voter approval has previously been received for substantially the
same project.
I.By resolution of
the board, the authority may impose any additional requirements it considers
necessary to ensure that the loan principal and interest are timely paid.
J.All monies received
from rural Arizona and tribal communities as loan repayments, interest and
penalties shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the
fund.
K.If a rural Arizona
and tribal community fails to make any payment due to the authority under its
loan repayment agreement or bonds, the authority shall certify to the state
treasurer and notify the governing body of the defaulting rural Arizona and
tribal community that the rural Arizona and tribal community has failed to make
the required payment and direct a withholding of state shared revenues as
provided in subsection L of this section. The certificate of default shall be
in the form determined by the authority, provided the certificate specifies the
amount required to satisfy the unpaid payment obligation of the rural Arizona
and tribal community.
L.On receipt of a
certificate of default from the authority, the state treasurer, to the extent
not otherwise expressly prohibited by law, shall withhold the monies from the
next succeeding distribution of monies pursuant to section 42-5029 due to the
defaulting rural Arizona and tribal community. In the case of a city or town,
the state treasurer shall also withhold from the next succeeding distribution
of monies pursuant to section 43-206 due to the defaulting city or town the
amount specified in the certificate of default and immediately deposit the
amount withheld in the fund. The state treasurer shall continue to withhold
and deposit the monies until the authority certifies to the state treasurer
that the default has been cured.The state treasurer may not
withhold any amount that is necessary, as certified by the defaulting rural
Arizona and tribal community to the state treasurer and the authority, to make
any required deposits then due for the payment of principal of and interest on
bonds of the rural Arizona and tribal community that were issued before the
date of the loan repayment agreement or bonds and that have been secured by a
pledge of distributions made pursuant to sections 42-5029 and 43-206. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-2363.Enforcement; attorney general
The attorney general may take
actions necessary to enforce the loan contract and achieve repayment of loans
provided by the authority pursuant to section 412362. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-3026.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3026.01.Rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority board;
termination July1, 2026
A.The rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority board terminates on July 1, 2026.
B.Title 41,
chapter 20 is repealed on January 1, 2027. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-5029, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5029.Remission and distribution of monies; definition
A.The department shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all revenues
collected under this article and articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter pursuant
to section 421116, separately accounting for:
1.Payments of estimated
tax under section 425014, subsection D.
2.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425070.
3.Revenues collected
under this article and article 5 of this chapter from and after June 30, 2000
from sources located on Indian reservations in this state.These revenues shall be distributed first as
prescribed by sections 425031.01 and 425031.02, and the remainder
of the revenues shall be distributed as otherwise required by this article.
4.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D.
B.The department shall
credit payments of estimated tax to an estimated tax clearing account and each
month shall transfer all monies in the estimated tax clearing account to a fund
designated as the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account.
The department shall credit all other payments to the transaction privilege and
severance tax clearing account, separately accounting for the monies designated
as distribution base under sections 425010, 425164, 425205
and 425353.Each month the department shall report to the
state treasurer the amount of monies collected pursuant to this article and
articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter.
C.On notification by
the department, the state treasurer shall distribute the monies deposited in
the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account in the manner
prescribed by this section and by sections 425164, 425205 and 425353,
after deducting warrants drawn against the account pursuant to sections 421118
and 421254.
D.Of the monies
designated as distribution base, and subject to the requirements of section 425041,
the department shall:
1.Pay twentyfive
percent to the various incorporated municipalities in this state in proportion
to their population to be used by the municipalities for any municipal purpose.
2.Pay 38.08 percent to
the counties in this state by averaging the following proportions:
(a)The proportion that
the population of each county bears to the total state population.
(b)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base
monies collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B,
section 425205, subsection B and section 425353 throughout the
state for the calendar month.
3.Pay
an additional 2.43 percent to the counties in this state as follows:
(a)Average
the following proportions:
(i)The proportion that
the assessed valuation used to determine secondary property taxes of each
county, after deducting that part of the assessed valuation that is exempt from
taxation at the beginning of the month for which the amount is to be paid,
bears to the total assessed valuations used to determine secondary property
taxes of all the counties after deducting that portion of the assessed
valuations that is exempt from taxation at the beginning of the month for which
the amount is to be paid. Property of a city or town that is not within or
contiguous to the municipal corporate boundaries and from which water is or may
be withdrawn or diverted and transported for use on other property is
considered to be taxable property in the county for purposes of determining
assessed valuation in the county under this item.
(ii)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base
monies collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B,
section 425205, subsection B and section 425353 throughout the
state for the calendar month.
(b)If the proportion
computed under subdivision (a) of this paragraph for any county is greater than
the proportion computed under paragraph 2 of this subsection, the department
shall compute the difference between the amount distributed to that county
under paragraph 2 of this subsection and the amount that would have been
distributed under paragraph 2 of this subsection using the proportion computed
under subdivision (a) of this paragraph and shall pay that difference to the
county from the amount available for distribution under this paragraph.Any
monies remaining after all payments under this subdivision shall be distributed
among the counties according to the proportions computed under paragraph 2 of
this subsection.
4.After any
distributions required by sections 425030, 425030.01, 425031,
425032, 425032.01 and 425032.02, and after making any
transfer to the water quality assurance revolving fund as required by section
49282, subsection B, credit the remainder of the monies designated as
distribution base to the state general fund.From this amount the
legislature shall annually appropriate to:
(a)The department of
revenue sufficient monies to administer and enforce this article and articles 5
and 8 of this chapter.
(b)The department of
economic security monies to be used for the purposes stated in title 46,
chapter 1.
(c)The
firearms safety and ranges fund established by section 17273, fifty
thousand dollars derived from the taxes collected from the retail
classification pursuant to section 425061 for the current fiscal year.
E.If approved by the
qualified electors voting at a statewide general election, all monies collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D shall be distributed each fiscal year pursuant to this
subsection.The monies distributed pursuant to this subsection are
in addition to any other appropriation, transfer or other allocation of public
or private monies from any other source and shall not supplant, replace or
cause a reduction in other school district, charter school, university or
community college funding sources.The monies shall be distributed
as follows:
1.If there are
outstanding state school facilities revenue bonds pursuant to title 15, chapter
16, article 7, each month onetwelfth of the amount that is necessary to
pay the fiscal year's debt service on outstanding state school improvement
revenue bonds for the current fiscal year shall be transferred each month to
the school improvement revenue bond debt service fund established by section 152084.The
total amount of bonds for which these monies may be allocated for the payment
of debt service shall not exceed a principal amount of eight hundred million
dollars exclusive of refunding bonds and other refinancing obligations.
2.After any transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, twelve per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the technology and research initiative fund established by section 151648
to be distributed among the universities for the purpose of investment in
technology and researchbased initiatives.
3.After the transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, three per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the workforce development account established in each community college
district pursuant to section 151472 for the purpose of investment in
workforce development programs.
4.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the amount a community college that is owned, operated or chartered by a
qualifying Indian tribe on its own Indian reservation would receive pursuant to
section 151472, subsection D, paragraph 2 if it were a community college
district shall be distributed each month to the treasurer or other designated
depository of a qualifying Indian tribe. Monies distributed pursuant to this
paragraph are for the exclusive purpose of providing support to one or more
community colleges owned, operated or chartered by a qualifying Indian tribe
and shall be used in a manner consistent with section 151472, subsection
B. For the purposes of this paragraph, "qualifying Indian tribe" has
the same meaning as defined in section 425031.01, subsection D.
5.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the following amounts shall be transferred each month to the department of
education for the increased cost of basic state aid under section 15971
due to added school days and associated teacher salary increases enacted in
2000:
(a)In fiscal year 20012002,
$15,305,900.
(b)In fiscal year 20022003,
$31,530,100.
(c)In fiscal year 20032004,
$48,727,700.
(d)In fiscal year 20042005,
$66,957,200.
(e)In fiscal year 20052006
and each fiscal year thereafter, $86,280,500.
6.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, seven million
eight hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the department of education to be used for school
safety as provided in section 15154 and two hundred thousand dollars is
appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in monthly installments to the
department of education to be used for the character education matching grant
program as provided in section 15154.01.
7.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, no more than seven
million dollars may be appropriated by the legislature each fiscal year to the
department of education to be used for accountability purposes as described in
section 15241 and title 15, chapter 9, article 8.
8.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, one million five
hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the failing schools tutoring fund established by
section 15241.
9.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, twentyfive
million dollars shall be transferred each fiscal year to the state general fund
to reimburse the general fund for the cost of the income tax credit allowed by
section 431072.01.
10.After the payment of
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1 through 9 of this subsection, the remaining
monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to the
classroom site fund established by section 15977. The monies shall be
allocated as follows in the manner prescribed by section 15977:
(a)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for teacher compensation based on performance.
(b)Twenty per cent
shall be allocated for increases in teacher base compensation and employee
related expenses.
(c)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for maintenance and operation purposes.
F.The department shall
credit the remainder of the monies in the transaction privilege and severance
tax clearing account to the state general fund, subject to any distribution
required by section 425030.01.
G.Notwithstanding
subsection D of this section, if a court of competent jurisdiction finally
determines that tax monies distributed under this section were illegally
collected under this article or articles 5 and 8 of this chapter and orders the
monies to be refunded to the taxpayer, the department shall compute the amount
of such monies that was distributed to each city, town and county under this
section. Each city's, town's and county's proportionate share of the costs
shall be based on the amount of the original tax payment each municipality and
county received. Each month the state treasurer shall reduce the amount
otherwise distributable to the city, town and county under this section by one
thirtysixth of the total amount to be recovered from the city, town or
county until the total amount has been recovered, but the monthly reduction for
any city, town or county shall not exceed ten per cent of the full monthly
distribution to that entity.The reduction shall begin for the first
calendar month after the final disposition of the case and shall continue until
the total amount, including interest and costs, has been recovered.
H.On receiving a
certificate of default from the greater Arizona development authority pursuant
to section 412257 or 412258 and to the extent not otherwise
expressly prohibited by law, the state treasurer shall withhold from the next
succeeding distribution of monies pursuant to this section due to the
defaulting political subdivision the amount specified in the certificate of
default and immediately deposit the amount withheld in the greater Arizona
development authority revolving fund.The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold and deposit the monies until the greater Arizona
development authority certifies to the state treasurer that the default has
been cured.In no event may the state treasurer withhold any amount
that the defaulting political subdivision certifies to the state treasurer and
the authority as being necessary to make any required deposits then due for the
payment of principal and interest on bonds of the political subdivision that
were issued before the date of the loan repayment agreement or bonds and that
have been secured by a pledge of distributions made pursuant to this section.
I.Except as provided by
sections 425033 and 425033.01, the population of a county, city
or town as determined by the most recent United States decennial census plus
any revisions to the decennial census certified by the United States bureau of
the census shall be used as the basis for apportioning monies pursuant to
subsection D of this section.
J.Except as otherwise
provided by this subsection, on notice from the department of revenue pursuant
to section 426010, subsection B, the state treasurer shall withhold from
the distribution of monies pursuant to this section to the affected city or
town the amount of the penalty for business location municipal tax incentives
provided by the city or town to a business entity that locates a retail
business facility in the city or town.The state treasurer shall
continue to withhold monies pursuant to this subsection until the entire amount
of the penalty has been withheld.The state treasurer shall credit
any monies withheld pursuant to this subsection to the state general fund as
provided by subsection D, paragraph 4 of this section. The state treasurer
shall not withhold any amount that the city or town certifies to the department
of revenue and the state treasurer as being necessary to make any required
deposits or payments for debt service on bonds or other longterm
obligations of the city or town that were issued or incurred before the
location incentives provided by the city or town.
K.On notice from the
auditor general pursuant to section 9626, subsection D, the state
treasurer shall withhold from the distribution of monies pursuant to this
section to the affected city the amount computed pursuant to section 9626,
subsection D.The state treasurer shall continue to withhold monies
pursuant to this subsection until the entire amount specified in the notice has
been withheld. The state treasurer shall credit any monies withheld pursuant
to this subsection to the state general fund as provided by subsection D, paragraph
4 of this section.
L.For
the purposes of this section, "community college district" means a
community college district that is established pursuant to sections 151402
and 151403 and that is a political subdivision of this state and, unless
otherwise specified, includes a community college tuition financing district established pursuant
to section 151409. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 42, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-5031.02, to read:
START_STATUTE42-5031.02.Distribution of revenues to rural Indian tribes for
infrastructure and community development; distribution of revenues to rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund; definition 
A.After any
distributions made pursuant to section 42-5031.01, the state treasurer shall
make distributions of the revenues collected under this article and article 5
of this chapter in the preceding month from all sources located on Indian
reservations in this state pursuant to section 425029, subsection A,
paragraph 3 to the rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund and
rural Indian tribes, as follows:
1.To the
rural Arizona and tribal infrastructure revolving fund established by section
41-2356, fifteen percent.
2.To be
distributed among the rural Indian tribes as provided by subsection B of this
section:
(a)For fiscal year 2016-2017, ten percent.
(b)For fiscal year 2017-2018, twenty percent.
(c)For every fiscal year after fiscal year
2017-2018, thirtyfive percent.
B.The
monies under subsection a, paragraph 2 of this section shall be distributed to
the treasurer or other designated depository of each rural Indian tribe as
follows:
1.Divide
the amount of revenues collected under this article and article 5 of this
chapter in the preceding month from each rural Indian tribe pursuant to section
425029, subsection a, paragraph 3 by the amount of revenues collected
under this article and article 5 of this chapter in the preceding month from
all rural Indian tribes pursuant to section 425029, subsection a,
paragraph 3.
2.Multiply
the amount of monies under subsection a, paragraph 2 of this section by the
quotient obtained under paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.For
purposes of the calculation of the revenue collected from a single rural Indian
tribe under this article and article 5 of this chapter under paragraph 1 of
this subsection, a rural Indian tribe that has a negative amount of revenues
collected shall be treated as having zero revenues collected.
C.Each
rural Indian tribe shall use the monies received under this section for
infrastructure development and community development projects, including
multipurpose buildings and roads on the Indian reservation that are located
within this state.
D.For the
purposes of this section, "rural Indian tribe" means an Indian tribe
in a county with a population of less than three hundred thousand persons. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Initial terms of members of the rural Arizona and tribal
infrastructure authority board
A.Notwithstanding section 41-2353, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, the initial terms of members of the rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority board are as follows:
1.For one member representing a county, one member
representing a city or town and four members representing Indian tribes, the
initial term ends in January 2019.
2.For the remaining members, the initial term ends
in January 2020.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.
Sec.6.Purpose
Pursuant to section 41-2955,
subsection E, Arizona Revised Statutes, the legislature establishes the rural
Arizona and tribal infrastructure authority board pursuant to section 41-2353,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, to administer the funding for
capital projects in rural Arizona and tribal communities.

