








REFERENCE TITLE: liquor omnibus







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1373









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending sections
4101, 4201, 4202, 4203, 4205.02, 4205.03,
4205.04, 4205.05, 4206.01, 4209, 4227, 4227.01,
4243, 4244 and 4251, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
liquor licenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 4-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Act of violence" means an incident
consisting of a riot, a brawl or a disturbance, in which bodily injuries are
sustained by any person and such injuries would be obvious to a reasonable
person, or tumultuous conduct of sufficient intensity as to require the
intervention of a peace officer to restore normal order, or an incident in which
a weapon is brandished, displayed or used. Act of violence does not include
the use of nonlethal devices by a peace officer.
2."Aggrieved party" means a person who
resides at, owns or leases property within a one mile radius of a premises
proposed to be licensed and who filed a written request with the department to
speak in favor of or opposition to the issuance of the license no later than
sixty days after the filing of the application or fifteen days after action by
the local governing body, whichever is later.
3."Beer" means any beverage obtained by
the alcoholic fermentation, infusion or decoction of barley malt, hops, or
other ingredients not drinkable, or any combination of them.
4."Board" means the state liquor board.
5."Bona fide guest" means:
(a)An individual who is personally familiar to the
member, who is personally sponsored by the member and whose presence as a guest
is in response to a specific and personal invitation.
(b)In the case of a club that meets the criteria
prescribed in paragraph 7, subdivision (a) of this section, a current member of
the armed services of the United States who presents proper military
identification and any member of a recognized veterans' organization of the
United States and of any country allied with the United States during current
or past wars or through treaty arrangements.
6."Broken package" means any container of
spirituous liquor on which the United States tax seal has been broken or
removed, or from which the cap, cork or seal placed thereupon by the
manufacturer has been removed.
7."Club" includes any of the following
organizations where the sale of spirituous liquor for consumption on the
premises is made to members only:
(a)A post, chapter, camp or other local unit
composed solely of veterans and its duly recognized auxiliary that has been
chartered by the Congress of the United States for patriotic, fraternal or
benevolent purposes and that has, as the owner, lessee or occupant, operated an
establishment for that purpose in this state.
(b)A chapter, aerie, parlor, lodge or other local
unit of an American national fraternal organization that has, as the owner,
lessee or occupant, operated an establishment for fraternal purposes in this
state.An American national fraternal organization as used in this
subdivision shall actively operate in not less than thirtysix states or
have been in active continuous existence for not less than twenty years.
(c)A hall or building association of a local unit
mentioned in subdivisions (a) and (b) of this paragraph, all of the capital
stock of which is owned by the local unit or the members, and that operates the
clubroom facilities of the local unit.
(d)A golf club that has more than fifty bona fide
members and that owns, maintains or operates a bona fide golf links together
with a clubhouse.
(e)A social club with more than one hundred bona
fide members who are actual residents of the county in which it is located,
that owns, maintains or operates club quarters, that is authorized and
incorporated to operate as a nonprofit club under the laws of this state, and
that has been continuously incorporated and operating for a period of not less
than one year.The club shall have had, during this one year period,
a bona fide membership with regular meetings conducted at least once each
month, and the membership shall be and shall have been actively engaged in
carrying out the objects of the club. The club's membership shall consist of
bona fide dues paying members paying at least six dollars per year, payable
monthly, quarterly or annually, which have been recorded by the secretary of
the club, and the members at the time of application for a club license shall
be in good standing having for at least one full year paid dues.At
least fiftyone per cent
percent of the members
shall have signified their intention to secure a social club license by
personally signing a petition, on a form prescribed by the board, which shall
also include the correct mailing address of each signer. The petition shall
not have been signed by a member at a date earlier than one hundred eighty days
before the filing of the application. The club shall qualify for exemption
from the payment of state income taxes under title 43.It is the
intent of this subdivision that a license shall not be granted to a club that
is, or has been, primarily formed or activated to obtain a license to sell
liquor, but solely to a bona fide club, where the sale of liquor is incidental
to the main purposes of the club.
(f)An airline club operated by or for airlines that
are certificated by the United States government and that maintain or operate
club quarters located at airports with international status.
8."Company" or "association",
when used in reference to a corporation, includes successors or assigns.
9."Control" means the power to direct or
cause the direction of the management and policies of an applicant, licensee or
controlling person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or a
partnership interest, by agreement or otherwise.Control is presumed
to exist if a person has the direct or indirect ownership of or power to vote
ten per cent percent or more of the
outstanding voting securities of the applicant, licensee or controlling person
or to control in any manner the election of one or more of the directors of the
applicant, licensee or controlling person. In the case of a partnership,
control is presumed to mean the general partner or a limited partner who holds
ten per cent percent or more of the voting
rights of the partnership.For the purposes of determining the
percentage of voting securities owned, controlled or held by a person, there
shall be aggregated with the voting securities attributed to the person the
voting securities of any other person directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by or under common control with the other person, or by an officer,
partner, employee or agent of the person or by a spouse, parent or child of the
person. Control is also presumed to exist if a creditor of the applicant, licensee
or controlling person holds a beneficial interest in ten per cent percent or more of the liabilities of the licensee or
controlling person.The
presumptions in this paragraph regarding control are rebuttable.
10."Controlling person" means a person directly
or indirectly possessing control of an applicant or licensee.
11."Craft distiller" means a distiller in
the United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that
holds a license pursuant to section 4-205.10.
12."Department" means the department of
liquor licenses and control.
13."Director" means the director of the
department of liquor licenses and control.
14."Distilled spirits" includes alcohol,
brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin, absinthe, a compound or mixture of
any of them or of any of them with any vegetable or other substance, alcohol
bitters, bitters containing alcohol, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and
any alcoholic mixture or preparation, whether patented or otherwise, that may
in sufficient quantities produce intoxication.
15."Employee" means any person who
performs any service on licensed premises on a fulltime, parttime
or contract basis with consent of the licensee, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor or
otherwise.Employee does not include a person exclusively on the
premises for musical or vocal performances, for repair or maintenance of the
premises or for the delivery of goods to the licensee.
16."Farm winery" means a winery in the
United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that holds a
license pursuant to section 4205.04.
17."Government license" means a license
to serve and sell spirituous liquor on specified premises available only to a
state agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community
college or state university or the national guard or Arizona coliseum and
exposition center on application by the governing body of a state agency, state
board, state commission, county, city, town, community college or state
university or the national guard or Arizona exposition and state fair board.
18."Legal drinking age" means twentyone
years of age or older.
19."License" means a license or an
interim retail permit issued pursuant to this title.
20."License fees" means fees collected
for license issuance, license application, license renewal, interim permit
issuance and license transfer between persons or locations.
21."Licensee" means a person who has been
issued a license or an interim retail permit pursuant to this title or a
special event licensee.
22."Manager" means a natural person who
meets the standards required of licensees and who has authority to organize,
direct, carry on, control or otherwise operate a licensed business on a
temporary or fulltime basis.
23."Microbrewery" means a brewery in the
United States or in a territory or possession of the United States that meets
the requirements of section 4205.08.
24."Offsale retailer" means any
person operating a bona fide regularly established retail liquor store selling
spirituous liquors, wines and beer, and any established retail store selling
commodities other than spirituous liquors and engaged in the sale of spirituous
liquors only in the original unbroken package, to be taken away from the
premises of the retailer and to be consumed off the premises.
25."Onsale retailer" means any
person operating an establishment where spirituous liquors are sold in the
original container for consumption on or off the premises or in individual portions
for consumption on the premises.
26."Person" includes a partnership,
limited liability company, association, company or corporation, as well as a
natural person.
27."Premises" or "licensed
premises" means the area from which the licensee is authorized to sell,
dispense or serve spirituous liquors under the provision of the license.
Premises or licensed premises includes a patio that is not contiguous to the
remainder of the premises or licensed premises if the patio is separated from
the remainder of the premises or licensed premises by a public or private
walkway or driveway not to exceed thirty feet, subject to rules the director
may adopt to establish criteria for noncontiguous premises.
28."Registered mail" includes certified
mail.
29."Registered retail agent" means any
person who is authorized pursuant to section 4222 to purchase spirituous
liquors for and on behalf of himself and other retail licensees.
30."Repeated acts of violence" means: two or more acts of violence occurring within seven days,
three or more acts of violence occurring within thirty days or acts of violence
occurring with any other similar frequency which the director determines to be
unusual or deserving of review.
(a)For all
licensed premises, two or more acts of violence occurring within seven days.
(b)For
licensed premises with a permanent occupancy of two hundred or fewer persons,
three or more acts of violence occurring within thirty days.
(c)For
licensed premises with a permanent occupancy of more than two hundred but not
more than four hundred persons, four or more acts of violence within thirty
days.
(d)For
licensed premises with a permanent occupancy of more than four hundred but not
more than six hundred fifty persons, five or more acts of violence within
thirty days.
(e)For
licensed premises with a permanent occupancy of more than six hundred fifty but
not more than one thousand fifty persons, six of more acts of violence within
thirty days.
(f)For
licensed premises with a permanent occupancy of more than one thousand fifty
persons, seven or more acts of violence within thirty days. 
31."Sell" includes soliciting or
receiving an order for, keeping or exposing for sale, directly or indirectly
delivering for value, peddling, keeping with intent to sell and trafficking in.
32."Spirituous liquor" includes alcohol,
brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin, wine, porter, ale, beer, any malt
liquor or malt beverage, absinthe, a compound or mixture of any of them or of
any of them with any vegetable or other substance, alcohol bitters, bitters
containing alcohol, any liquid mixture or preparation, whether patented or
otherwise, which produces intoxication, fruits preserved in ardent spirits, and
beverages containing more than onehalf of one per cent percent of alcohol by volume.
33."Vehicle" means any means of
transportation by land, water or air, and includes everything made use of in
any way for such transportation.
34."Vending machine" means a machine that
dispenses merchandise through the means of coin, token, credit card or other
nonpersonal means of accepting payment for merchandise received.
35."Veteran" means a person who has
served in the United States air force, army, navy, marine corps or coast guard,
as an active nurse in the services of the American red cross, in the army and
navy nurse corps in time of war, or in any expedition of the armed forces of
the United States, and who has received a discharge other than dishonorable.
36."Voting security" means any security
presently entitling the owner or holder of the security to vote for the
election of directors of an applicant, licensee or controlling person.
37."Wine" means the product obtained by
the fermentation of grapes,
or other agricultural
products containing natural or added sugar or cider or any such alcoholic beverage
fortified with grape brandy and containing not more than twentyfour per cent percent of alcohol by volume. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 4-201, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-201.Licensing; application procedure in city, town or county;
burden of proof
A.A person desiring a license to manufacture, sell
or deal in spirituous liquors shall make application to the director on a form
prescribed and furnished by the director.
B.A person desiring a license within an
incorporated city or town shall make the application in triplicate and shall
file the copies with the director.The director shall remit two
copies to the city or town clerk. The city or town clerk shall immediately
file one copy in the clerk's office and post the other for a period of twenty
days in a conspicuous place on the front of the premises where the business is
proposed to be conducted, with a statement requiring any natural person who is
a bona fide resident residing or owning or leasing property within a one mile
radius from the premises proposed to be licensed, and who is in favor of or
opposed to the issuance of the license, to file written arguments in favor of
or opposed to the issuance of the license with the clerk within twenty days
after the date of posting. The posting shall be limited to a copy of the
license application and shall not contain any attachments filed with the
application. The written argument shall contain the natural person's complete
name, street address or post office box address and written or electronic
signature. If the written arguments are filed by a person on behalf of a
corporation or other legal entity or association, the written arguments must be
accompanied by a copy of the entity's organizing document, a designation of the
office or position that the person holds within the organization and a copy of
the written appointment of the person to speak on behalf of the organization.
If the written arguments are filed by a neighborhood association, block watch
or other unincorporated association, written arguments must be accompanied by a
letter of authority designating that person as a spokesperson. The posting shall contain
substantially the following:
Notice
A hearing on a liquor license application shall be held
before the local governing body at the following date, time and place:
(Insert date, time and address)
The local governing body will recommend to the state liquor
board whether the board should grant or deny the license. The state liquor
board may hold a hearing to consider the recommendation of the local governing
body.Any person residing or owning or leasing property within a onemile
radius may contact the state liquor board in writing to register as a
protestor. To request information regarding procedures before the board and
notice of any board hearings regarding this application, contact the state
liquor board at:
(Insert address and telephone number).
No arguments shall be filed or accepted by the
city or town clerk thereafter. This subsection shall not be construed to
prevent a bona fide resident residing or owning or leasing
property within a onemile radius from the premises proposed to be
licensed from testifying in favor of or in opposition to the issuance of the
license, regardless of whether or not the person is a user or nonuser of
spirituous liquor.
C.The governing body of the city, town or county
shall then enter an order recommending approval or disapproval within sixty
days after filing of the application and shall file a certified copy of the
order with the director.If the recommendation is for disapproval, a
statement of the specific reasons containing a summary of the testimony or
other evidence supporting the recommendation for disapproval shall be attached
to the order. All petitions submitted to the governing body within the twentyday
period for filing protests shall be transmitted to the director with the
certified copy of the order.
D.If a person applies for a license to conduct a
spirituous liquor business outside an incorporated city or town, the director
shall remit two copies of the application to the clerk of the board of
supervisors of the county where the applicant desires to do business, and the
proceedings by the clerk and board of supervisors shall be as provided for
cities and towns.
E.On receipt of an application for a spirituous
liquor license, the director shall set the application for hearing by the board
on a date following the expiration of the time fixed for the submitting of the
certified order by the governing body of the city or town or the board of
supervisors. If the city or town or the county recommends approval of the license
no hearing is required unless the director, the board or any aggrieved party
requests a hearing on the grounds that the public convenience and the best
interest of the community will not be substantially served if a license is
issued. Any natural person residing or owning or leasing property within a one
mile radius of the proposed location may file a written protest with the
director no later than fifteen calendar days following action by the local
governing body or sixty days after filing the application, whichever is sooner. The written argument
shall contain the natural person's complete name, street address or post office
box address and written or electronic signature. If the written arguments
are filed by a person on behalf of a corporation or other legal entity or
association, the written arguments must be accompanied by a copy of the
entity's organizing document, a designation of the office or position that the
person holds within the organization and a copy of the written appointment of
the person to speak on behalf of the organization.If the written
arguments are filed by a neighborhood association, block watch or other
unincorporated association, written arguments must be accompanied by a letter
of authority designating that person as a spokesperson. If no hearing is requested by the director,
the board or any aggrieved party, the application may be approved by the
director. If the recommendation is for disapproval of an application, the
board shall hold a hearing. If the city, town or county recommends approval of
the license pursuant to subsection C of this section or makes no
recommendation, the director may cancel the hearing and issue the license
unless the board or any aggrieved party requests a hearing. If the reason for
the protest is clearly removed or deemed satisfied by the director, the board
shall cancel the hearing.If the board cancels the hearing, the
department may administratively issue an order without the applicant licensee
or other parties present. The certified order, the reasons contained in the
order and the summary of the testimony and other evidence supporting the city,
town or county disapproval of the recommendation shall be read into the record
before the board and shall be considered as evidence by the board.The
board shall consider the certified order together with other facts and a report
of the director relating to the qualifications of the applicant. If the
governing body of the city or town or the board of supervisors fails to return
to the director, as provided in subsections C and D of this section, its order
of disapproval, no hearing is required.An application shall be
approved or disapproved within one hundred five days after filing of the
application. If, after a hearing by the board where a license has been
approved, a formal written order is not entered within thirty days after the
hearing, the decision of the board shall be deemed entered on the thirtieth day
after the hearing.
F.A hearing may be conducted by an administrative
law judge at the request of the board to make findings and recommendations for
use by the board in determining whether to grant or deny a license. The
administrative law judge shall submit a report of findings to the board within
twenty days of after the
hearing.The board may affirm, reverse, adopt, modify, supplement,
amend or reject the administrative law judge's report in whole or in part.
G.Except for a person to person transfer of a
transferable license for use at the same location and as otherwise provided in section
4203, subsection A, in all proceedings before the governing body of a
city or town, the board of supervisors of a county or the board, the applicant
bears the burden of showing that the public convenience requires and that the
best interest of the community will be substantially served by the issuance of
a license.
H.In order to prevent the proliferation of
spirituous liquor licenses the department may deny a license to a business on
the grounds that such business is inappropriate for the sale of spirituous
liquor.An inappropriate business is one that cannot clearly
demonstrate that the sale of spirituous liquor is directly connected to its
primary purpose and that the sale of spirituous liquor is not merely incidental
to its primary purpose.
I.The board shall adopt, by rule, guidelines
setting forth criteria for use in determining whether the public convenience
requires and the best interest of the community will be substantially served by
the issuance or transfer of a liquor license at the location applied for.
These guidelines shall govern the recommendations and other approvals of the
department and the local governing authority.
J.If the governing body of a city or town
recommends disapproval by a twothirds vote of the members present and
voting on an application for the issuance or transfer of a spirituous liquor
license that, if approved, would result in a license being issued at a location
either having no license or having a license of a different series, the
application shall not be approved unless the board decides to approve the
application by a twothirds vote of the members present and voting. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 4-202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-202.Qualifications of licensees; application; background
information; prior convictions
A.Every spirituous liquor licensee, other than a
club licensee, a corporation licensee, a limited liability company licensee or
an outofstate licensee, shall be a citizen of the United States
and a bona fide resident of this state or a legal resident alien who is a bona
fide resident of this state. If a partnership, each partner shall be a citizen
of the United States and a bona fide resident of this state or a legal resident
alien who is a bona fide resident of this state, except that for a limited
partnership an individual general partner is required to meet the
qualifications of an individual licensee, a corporate general partner is
required to meet the qualifications of a corporate licensee and a limited
partner is not required to be a citizen of the United States, a legal resident
alien or a bona fide resident of this state.If a corporation or limited
liability company, it shall be a domestic corporation or a foreign corporation
or a limited liability company that has qualified to do business in this
state. A person shall hold a club license, corporation license, limited
liability company license, partnership license or outofstate
license through an agent who shall be a natural person and meet the
qualifications for licensure, except that an agent for an outofstate
license as specified in section 4209, subsection B, paragraph 2 need not
be a resident of this state.Notice
of change of agent shall be filed with the director within THIRTY days after a
change. For the purposes of this subsection, "agent"
means a person who is designated by an applicant or licensee to receive
communications from the department and to file documents and sign documents for
filing with the department on behalf of the applicant or licensee.
B.A person shall file an application for a
spirituous liquor license on a form prescribed by the director.The
director shall require any applicant and may require any controlling person,
other than a bank or licensed lending institution, to furnish background
information and to submit a full set of fingerprints to the
department.The department of liquor licenses and control shall
submit the fingerprints to the department of public safety for the purpose of
obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750
and Public Law 92544.The department of public safety may
exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of
investigation.If a license is issued or transferred when fees are
waived pursuant to section 4209, subsection I, no additional background
check is required if the person has already completed a background
investigation in connection with the continuing business.
C.Each applicant or licensee shall designate a
person who shall be responsible for managing the premises. The designated
person may be the applicant or licensee.The manager shall be a
natural person and shall meet all the requirements for
licensure.The same person may be designated as the manager for more
than one premises owned by the same licensee.Notice of a change in
the manager shall be filed with the director within thirty days after a change.
D.No license shall be issued to any person who,
within one year before application, has had a license revoked.The
director shall not issue an interim permit or restaurant license to any person
who, at the same location, has been required to surrender a restaurant license
pursuant to section 4205.02, subsection D or section 4213 until
twelve months after the date of the surrender. No license shall be issued to
or renewed for any person who, within five years before application, has been
convicted of a felony, or convicted of an offense in another state that would
be a felony in this state. For a conviction of a corporation to be a basis for
a denial under the provisions of
this section, the limitations that are provided in section 4210,
subsection A, paragraph 8 shall apply.No corporation shall have its
annual license issued or renewed unless it has on file with the department a
list of its officers and directors and any stockholders who own ten per cent percent or more of the corporation.
E.The department of liquor licenses and control
shall receive criminal history record information from the department of public
safety for applicants for employment with the department of liquor licenses and
control or for a license issued by the department of liquor licenses and control.
F.The department shall not issue or renew a license
for any person who on the request of the director fails to provide the
department with complete financial disclosure statements indicating all
financial holdings of the person or any other person in or relating to the
license applied for, including all cosignatories on financial holdings, land,
buildings, leases or other forms of indebtedness that the applicant has
incurred or will incur. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 4-203, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-203.Licenses; issuance; transfer; reversion to state
A.A spirituous liquor license shall be issued only
after satisfactory showing of the capability, qualifications and reliability of
the applicant and, with the exception of wholesaler, producer, government or
club licensees, that the public convenience requires and that the best interest
of the community will be substantially served by the issuance.If an
application is filed for the issuance of a transferable or nontransferable
license, other than for a craft distiller license, a microbrewery license or a
farm winery license, for a location that on the date the application is filed
has a valid license of the same series, or in the case of a restaurant license
application filed for a location with a valid hotelmotel license, issued
at that location, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the public
convenience and best interest of the community at that location was established
at the time the location was previously licensed.The presumption
may be rebutted by competent contrary evidence. The presumption shall not
apply once the licensed location has not been in use for more than one hundred
eighty days and the presumption shall not extend to the personal qualifications
of the applicant.
B.The license shall be to manufacture, sell or deal
in spirituous liquors only at the place and in the manner provided in the
license.A separate license shall be issued for each specific
business, and each shall specify:
1.The particular spirituous liquors that the
licensee is authorized to manufacture, sell or deal in.
2.The place of business for which issued.
3.The purpose for which the liquors may be
manufactured or sold.
C.A spirituous liquor license issued to a bar, a
liquor store or a beer and wine bar shall be transferable as to any permitted
location within the same county, provided such transfer meets the requirements
of an original application. A spirituous liquor license may be transferred to
a person qualified to be a licensee, provided such transfer is pursuant to
either judicial decree, nonjudicial foreclosure of a legal or equitable lien,
including security interests held by financial institutions pursuant to section
4205.05, a sale of the license, a bona fide sale of the entire business
and stock in trade, or such other bona fide transactions as may be provided for
by rule. Any change in ownership of the business of a licensee, directly or
indirectly, as defined by rule is deemed a transfer.
D.All applications for a new license pursuant to
section 4201 or for a transfer to a new location pursuant to subsection
C of this section shall be filed with and determined by the director, except
when the governing body of the city or town or the board of supervisors
receiving an application pursuant to section 4201 orders disapproval of
the application or makes no
recommendation or when the director, the state liquor board or
any aggrieved party requests a hearing. The application shall then
be presented to the state liquor board, and the new license or transfer shall
not become effective unless approved by the state liquor board.
E.A person who assigns, surrenders, transfers or
sells control of a liquor license or business that has a spirituous liquor
license shall notify the director within thirty business days after the
assignment, surrender, transfer or sale.No spirituous liquor
license shall be leased or subleased. A concession agreement entered into under
section 4205.03 is not considered a lease or sublease in violation of
this section.
F.If a person other than those persons originally
licensed acquires control over a license or licensee, the person shall file
notice of the acquisition with the director within thirty business days after
the acquisition of control and a list of officers, directors or other
controlling persons on a form prescribed by the director. All officers,
directors or other controlling persons shall meet the qualifications for
licensure as prescribed by this title.On request, the director shall conduct a preinvestigation
before the assignment, sale or transfer of control of a license or licensee,
the reasonable costs of which, not to exceed one thousand dollars, shall be
borne by the applicant.The preinvestigation shall determine whether
the qualifications for licensure as prescribed by this title are met. On
receipt of notice of an acquisition of control or request of a preinvestigation,
the director shall forward the notice within fifteen days to the local
governing body of the city or town, if the licensed premises is in an
incorporated area, or the county, if the licensed premises is in an
unincorporated area. The local governing body of the city, town or county may
protest the acquisition of control within sixty days based on the capability,
reliability and qualification of the person acquiring control. If the director
does not receive any protests, The director may protest the acquisition
of control or approve the acquisition of control based on the capability,
reliability and qualification of the person acquiring control. Any the
protest shall be set for a hearing before the
board.Any transfer shall be approved or disapproved within one
hundred five days of after the filing of the notice
of acquisition of control. The person who has acquired control of a license or
licensee has the burden of an original application at the hearing, and the
board shall make its determination pursuant to section 4202 and this
section with respect to capability, reliability and qualification.
G.A licensee who holds a license in nonuse status
for more than five months shall be required to pay a one hundred dollar
surcharge for each month thereafter. The surcharge shall be paid at the time
the license is returned to active status. A license automatically reverts to
the state after being held in continuous nonuse in excess of thirtysix
months.The director may waive the surcharge and may extend the time
period provided in this subsection for good cause. A license shall not be
deemed to have gone into active status if the license is transferred to a
location that at the time of or immediately before the transfer had an active
license of the same type, unless the licenses are under common ownership or
control.
H.A restructuring of a licensee's business is an
acquisition of control pursuant to subsection F of this section and is a
transfer of a spirituous liquor license and not the issuance of a new
spirituous liquor license if both of the following apply:
1.All of the controlling persons of the licensee
and the new business entity are identical.
2.There is no change in control or beneficial
ownership.
I.If subsection H of this section applies, the
licensee's history of violations of this title is the history of the new
business entity.The director may prescribe a form and shall require
the applicant to provide the necessary information to ensure compliance with
this subsection and subsections F and G of this section.
J.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the
holder of a retail license having offsale privileges may deliver
spirituous liquor off of the licensed premises in connection with the sale of
spirituous liquor. The licensee may maintain a delivery service and shall be
liable for any violation committed in connection with any sale or delivery of
spirituous liquor, provided that such delivery is made by an employee who is at
least twentyone years of age.The retail licensee shall
collect payment for the price of the spirituous liquor no later than at the
time of delivery.The director shall adopt rules that set
operational limits for the delivery of spirituous liquors by the holder of a
retail license having offsale privileges. For the purposes of this
subsection, an independent contractor or the employee of an independent
contractor is deemed to be an employee of the licensee when making a sale or
delivery of spirituous liquor for the licensee.
K.Except as provided in subsection J of this
section, Arizona licensees may transport spirituous liquors for themselves in
vehicles owned, leased or rented by such licensee.
L.Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, an
offsale retail licensee may provide consumer tasting of wines off of the
licensed premises.
M.The director may adopt reasonable rules to
protect the public interest and prevent abuse by licensees of the activities
permitted such licensees by subsections J and L of this section.
N.Failure to pay any surcharge prescribed by
subsection G of this section or failure to report the period of nonuse of a
license shall be grounds for revocation of the license or grounds for any other
sanction provided by this title.The director may consider
extenuating circumstances if control of the license is acquired by another
party in determining whether or not to impose any sanctions under this
subsection.
O.If a licensed location has not been in use for
two years, the location must requalify for a license pursuant to subsection A
of this section and shall meet the same qualifications required for issuance of
a new license except when the director deems that the nonuse of the location
was due to circumstances beyond the licensee's control.
P.If the licensee's interest is forfeited pursuant
to section 4210, subsection L, the location shall requalify for a
license pursuant to subsection A of this section and shall meet the same
qualifications required for issuance of a new license except when a bona fide
lienholder demonstrates mitigation pursuant to section 4210, subsection
K.
Q.The director may implement a procedure for the
issuance of a license with a licensing period of two years. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
4-205.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-205.02.Restaurant license; issuance; regulatory provisions;
expiration; definitions
A.The director may
issue a restaurant license to any restaurant in this state that is regularly
open for the serving of food to guests for compensation and that has suitable
kitchen facilities connected with the restaurant for keeping, cooking and
preparing foods required for ordinary meals.
B.The director shall issue the license in the name
of the restaurant upon on application for the license
by the owner or lessee of the restaurant, provided the applicant is otherwise
qualified to hold a spirituous liquor license.The holder of such
license is subject to the penalties prescribed for any violation of the law
relating to alcoholic beverages.
C.The holder of a restaurant license may sell and
serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the licensed premises. For
the purpose of this subsection, "licensed premises" may include
rooms, areas or locations in which the restaurant normally sells or serves
spirituous liquors pursuant to regular operating procedures and practices and
that are contiguous to the restaurant or a noncontiguous patio pursuant to section
4101, paragraph 2627.For the
purposes of this subsection, a restaurant licensee must submit proof of tenancy
or permission from the landowner or lessor for all property to be included in
the licensed premises.
D.In addition to other grounds prescribed in this
title on which a license may be revoked, the director may require the holder of
a restaurant license issued pursuant to this section to surrender the license
in any case in which the licensee ceases to operate as a restaurant, as
prescribed in subsection A of this section. The surrender of a license
pursuant to this subsection does not prevent the director from revoking the
license for other grounds prescribed in this title or for making deliberate
material misrepresentations to the department regarding the licensee's
equipment, service or entertainment items or seating capacity in applying for
the restaurant license.
E.Neither the director nor the board may initially
issue a restaurant license if either finds that there is sufficient evidence
that the operation will not satisfy the criteria adopted by the director for
issuing a restaurant license described in section 4209, subsection B,
paragraph 12. The director shall issue a restaurant license only if the
applicant has submitted a plan for the operation of the
restaurant.The plan shall be completed on forms provided by the
department and shall include listings of all restaurant equipment and service
items, the restaurant seating capacity and other information requested by the
department to substantiate that the restaurant will operate in compliance with
this section.
F.The holder of the license described in section 4209,
subsection B, paragraph 12 who intends to alter the seating capacity or
dimensions of a restaurant facility shall notify the department in advance on
forms provided by the department.
G.The director may charge a fee for site
inspections conducted before the issuance of a restaurant license.
H.A
RESTAURANT APPLICANT OR LICENSEE MAY APPLY FOR A PERMIT ALLOWING FOR THE SALE OF
BEER FOR CONSUMPTION OFF THE LICENSED PREMISES PURSUANT TO SECTION 4-244,
paragraph 32, subdivision (c) ON A FORM PRESCRIBED AND FURNISHED BY THE
DIRECTOR.AFTER THE PERMIT HAS BEEN ISSUED, THE PERMIT SHALL BE
NOTED ON THE LICENSE itself AND IN THE RECORDS OF THE DEPARTMENT. THE DIRECTOR
MAY CHARGE A FEE FOR PROCESSING THE APPLICATION FOR THE PERMIT AND A RENEWAL
FEE.
H.I.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Gross revenue" means the revenue
derived from all sales of food and spirituous liquor on the licensed premises,
regardless of whether the sales of spirituous liquor are made under a
restaurant license issued pursuant to this section or under any other license
that has been issued for the premises pursuant to this article.
2."Restaurant" means an establishment
that derives at least forty per cent
percent of its gross
revenue from the sale of food, including sales of food for consumption off the
licensed premises if the amount of these sales included in the calculation of
gross revenue from the sale of food does not exceed fifteen per cent percent of all gross revenue of the restaurant. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 4-205.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-205.03.Government license; issuance; regulatory provisions;
agreements with coliseum concessionaires; definitions
A.The department may issue a government license to
any state agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community
college or state university, the national guard or the Arizona exposition and
state fair board on application authorized by the governing body of the state
agency, state board, state commission, county, city, town, community college or
state university, the national guard or the Arizona exposition and state fair
board.
B.If the department issues the license, it shall be
issued in the name of the state agency, state board, state commission, county,
city, town, community college or state university, the national guard or the
Arizona coliseum and exposition center.No application shall be
filed unless authorized by the respective governing body.The
application shall designate for each location a manager or other individual
responsible for administering the license.The state agency, state
board, state commission, county, city, town, community college or state
university, the national guard or the Arizona exposition and state fair board
shall give notice to the department within ten days of after
any change in the designee.The state agency, state
board, state commission, county, city, town, community college or state
university, the national guard or the Arizona coliseum and exposition center to
which a license is issued is subject to the fine or penalty prescribed for any
violation of the statutes relating to alcoholic beverages.
C.The holder of a government license may sell and
serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the premises for which the
license is issued.A separate license is required for each premises
on which spirituous liquors are served.A single premises licensed
under this section may consist of not more than one dock area that is
designated by a city or town and that is situated on a lake owned by the city
or town and not more than thirty boats that are operated on the
lake.A dock and boats that comprise a premises under this
subsection shall be operated in compliance with subsection G of this section.
D.A governing body in possession of a government license
may by appropriate legislation or rule authorize the use of the license
pursuant to a concession agreement approved by the governing body.
E.The department may adopt rules in order to
administer this section.
F.Any agreement entered into by the Arizona
exposition and state fair board allowing an indicated concessionaire to serve
alcoholic beverages pursuant to this section shall contain a provision
requiring the concessionaire to do both of the following:
1.Fully indemnify and hold harmless this state and
any of its agencies, boards, commissions, officers and employees against any
liability for loss or damage incurred either on or off state property and
resulting from the negligent serving of alcoholic beverages by the
concessionaire or the concessionaire's agents or employees.
2.Post a surety bond in favor of this state in an
amount determined by the Arizona exposition and state fair board to be
sufficient to indemnify this state against the potential liability or name this
state as an additional insured in a liability policy that provides sufficient
coverage to indemnify this state as determined by the Arizona exposition and
state fair board.
G.The following apply to the operation of a dock
and boats as a licensed premises pursuant to subsection C of this section:
1.Liquor may be sold only for consumption on the
premises in conjunction with consumption of food.
2.Liquor shall not be served or consumed on the
dock.Liquor shall not be served on a boat earlier than fifteen
minutes before the boat is scheduled to depart from the dock and shall not be
served after a boat returns to the dock.
3.A person shall not be served more than thirtytwo fifty ounces of beer, one liter of wine or
four ounces of distilled spirits at one
time while the person is on a boat.
4.A person shall not bring spirituous liquor onto a
boat other than liquor purchased by the licensee or a concessionaire for resale
under the provisions of
this title.
5.The pilot of each boat, all crew members and all
persons who sell or serve spirituous liquor on each boat are deemed employees
of the licensee for purposes of this title.
6.The pilot of each boat shall either have a
current and valid coast guard operator's license or shall have successfully
completed a safety and operator training course approved by the city or town.
7.Spirituous liquor shall not be served, consumed
or possessed by a customer on the boat between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
p.m.
8.All provisions of this title and rules adopted
pursuant to this title that are not inconsistent with this section apply to
sales and consumption of spirituous liquor on the licensed premises.
H.For the purposes of this section:
1."Arizona coliseum and exposition
center" includes all property under the control of the Arizona exposition
and state fair board as provided in section 31001.
2."Boat" means a seaworthy vessel that is
designed to carry and that is capable of carrying not less than fifteen nor
more than fortyfive passengers, that has a displacement of not more than
ten tons and that possesses a current coast guard certificate.
3."Community college" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 151401.
4."State university" means institutions
as described in section 151601. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 4-205.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-205.04.Farm winery license; issuance; regulatory provisions;
retail site; fee
A.The director may issue a farm winery license to
any person who meets the requirements of subsection C of this
section.Each location that engages in producing or manufacturing
these products must obtain a separate farm winery license.The licensee
may not transfer the farm winery license from person to person or from location
to location.
B.An applicant for a farm winery license, at the
time of filing the application for the license, shall accompany the application
with the license fee.Persons holding a farm winery license shall
report annually at the end of each calendar year, at such time and in such
manner as the director may prescribe, the amount of wine produced or
manufactured by them during the calendar year.In addition to any
provision of this title, if the total amount of wine produced or manufactured
during the year exceeds the amount permitted annually by the license, the
licensee shall apply for and receive a producer's license only upon on
surrender of the farm winery license or licenses.
C.A person may be licensed as a farm winery to sell
wine produced or manufactured if in a calendar year it produces at least two
hundred gallons and not more than forty thousand gallons of wine and if the
winery either holds a winery permit issued by the United States alcohol and
tobacco tax and trade bureau or has a contract pursuant to subsection E of this
section for the production or manufacturing of wine from grapes or other fruit
grown on at least five producing acres of land owned or controlled by the applicant
and the land has been devoted to fruit growing for at least three consecutive
calendar years.A licensed farm winery may make sales and deliveries
of wine only as specifically provided in this section and as follows:
1.A licensed farm winery may make sales and
deliveries of wine to wholesalers licensed to sell wine under this title.
2.A licensed farm winery may serve wine produced or
manufactured on the premises for the purpose of sampling the
wine.The wine may include wine produced pursuant to subsections D
and E of this section.
3.A representative of the licensed farm winery may
consume small amounts of the products of the licensed farm winery on the
premises for the purpose of sampling the wine.The wine may include
wine produced pursuant to subsections D and E of this section.
4.A licensed farm winery may sell to a consumer
physically present on the premises wine produced or manufactured on the
premises in the original container for consumption on or off the
premises.The wine may include wine produced pursuant to subsections
D and E of this section.
5.A licensed farm winery may purchase and sell wine
produced by another licensed farm winery for consumption on or off the premises
only if the retail sale is to a consumer physically present on the premises of
the farm winery, except that the sales of wine produced by another winery may
not exceed twenty per cent percent of the farm winery's
sales by volume.The percentage limitation shall not apply to wine
produced pursuant to subsections D and E of this section.
6.If the licensed farm winery is not otherwise
engaged in the business of a distiller, vintner, brewer, rectifier, blender or
other producer of spirituous liquor in any jurisdiction, the licensed farm
winery may hold licenses prescribed in section 4209, subsection B,
paragraph 12 on the licensed farm winery premises or other retail
premises.Except as provided in paragraph 5 of this subsection, the
licensed farm winery shall purchase all other spirituous liquor for sale at the
on-sale retail premises from wholesalers that are licensed in this state,
except that a licensed farm winery may:
(a)Purchase wine from other farm wineries pursuant
to paragraph 7 of this subsection.
(b)Make deliveries of the wine that the farm winery
produces to the farm winery's own commonly controlled retail licensed premises.
7.A licensed farm winery that produces not more
than twenty thousand gallons of wine in a calendar year may make sales and
deliveries of the wine that the licensed farm winery produces to on-sale and
offsale retailers.
8.Notwithstanding section 4244, paragraphs 3
and 7, an on-sale or off-sale retailer may purchase and accept delivery of wine
from a licensed farm winery pursuant to paragraph 7 of this subsection.
9.A licensed farm winery that produces not more
than twenty thousand gallons of wine in a calendar year may make sales and
deliveries of wine that the licensed farm winery produces to consumers off of
the licensed premises and that is ordered by telephone, mail, fax or catalogue,
through the internet or by other means if all of the following apply:
(a)The purchaser of the wine provided the licensed
farm winery with verification of the purchaser's legal age to purchase alcohol.
(b)The shipping container in which the wine is
shipped is marked to require the signature on delivery of an adult who is of
legal age to purchase alcohol and delivery confirmation.
(c)The wine is for personal use only and not for
resale.
(d)The wine is delivered by the licensed farm
winery or shipped by the licensed farm winery by a common carrier to a
residential or business address other than a premises licensed pursuant to this
title.
(e)The purchaser could have carried the wine
lawfully into or within this state.
(f)The delivery is made by a person who is at least
twenty-one years of age.
(g)The farm winery shall collect payment for the
price of the spirituous liquor no later than at the time of delivery.
10.A licensed farm winery may make sales and
deliveries as expressly permitted by sections 4203.03, 4203.04
and 4244.04.
D.On application by one or more persons, the
director may approve applications for grouping two or more farm winery licenses
at one location under a plan of alternating proprietorships if a licensed
winery has received approval of the alternating proprietorship by the United
States alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau and the participating wineries
operate under the regulations and guidelines that are issued by the United
States alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau. Each participating winery
shall be responsible for filing all reports that relate to its wine production
or manufacturing with the United States alcohol and tobacco tax and trade
bureau and the department. Only one
farm winery may conduct wine making activities at this location at a time.
E.A person otherwise qualified to receive a farm
winery license may enter into a custom crush arrangement where a licensed
winery produces or manufactures wine from grapes or other fruit supplied by the
person. The winery receiving the fruit shall be licensed by the United States
alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau and the department and shall be
responsible for filing all reports that relate to its wine production or
manufacturing with the United States alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau
and the department.Each person supplying the grapes or other fruit
shall first apply for and receive a farm winery license and shall report to the
department all volumes of wine from its custom crush arrangements, which shall
not be allocated to the gallonage of the receiving farm winery if the supplying farm winery has an active basic permit
issued by the united states alcohol and TOBACCO tax and trade bureau.

F.On application by a farm winery licensee, the
director may authorize a farm winery licensee to operate up to two remote
tasting and retail premises if:
1.The wine sold at the premises is limited to wine
produced or manufactured by the licensed farm winery and wines produced or
manufactured by other licensed farm wineries, including wines produced or
manufactured pursuant to subsections D and E of this section. The farm winery
may sell wine to a consumer physically present on the premises for consumption
on or off the premises. Sales of wines not produced or manufactured by the
farm winery shall be limited to no more than twenty per cent percent of the total sales by volume at that location. The
percentage limitation shall not apply to wine produced pursuant to subsections
D and E of this section.
2.The farm winery
licensee:
(a)Remains
responsible for the premises.
(b)Obtains approval for the premises from the local
governing body before submitting an application to the department. A copy of
an order from the local governing body recommending approval of the premises
must be filed with the department as part of the application.
(c)Does not sublease the premises.
(d)Has an agent who is a natural person who meets
the qualifications of licensure in this state.
(e)Meets the qualifications for a license pursuant
to section 4-203, subsection A.
G.A farm winery licensee may hold a craft distillery distiller license issued pursuant to section 4205.10.
The farm wine winery and craft distillery distiller licensee may only produce distilled
spirits up to a gallonage of one thousand gallons in a calendar year from fruit
processed at the winery for the primary purpose of making wine. The farm wine winery and craft distillery distiller licensee is subject to all other
requirements of this section and section 4205.10. The farm winery may
provide sampling and sales of the distilled spirits pursuant to section 4205.10,
subsection C, paragraphs 2 and 3 on the same premises as the wine sampling and
retail sales.
H.The farm winery is liable for any violation
committed in connection with any sale or delivery of the wine. The rules
adopted by the director pursuant to section 4203, subsection J shall
apply to the delivery of wine under subsection C, paragraph 9 of this section.
An act or omission of any person who makes a sale or delivery of wine for a
licensee under subsection C, paragraph 9 of this section is deemed to be an act
or omission of the licensee for the purposes of section 4210, subsection
A, paragraph 9.
I.A farm winery that sells or delivers wine
pursuant to this section shall:
1.Pay to the department of revenue all luxury taxes
imposed pursuant to title 42, chapter 3 and all transaction privilege or use
taxes imposed pursuant to title 42, chapter 5.
2.File all returns or reports required by law.
J.A delivery of wine by a farm winery to a
purchaser in this state is a transaction deemed to have occurred in this state.
K.The director shall adopt rules in order to
administer this section.
L.The director may charge an additional farm winery
license fee adopted pursuant to section 4209 for the issuance of
licenses, authorizations or approvals pursuant to subsections D, E and F of
this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 4-205.05, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-205.05.Disposal of seized or recovered liquor
A.The director may issue a temporary permit
authorizing the disposal at public auction of spirituous liquor that has been
seized by any agency of this state, the federal government, any political
subdivision of this state, any financial institution as defined in section 6101
that has a security interest in a license or the federal government pursuant to
statute. A bid at a public auction shall not be accepted from a licensee if
the spirituous liquors offered for sale at the auction were seized from that
licensee.The director shall issue the permit only if presented with
proper documents of seizure by the appropriate official.The
director may dispose of seized spirituous liquor in whole or in part by public
auction, by providing the spirituous liquor to law enforcement for training and investigation purposes only, or both, or by authorizing a
qualified person to recycle the spirituous liquor.
B.Spirituous liquor with a stated expiration date
on the label shall not be offered for sale at public auction after the
expiration date and shall either be destroyed or disposed of as provided in this
section. The licensed wholesaler that distributes the spirituous liquor brand
in that sales territory may, but is not required to, accept a return of the
liquor at no cost for disposal or to enable it to be returned to the supplier. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 4-206.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-206.01.Bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses; number
permitted; fee; sampling privileges
A.The director shall determine the total number of
spirituous liquor licenses by type and in each county.The director
shall publish a listing of that information as determined by the director.
B.In each county, the director, each year, shall
issue additional bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses at the rate of
one of each type for each additional ten thousand person increase over the
population in that county as of July 1, 2010.Any licenses that have
been revoked or reverted in any county after July 1, 2014 may be reissued by
the director in the county of their issuance.The director may waive
the issuance of any series of new, revoked or reverted licenses in a county for
one year where there has been no request made to the department for the
issuance of a new license of that series.For the purposes of this
subsection, the population of a county is deemed to be the population estimated
by the office of employment and population statistics within the Arizona department
of administration as of July 1 of each year.
C.A person issued a license authorized by
subsection B of this section shall pay an additional issuance fee equal to the
license's fair market value that shall be paid to the state general fund. The
fair market value shall be defined to mean the mean value of licenses of the
same type sold on the open market in the same county during the prior twelve
months, but if there are not three or more sales then the fair market value
shall be determined by two appraisals furnished to the department by
independent professional appraisers employed by the director.
D.The director shall employ professional appraisal
services to determine the fair market value of bar, beer and wine bar or liquor
store licenses.
E.If more than one person applies for an available
license, a priority of applicants shall be determined by a random selection
method prescribed by the director.
F.After January 1, 2011, bar licenses and beer and
wine bar licenses shall be issued and used only if the clear primary purpose
and actual primary use is for on-sale retailer privileges. The off-sale
privileges associated with a bar license and a beer and wine bar license shall
be limited to use, which is clearly auxiliary to the active primary on-sale privilege.
A bar license or a beer and wine bar license shall not be issued or used if the
associated off-sale use, by total retail spirituous liquor sales, exceeds
thirty per cent percent of the sales price of
on-sale spirituous liquors by the licensee at that location. For dual licenses
issued pursuant to a single site or where a second license is issued to a site
that already has a spirituous liquor license, other than settlement licenses
issued as provided by law, the applicant shall have the burden of establishing
that public convenience and the best interest of the community will be served
by the issuance of the license.
G.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a beer and wine bar license simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a beer and wine bar license and a beer
and wine store license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time.The holder of each license shall fully
comply with all applicable provisions of this title.A beer and wine
bar license and beer and wine store license on the same premises shall be owned
by and issued to the same licensee.
H.The director may issue a beer and wine bar
license to the holder of a liquor store license issued simultaneously at the
same premises.An applicant for a liquor store license and a beer
and wine bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with
all applicable provisions of this title. A liquor store license and a beer and
wine bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.
I.The director may issue a restaurant license to
the holder of a beer and wine bar license issued simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both licenses at
the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with all
applicable provisions of this title. A restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.The limitation set forth in subsection F of this section
with respect to the offsale privileges of the beer and wine bar licenses
shall be measured against the on-sales of beer and wine sales of the
establishment. For the purposes of compliance with section 4205.02,
subsection H i, paragraph 2, it shall be
conclusively presumed that all on premises sales of spirituous liquors are made
under the authority of the restaurant license.
J.An applicant for a liquor store license or a beer
and wine store license and the licensee of a liquor store license or a beer and
wine store license may apply for sampling privileges associated with the
license.Beer and wine store premises shall contain at least five
thousand square feet in order to be eligible for sampling
privileges.A person desiring a sampling privilege associated with a
liquor store license shall apply to the director on a form prescribed and
furnished by the director. The application for sampling privileges may be
filed for an existing license or may be submitted with an initial license
application.The request for sampling approval, the review of the application
and the issuance of approval shall be conducted under the same procedures for
the issuance of a spirituous liquor license prescribed in section 4201.
After a sampling privilege has been issued for a liquor store license or a beer
and wine store license, the sampling privilege shall be noted on the license
itself and in the records of the department.The sampling rights
associated with a license are not transferable.The director may
charge a fee for processing the
each application for
sampling privileges and a renewal fee as provided in this section. A city or
town shall not charge any fee relating to the issuance or renewal of a sampling
privilege. Notwithstanding section 4244, paragraph 19, a liquor store
licensee or a beer and wine store licensee that holds a license with sampling
privileges may provide spirituous liquor sampling subject to the following
requirements:
1.Any open product shall be kept locked by the
licensee when the sampling area is not staffed.
2.The licensee is otherwise subject to all other
provisions of this title. The licensee is liable for any violation of this
title committed in connection with the sampling.
3.The licensed retailer shall make sales of sampled
products from the licensed retail premises.
4.The licensee shall not charge any customer for
the sampling of any products.
5.The sampling shall be conducted under the
supervision of an employee of a sponsoring distiller, vintner, brewer,
wholesaler or retail licensee.
6.Accurate records of sampling products dispensed
shall be retained by the licensee.
7.Sampling shall be limited to three ounces of beer
or coolertype products, one and one-half ounces of wine and one ounce of
distilled spirits per person, per brand, per day.
8.The sampling shall be conducted only on the
licensed premises.
K.If a beer and wine bar license and a beer and
wine store license are issued at the same premises, for the purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all spirituous beverages
purchased for sampling are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer
and wine bar license and all spirituous liquor sold off-sale are conclusively
presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store license.
L.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a bar license simultaneously at the same premises. An
applicant for a beer and wine store license and a bar license may consolidate
the application and may apply for both licenses at the same time. The holder
of each license shall fully comply with all applicable provisions of this
title. A beer and wine store license and a bar license on the same premises
shall be owned by and issued to the same licensee. If a beer and wine store
license and a bar license are issued at the same premises, for purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all off-sale beer and wine sales
are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store
license. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 4-209, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-209.Fees for license, application, issuance, renewal and
transfer; late renewal penalty; seasonal operation; surcharges
A.A fee shall accompany an application for an
original license or transfer of a license, or in case of renewal, shall be paid
in advance. Every license expires annually, except that a license may be
renewed for a twoyear period pursuant to subsection M of this section if
no compliance penalties have been issued to that location during the year
before the renewal. A licensee who fails to renew the license on or before the
due date shall pay a penalty of one hundred fifty dollars, which the licensee shall pay with the
renewal fee.A license renewal that is deposited, properly addressed
and postage prepaid in an official depository of the United States mail on or
before the due date shall be deemed filed and received by the department on the
date shown by the postmark or other official mark of the United States postal
service stamped on the envelope. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday
or other legal holiday, the renewal shall be considered timely if it is
received by the department on the next business day. The director may waive a
late renewal penalty if good cause is shown by the licensee. A licensee who
fails to renew the license on or before the due date may not sell, purchase or
otherwise deal in spirituous liquor until the license is renewed. A license
that is not renewed within sixty days after the due date is deemed
terminated.The director may renew the terminated license if good
cause is shown by the licensee.An application fee for an original
license or the transfer of a license shall be one hundred dollars, which shall
be retained by this state.
B.Issuance fees for original licenses shall be:
1.For an instate producer's license, to
manufacture or produce spirituous liquor in this state, one thousand five
hundred dollars.
2.Except as provided in paragraph 15 of this
subsection, for an outofstate producer's, exporter's, importer's
or rectifier's license, two hundred dollars.
3.For a microbrewery license, three hundred
dollars.
4.For a wholesaler's license, to sell spirituous
liquors, one thousand five hundred dollars.
5.For a government license issued in the name of a
state agency, state commission, state board, county, city, town, community
college or state university or the national guard, one hundred dollars.
6.For a bar license, which is an onsale
retailer's license to sell all spirituous liquors primarily by individual
portions and in the original containers, one thousand five hundred dollars.
7.For a beer and wine bar license, which is an onsale
retailer's license to sell beer and wine primarily by individual portions and
in the original containers, one thousand five hundred dollars.
8.For a conveyance license issued to an operating
railroad company, to sell all spirituous liquors in individual portions or in
the original containers on all passenger trains operated by the railroad
company, or to an operating airline company, to sell or serve spirituous
liquors solely in individual portions on all passenger planes operated by the
airline company, or to a boat operating in the waters of this state, to sell
all spirituous liquors in individual portions or in the original containers for
consumption on the boat, one thousand five hundred dollars.
9.For a liquor store license, which is an offsale
retailer's license to sell all spirituous liquors, one thousand five hundred
dollars.
10.For a beer and wine store license, which is an
offsale retailer's license to sell beer and wine, one thousand five
hundred dollars.
11.For a hotelmotel license issued as such,
to sell and serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the licensed
premises of the hotel or motel, one thousand five hundred dollars.
12.For a restaurant license issued as such, to sell
and serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the licensed premises of
the restaurant, one thousand five hundred dollars. FOR A PERMIT issued under section 4205.02, subsection
h ALLOWING FOR THE SALE OF BEER FOR THE CONSUMPTION OFF THE LICENSED PREMISES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4-244, paragraph 32, subdivision (c), THE DIRECTOR MAY CHARGE A FEE.
13.For a farm winery license, one hundred
dollars.The director may charge a licensed farm winery a fee
pursuant to section 4205.04, subsection D, E or F l.
14.For a club license issued in the name of a bona
fide club qualified under this title to sell all spirituous liquors onsale,
one thousand dollars.
15.For an outofstate winery that
sells not more than two hundred forty gallons of wine in this state in a
calendar year, twentyfive dollars.
16.The department may charge a fee for a craft
distiller license.
C.The department may issue licenses with staggered
renewal dates to distribute the renewal workload as uniformly as practicable
throughout the twelve months of the calendar year. If a license is issued less
than six months before the scheduled renewal date of the license, as provided
by the department's staggered license renewal system, onehalf of the
annual license fee shall be charged.
D.The annual fees for licenses shall be:
1.For an instate producer's license, to
manufacture or produce spirituous liquors in this state, three hundred fifty
dollars.
2.Except as provided in paragraph 15 of this
subsection, for an outofstate producer's, exporter's, importer's
or rectifier's license, fifty dollars.
3.For a microbrewery license, three hundred
dollars.
4.For a wholesaler's license, to sell spirituous
liquors, two hundred fifty dollars.
5.For a government license issued to a county, city
or town, community college or state university or the national guard, one
hundred dollars.
6.For a bar license, which is an onsale
retailer's license to sell all spirituous liquors primarily by individual
portions and in the original containers, one hundred fifty dollars.
7.For a beer and wine bar license, which is an onsale
retailer's license to sell beer and wine primarily by individual portions and
in the original containers, seventyfive dollars.
8.For a conveyance license issued to an operating
railroad company, to sell all spirituous liquors in individual portions or in
the original containers on all passenger trains operated by the railroad
company, or to an operating airline company, to sell or serve spirituous
liquors solely in individual portions on all passenger planes operated by the
airline company, or to a boat operating in the waters of this state, to sell
all spirituous liquor in individual portions or in the original containers for
consumption on the boat, two hundred twentyfive dollars.
9.For a liquor store license, which is an offsale
retailer's license to sell all spirituous liquors, fifty dollars.
10.For a beer and wine store license, which is an
offsale retailer's license to sell beer and wine, fifty dollars.
11.For a hotelmotel license issued as such,
to sell and serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the licensed
premises of the hotel or motel, five hundred dollars.
12.For a restaurant license issued as such, to sell
and serve spirituous liquors solely for consumption on the licensed premises of
the restaurant, five hundred dollars, and for a restaurant license that is
permitted to continue operating as a restaurant pursuant to section 4-213,
subsection E, an additional amount established by the director.The
department shall transfer this amount to the state treasurer for deposit in the
state general fund.
13.For a farm winery license, one hundred
dollars.The director may charge a licensed farm winery an annual
fee pursuant to section 4-205.04, subsection D, E or F l.
14.For a club license issued in the name of a bona
fide club qualified under this title to sell all spirituous liquors onsale,
one hundred fifty dollars.
15.For an outofstate winery that
sells not more than two hundred forty gallons of wine in this state in a
calendar year, twentyfive dollars.
16.The director may charge a fee for the annual
renewal of a craft distiller license.
E.Where the business of an onsale retail
licensee is seasonal, not extending over periods of more than six months in any
calendar year, the licensee may designate the periods of operation, and a
license may be granted for those periods only, on payment of onehalf of
the fee prescribed in subsection D of this section.
F.Transfer fees from person to person for licenses
transferred pursuant to section 4203, subsection C shall be three hundred
dollars.
G.Transfer fees from location to location, as
provided for in section 4203, shall be one hundred dollars.
H.Assignment fees for a change of agent, as
provided for in section 4202, subsection C A,
shall be one hundred dollars, except that where a licensee holds multiple
licenses the assignment fee for the first license shall be one hundred dollars
and the assignment fee for all remaining licenses transferred to the same or a new agent, or with the same acquiring party or parties,
shall be fifty dollars each, except that the aggregate assignment fees shall in
no event exceed one thousand dollars.
I.No fee shall be charged by the department for an
assignment of a liquor license in probate or an assignment pursuant to the
provisions of a will or pursuant to a judicial decree in a domestic relations
proceeding which that assigns ownership of a
business which that includes a spirituous
liquor license to one of the parties in the proceeding.In the case
of nontransferable licenses no fee shall be charged by the department for the
issuance of a license for a licensed business pursuant to a transfer of the
business in probate or pursuant to the provisions of a will or pursuant to a
judicial decree in a domestic relations proceeding which that
assigns ownership of the business to one of the parties in the
proceeding.
J.The director shall assess a surcharge of thirty
dollars on all licenses prescribed in subsection D, paragraphs 6, 7 and 12 of
this section. Monies from the surcharge shall be used by the department
exclusively for the costs of an auditor and support staff to review compliance
by applicants and licensees with the requirements of section 4205.02,
subsection E.The department shall assess the surcharge as part of
the annual license renewal fee.
K.The director shall assess a surcharge of thirtyfive
dollars on all licenses prescribed in this section. Monies from the surcharge
shall be used by the department exclusively for the costs of an enforcement
program to investigate licensees who have been the subject of multiple
complaints to the department.The enforcement program shall respond
to complaints against licensees by neighborhood associations, by neighborhood
civic groups and from municipal and county governments. The department shall
assess the surcharge as part of the annual license renewal fee.
L.The director shall assess a surcharge of twenty
dollars on all licenses prescribed in subsection D, paragraphs 11 and 12 of
this section and thirtyfive dollars on all other licenses prescribed in
this section. Monies from the surcharge and from surcharges imposed pursuant
to subsection K of this section shall be used by the department exclusively for
the costs of a neighborhood association interaction and liquor enforcement management
unit. The unit shall respond to complaints from neighborhood associations,
neighborhood civic groups and local governing authorities regarding liquor
violations.The director shall report the unit's activities to the
board at each board meeting or as the board may direct.
M.Licenses may be renewed every two years with
payment of license fees that are twice the amount designated in subsection D of
this section and other applicable fees. Licensees renewing every two years
must comply with annual reporting requirements. The director may adopt
reasonable rules to permit licensees to renew every two years. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 4-227, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-227.Qualified retail cooperatives; pricing; definitions
A.A wholesaler shall sell its product to a
qualified retail cooperative at prices established by the quantity of
spirituous liquor being purchased.
B.As used in this section:
1."Product" means a particular brand of
spirituous liquor in a designated size container or a mix of brands and
containers when sold on a combined basis established by the wholesaler that is
offered on quantity discount terms established by the wholesaler.
2."Qualified retail cooperative" means a
retail cooperative of two or more retail
licensees or licenses. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 4-227.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-227.01.Channel pricing; definition
A.The wholesaler may employ channel pricing to sell
its product to on-sale licensees at a different price than the wholesaler sells
its product to off-sale licensees. All channel pricing discounts must be:
1.Based on the volume of the product delivered
within a twentyfour hour period.
2.Made equally available to each retailer in that
retailer's channel.
b.IF AN
ESTABLISHMENT HAS MULTIPLE LICENSES AT THE SAME LOCATION AND THE licenses ARE
NOT FROM THE SAME CHANNEL, THE SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR SHALL BE SOLD UNDER THE
CHANNEL THAT REPRESENTS THE PRIMARY USE OF THE PREMISES.
B.c.For the purposes
of this section, "product" means a particular brand of spirituous
liquor in a designated size container or a mix of brands and containers when
sold on a combined basis as established by the wholesaler that is offered in
quantity discount terms established by the wholesaler. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 4-243, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-243.Commercial coercion or bribery
unlawful; exceptions
A.It is unlawful for a person engaged in the
business of distiller, vintner, brewer, rectifier or blender or any other
producer or wholesaler of any spirituous liquor, directly or indirectly, or
through an affiliate:
1.To require that a retailer purchase spirituous
liquor from the producer or wholesaler to the exclusion, in whole or in part,
of spirituous liquor sold or offered for sale by other persons.
2.To induce a retailer by any form of commercial
bribery to purchase spirituous liquor from the producer or wholesaler to the
exclusion, in whole or in part, of spirituous liquor sold or offered for sale
by other persons.
3.To acquire an interest in property owned,
occupied or used by the retailer in the retailer's business, or in a license
with respect to the premises of the retailer.
4.To furnish, give, rent, lend or sell to the
retailer equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, money, services or other things
of value, subject to such exception as the rules adopted pursuant to this title
may prescribe, having regard for established trade customs and the purposes of
this subsection.
5.To pay or credit the retailer for advertising,
display or distribution service, except that the director may adopt rules
regarding advertising in conjunction with seasonal sporting events.
6.To guarantee a loan or repayment of a financial
obligation of the retailer.
7.To extend credit to the retailer on a sale of
spirituous liquor.
8.To require the retailer to take and dispose of a
certain quota of spirituous liquor.
9.To offer or give a bonus, a premium or
compensation to the retailer or any of the retailer's officers, employees or
representatives.
B.This section does not prohibit any distiller,
vintner, brewer, rectifier, blender or other producer or wholesaler of any
spirituous liquor from:
1.Giving financial and other forms of event
sponsorship assistance to nonprofit or charitable organizations for purposes of
charitable fundraising that are issued special event licenses by the
department. This section does not prohibit suppliers from advertising their
sponsorship at such special events.
2.Providing samples to retail consumers at onsale
premises establishments according to the following procedures:
(a)Sampling operations shall be conducted under the
supervision of an employee of the sponsoring producer or wholesaler.
(b)Sampling shall be limited to twelve ounces of
beer or cooler products, six ounces of wine or two ounces of distilled spirits
per person per brand.
(c)If requesting the onsale retailer to
prepare a drink for the consumer, the producer's or wholesaler's representative
shall pay the retailer for the sample drink.
(d)The producer or wholesaler may not buy the onsale
retailer or the retailer's employees a drink during their working hours or
while they are engaged in waiting on or serving customers.
(e)The producer or wholesaler may not give a keg of
beer or any spirituous liquor or any other gifts or benefits to the onsale
retailer.
(f)All sampling procedures shall comply with
federal sampling laws and regulations.
3.Providing samples to retail consumers on an
off-sale retailer's premises according to the following procedures:
(a)Sampling shall be conducted by an employee of
the sponsoring producer or wholesaler.
(b)The producer or wholesaler shall notify the
department in writing or by electronic means not less than ten five
days before the sampling of the date, time and location of the
sampling and of the name of the wholesaler or producer distributing the
product.
(c)Sampling shall be limited to three ounces of beer,
one and onehalf ounces of wine or one ounce of distilled spirits per
person per day for consumption on the premises and up to seventy-two ounces of
beer and two ounces of distilled spirits per person per day for consumption off
the premises.
(d)An off-sale retailer shall not permit sampling
to be conducted on a licensed premises on more than twelve days in any calendar
year per wholesaler or producer.
(e)Sampling shall be limited to one wholesaler two wholesalers or producer producers at any one off-sale retailer's premises on any
day and shall not exceed three hours on any day per approved sampling.
(f)A producer conducting sampling shall buy the
sampled product from a wholesaler.
(g)The producer or wholesaler shall not provide
samples to any person who is under the legal drinking age.
(h)The producer or wholesaler shall designate an
area in which sampling is conducted that is in the portion of the licensed
premises where spirituous liquor is primarily displayed and separated from the
remainder of the off-sale retailer's premises by a wall, rope, door, cable,
cord, chain, fence or other barrier. The producer or wholesaler shall not
permit persons under the legal drinking age from entering the area in which
sampling is conducted.
(i)The producer or wholesaler may not provide
samples to the retailer or the retailer's employees.
(j)Sampling shall not be conducted in retail
premises with a total of under five thousand square feet of retail space unless
at least seventy-five per cent
percent of the retailer's
shelf space is dedicated to the sale of spirituous liquor.
(k)The producer or wholesaler may not give
spirituous liquor or any other gifts or benefits to the off-sale retailer.
(l)All sampling procedures shall comply with
federal sampling laws and regulations.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 4 of this
section, any wholesaler of any spirituous liquor may sell tobacco products or
foodstuffs to a retailer at a price not less than the cost to the wholesaler.
D.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 4, and
subsection B, paragraph 2, subdivision (e) of this section, any wholesaler may
furnish without cost promotional items to an on-sale retailer, except that the
total market value of the promotional items furnished by that wholesaler to
that retailer in any calendar year shall not exceed five hundred dollars. For
the purposes of this subsection, "promotional items" means items of
equipment, supplies, novelties or other advertising specialties that
conspicuously display the brand name of a spirituous liquor product.
Promotional items do not include signs.
E.It is unlawful for a retailer to request or
knowingly receive anything of value that a distiller, vintner, brewer,
rectifier or blender or any other producer or wholesaler is prohibited by
subsection A or D of this section from furnishing to a retailer, except that
this subsection shall not prohibit special discounts provided to retailers and
based on quantity purchases. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 4-244, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-244.Unlawful acts
It is unlawful:
1.For a person to buy for resale, sell or deal in
spirituous liquors in this state without first having procured a license duly
issued by the board.
2.For a person to sell or deal in alcohol for
beverage purposes without first complying with this title.
3.For a distiller, vintner, brewer or wholesaler
knowingly to sell, dispose of or give spirituous liquor to any person other
than a licensee except in sampling wares as may be necessary in the ordinary
course of business, except in donating spirituous liquor to a nonprofit
organization which that has obtained a special
event license for the purpose of charitable fund raising activities or except
in donating spirituous liquor with a cost to the distiller, brewer or
wholesaler of up to five hundred dollars in a calendar year to an organization
that is exempt from federal income taxes under section 501(c) (3), (4), (6) or
(7) of the internal revenue code and not licensed under this title.
4.For a distiller, vintner or brewer to require a
wholesaler to offer or grant a discount to a retailer, unless the discount has
also been offered and granted to the wholesaler by the distiller, vintner or
brewer.
5.For a distiller, vintner or brewer to use a
vehicle for trucking or transportation of spirituous liquors unless there is
affixed to both sides of the vehicle a sign showing the name and address of the
licensee and the type and number of the person's license in letters not less
than three and onehalf inches in height.
6.For a person to take or solicit orders for
spirituous liquors unless the person is a salesman or solicitor of a licensed
wholesaler, a salesman or solicitor of a distiller, brewer, vintner, importer
or broker or a registered retail agent.
7.For any retail licensee to purchase spirituous
liquors from any person other than a solicitor or salesman of a wholesaler
licensed in this state.
8.For a retailer to acquire an interest in property
owned, occupied or used by a wholesaler in the wholesaler's business, or in a
license with respect to the premises of the wholesaler.
9.Except as provided in paragraphs 10 and 11 of
this section, for a licensee or other person to sell, furnish, dispose of or
give, or cause to be sold, furnished, disposed of or given, to a person under
the legal drinking age or for a
person under the legal drinking age to buy, receive, have in the person's possession
or consume spirituous liquor. This paragraph shall not prohibit the employment
by an offsale retailer of persons who are at least sixteen years of age
to check out, if supervised by a person on the premises who is at least
nineteen years of age, package or carry merchandise, including spirituous
liquor, in unbroken packages, for the convenience of the customer of the
employer, if the employer sells primarily merchandise other than spirituous
liquor.
10.For a licensee to employ a person under nineteen
years of age to manufacture, sell or dispose of spirituous liquors. This
paragraph shall not prohibit the employment by an offsale retailer of
persons who are at least sixteen years of age to check out, if supervised by a
person on the premises who is at least nineteen years of age, package or carry
merchandise, including spirituous liquor, in unbroken packages, for the
convenience of the customer of the employer, if the employer sells primarily
merchandise other than spirituous liquor.
11.For an onsale retailer to employ a person
under nineteen years of age in any capacity connected with the handling of
spirituous liquors. This paragraph does not prohibit the employment by an onsale
retailer of a person under nineteen years of age who cleans up the tables on
the premises for reuse, removes dirty dishes, keeps a ready supply of needed
items and helps clean up the premises.
12.For a licensee, when engaged in waiting on or
serving customers, to consume spirituous liquor or for a licensee or onduty
employee to be on or about the licensed premises while in an intoxicated or
disorderly condition.
13.For an employee of a retail licensee, during
that employee's working hours or in connection with such employment, to give to
or purchase for any other person, accept a gift of, purchase for himself or
consume spirituous liquor, except that:
(a)An employee of a licensee, during that
employee's working hours or in connection with the employment, while the
employee is not engaged in waiting on or serving customers, may give spirituous
liquor to or purchase spirituous liquor for any other person.
(b)An employee of an on-sale retail licensee,
during that employee's working hours or in connection with the employment,
while the employee is not engaged in waiting on or serving customers, may taste
samples of beer or wine not to exceed four ounces per day or distilled spirits
not to exceed two ounces per day provided by an employee of a wholesaler or
distributor who is present at the time of the sampling.
(c)An employee of an on-sale retail licensee, under
the supervision of a manager as part of the employee's training and education,
while not engaged in waiting on or serving customers may taste samples of
distilled spirits not to exceed two ounces per educational session or beer or
wine not to exceed four ounces per educational session, and provided that a
licensee shall not have more than two educational sessions in any thirty day
period.
(d)An unpaid volunteer who is a bona fide member of
a club and who is not engaged in waiting on or serving spirituous liquor to
customers may purchase for himself and consume spirituous liquor while
participating in a scheduled event at the club. An unpaid participant in a
food competition may purchase for himself and consume spirituous liquor while
participating in the food competition.
(e)An unpaid volunteer of a special event licensee
under section 4203.02 may purchase and consume spirituous liquor while
not engaged in waiting on or serving spirituous liquor to customers at the
special event. This subdivision does not apply to an unpaid volunteer whose
responsibilities include verification of a person's legal drinking age,
security or the operation of any vehicle or heavy machinery.
14.For a licensee or other person to serve, sell or
furnish spirituous liquor to a disorderly or obviously intoxicated person, or
for a licensee or employee of the licensee to allow or permit a disorderly or
obviously intoxicated person to come into or remain on or about the premises, except
that a licensee or an employee of the licensee may allow an obviously
intoxicated person to remain on the premises for a period of time of not to
exceed thirty minutes after the state of obvious intoxication is known or
should be known to the licensee in order that a nonintoxicated person may
transport the obviously intoxicated person from the premises.For
the purposes of this section, "obviously intoxicated" means
inebriated to the extent that a person's physical faculties are substantially
impaired and the impairment is shown by significantly uncoordinated physical
action or significant physical dysfunction that would have been obvious to a
reasonable person.
15.For an onsale or offsale retailer
or an employee of such retailer to sell, dispose of, deliver or give spirituous
liquor to a person between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
16.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
any person on or about the licensed premises to give or furnish any spirituous
liquor to any person under twentyone years of age or knowingly permit
any person under twentyone years of age to have in the person's
possession spirituous liquor on the licensed premises.
17.For an onsale retailer or an employee of
such retailer to allow a person to consume or possess spirituous liquors on the
premises between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
18.For an onsale retailer to permit an
employee or for an employee to solicit or encourage others, directly or
indirectly, to buy the employee drinks or anything of value in the licensed
premises during the employee's working hours. No onsale retailer shall
serve employees or allow a patron of the establishment to give spirituous
liquor to, purchase liquor for or drink liquor with any employee during the
employee's working hours.
19.For an offsale retailer or employee to
sell spirituous liquor except in the original unbroken container, to permit
spirituous liquor to be consumed on the premises or to knowingly permit
spirituous liquor to be consumed on adjacent property under the licensee's
exclusive control.
20.For a person to consume spirituous liquor in a
public place, thoroughfare or gathering. The license of a licensee permitting
a violation of this paragraph on the premises shall be subject to
revocation.This paragraph does not apply to the sale of spirituous
liquors on the premises of and by an onsale retailer. This paragraph
also does not apply to a person consuming beer from a broken package in a
public recreation area or on private property with permission of the owner or
lessor or on the walkways surrounding such private property or to a person
consuming beer or wine from a broken package in a public recreation area as
part of a special event or festival that is conducted under a license secured
pursuant to section 4203.02 or 4203.03.
21.For a person to have possession of or to
transport spirituous liquor which
that is manufactured in a
distillery, winery, brewery or rectifying plant contrary to the laws of the
United States and this state. Any property used in transporting such spirituous
liquor shall be forfeited to the state and shall be seized and disposed of as
provided in section 4221.
22.For an onsale retailer or employee to
allow a person under the legal drinking age to remain in an area on the
licensed premises during those hours in which its primary use is the sale,
dispensing or consumption of alcoholic beverages after the licensee, or the
licensee's employees, know or should have known that the person is under the
legal drinking age.An onsale retailer may designate an area
of the licensed premises as an area in which spirituous liquor will not be sold
or consumed for the purpose of allowing underage persons on the premises if the
designated area is separated by a physical barrier and at no time will underage
persons have access to the area in which spirituous liquor is sold or
consumed.A licensee or an employee of a licensee may require a
person who intends to enter a licensed premises or a portion of a licensed
premises where persons under the legal drinking age are prohibited under this
section to exhibit a written instrument of identification that is acceptable
under section 4241 as a condition of entry.The director, or
a municipality, may adopt rules to regulate the presence of underage persons on
licensed premises provided the rules adopted by a municipality are more
stringent than those adopted by the director. The rules adopted by the
municipality shall be adopted by local ordinance and shall not interfere with
the licensee's ability to comply with this paragraph. This paragraph does not
apply:
(a)If the person under the legal drinking age is
accompanied by a spouse, parent or legal guardian of legal drinking age or is
an onduty employee of the licensee.
(b)If the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises
is a club as defined in section 4101, paragraph 7, subdivision (a) and
the person under the legal drinking age is any of the following:
(i)An active duty military service member.
(ii)A veteran.
(iii)A member of the United States army national
guard or the United States air national guard.
(iv)A member of the United States military reserve
forces.
(c)To the area of the premises used primarily for
the serving of food during the hours when food is served.
23.For an onsale retailer or employee to
conduct drinking contests, to sell or deliver to a person an unlimited number
of spirituous liquor beverages during any set period of time for a fixed price,
to deliver more than forty fifty ounces of beer, one liter
of wine or four ounces of distilled spirits in any spirituous liquor drink to
one person at one time for that person's consumption or to advertise any
practice prohibited by this paragraph.The provisions of this
paragraph do not prohibit an onsale retailer or employee from selling
and delivering an opened, original container of distilled spirits if:
(a)Service or pouring of the spirituous liquor is
provided by an employee of the onsale retailer.
(b)The employee of the onsale retailer
monitors consumption to ensure compliance with this paragraph. Locking devices
may be used, but are not required.
24.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
the unlawful possession, use, sale or offer for sale of narcotics, dangerous
drugs or marijuana on the premises. As used in this paragraph, "dangerous
drug" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
25.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
prostitution or the solicitation of prostitution on the premises.
26.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
unlawful gambling on the premises.
27.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
trafficking or attempted trafficking in stolen property on the premises.
28.For a licensee or employee to fail or refuse to
make the premises or records available for inspection and examination as
provided in this title or to comply with a lawful subpoena issued under this
title.
29.For any person other than a peace officer or a
member of a sheriff's volunteer posse while on duty who has received firearms
training that is approved by the Arizona peace officer standards and training
board, the licensee or an employee of the licensee acting with the permission
of the licensee to be in possession of a firearm while on the licensed premises
of an onsale retailer.This paragraph shall not be construed
to include a situation in which a person is on licensed premises for a limited
time in order to seek emergency aid and such person does not buy, receive,
consume or possess spirituous liquor. This paragraph shall not apply to:
(a)Hotel or motel guest room accommodations.
(b)The exhibition or display of a firearm in
conjunction with a meeting, show, class or similar event.
(c)A person with a permit issued pursuant to
section 133112 who carries a concealed handgun on the licensed premises
of any onsale retailer that has not posted a notice pursuant to section
4229.
30.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit a
person in possession of a firearm other than a peace officer or a member of a
sheriff's volunteer posse while on duty who has received firearms training that
is approved by the Arizona peace officer standards and training board, the
licensee or an employee of the licensee acting with the permission of the
licensee to remain on the licensed premises or to serve, sell or furnish
spirituous liquor to a person in possession of a firearm while on the licensed
premises of an onsale retailer. It shall be a defense to action under
this paragraph if the licensee or employee requested assistance of a peace
officer to remove such person. This paragraph shall not apply to:
(a)Hotel or motel guest room accommodations.
(b)The exhibition or display of a firearm in
conjunction with a meeting, show, class or similar event.
(c)A person with a permit issued pursuant to
section 133112 who carries a concealed handgun on the licensed premises
of any onsale retailer that has not posted a notice pursuant to section
4229.
31.For any person in possession of a firearm while
on the licensed premises of an on-sale retailer to consume spirituous liquor.
This paragraph does not prohibit the consumption of small amounts of spirituous
liquor by an undercover peace officer on assignment to investigate the licensed
establishment.
32.For a licensee or employee to knowingly permit
spirituous liquor to be removed from the licensed premises, except in the
original unbroken package.This paragraph does not apply to any of
the following:
(a)A person who removes a bottle of wine which that has been partially consumed in
conjunction with a purchased meal from licensed premises if a cork is inserted
flush with the top of the bottle or the bottle is otherwise securely closed.
(b)A person who is in licensed premises that have
noncontiguous portions that are separated by a public or private walkway or
driveway and who takes spirituous liquor from one portion of the licensed
premises across the public or private walkway or driveway directly to the other
portion of the licensed premises.
(c)a
licensee of a bar, beer and wine bar, liquor store, beer and wine
store, or microbrewery licensee or restaurant that has a permit pursuant to section 4205.02,
subsection H who dispenses beer only in a clean container
composed of a material approved by a national sanitation organization with a
maximum capacity that does not exceed one gallon and not for consumption on the
premises if:
(i)The licensee or the licensee's employee fills
the container at the tap at the time of sale.
(ii)The container is sealed with a plastic adhesive and displays a
government warning label.
(iii)The dispensing of that beer is not done
through a drivethrough or walkup service window.
The department shall
review the effects of this subdivision and submit a report by July 1, 2015 on
the effects of this subdivision to the governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives and the president of the senate. The department shall provide a
copy of this report to the secretary of state.
33.For a person who is obviously intoxicated to buy
or attempt to buy spirituous liquor from a licensee or employee of a licensee
or to consume spirituous liquor on licensed premises.
34.For a person under twentyone years of age
to drive or be in physical control of a motor vehicle while there is any
spirituous liquor in the person's body.
35.For a person under twentyone years of age
to operate or be in physical control of a motorized watercraft that is underway
while there is any spirituous liquor in the person's body.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "underway" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 5301.
36.For a licensee, manager, employee or controlling
person to purposely induce a voter, by means of alcohol, to vote or abstain
from voting for or against a particular candidate or issue on an election day.
37.For a licensee to fail to report an occurrence
of an act of violence to either the department or a law enforcement agency.
38.For a licensee to use a vending machine for the
purpose of dispensing spirituous liquor.
39.For a licensee to offer for sale a wine carrying
a label including a reference to Arizona or any Arizona city, town or
geographic location unless at least seventyfive per cent percent by volume of the grapes used in making the wine
were grown in Arizona.
40.For a retailer to knowingly allow a customer to
bring spirituous liquor onto the licensed premises, except that an onsale
retailer may allow a wine and food club to bring wine onto the premises for
consumption by the club's members and guests of the club's members in conjunction
with meals purchased at a meeting of the club that is conducted on the premises
and that at least seven members attend. An onsale retailer who allows
wine and food clubs to bring wine onto its premises under this paragraph shall
comply with all applicable provisions of this title and any rules adopted
pursuant to this title to the same extent as if the onsale retailer had
sold the wine to the members of the club and their guests.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "wine and food club" means an association
that has more than twenty bona fide members paying at least six dollars per
year in dues and that has been in existence for at least one year.
41.For a person under twentyone years of age
to have in the person's body any spirituous liquor.In a prosecution
for a violation of this paragraph:
(a)Pursuant to section 4249, it is a defense
that the spirituous liquor was consumed in connection with the bona fide
practice of a religious belief or as an integral part of a religious exercise
and in a manner not dangerous to public health or safety.
(b)Pursuant to section 4226, it is a defense
that the spirituous liquor was consumed for a bona fide medicinal purpose and
in a manner not dangerous to public health or safety.
42.For an employee of a licensee to accept any
gratuity, compensation, remuneration or consideration of any kind to either:
(a)Permit a person who is under twenty-one years of
age to enter any portion of the premises where that person is prohibited from
entering pursuant to paragraph 22 of this section.
(b)Sell, furnish, dispose of or give spirituous
liquor to a person who is under twentyone years of age.
43.For a person to purchase, offer for sale or use
any device, machine or process which
that mixes spirituous
liquor with pure oxygen or another gas to produce a vaporized product for the
purpose of consumption by inhalation or to allow patrons to use any item for
the consumption of vaporized spirituous liquor.
44.For a retail licensee or an employee of a retail
licensee to sell spirituous liquor to a person if the retail licensee or
employee knows the person intends to resell the spirituous liquor.
45.Except as authorized by paragraph 32,
subdivision (c) of this section, for a person to reuse a bottle or other container
authorized for use by the laws of the United States or any agency of the United
States for the packaging of distilled spirits or for a person to increase the
original contents or a portion of the original contents remaining in a liquor
bottle or other authorized container by adding any substance. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 4-251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-251.Spirituous liquor in motor vehicles; prohibitions;
violation; classification; exceptions; definitions
A.It is unlawful for any person to:
1.Consume spirituous liquor while operating or
while within the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle that is located on
any public highway or rightofway of a public highway in this
state.
2.Possess an open container of spirituous liquor
within the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle that is located on any
public highway or rightofway of a public highway in this state.
B.A person who violates subsection A of this
section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
C.This section does not apply to:
1.A passenger in any bus, limousine, or
taxi or TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY
VEHICLE AS DEFINED IN SECTION 289551 WHILE THE VEHICLE IS BEING USED TO
PROVIDE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES as defined in section 289551.
2.A passenger in the living quarters of a motor
home as defined in section 284301.
3.A PERSON WHO REMOVES A CONTAINER OF BEER FROM
A BAR, BEER AND WINE BAR, LIQUOR STORE, BEER AND WINE STORE, MICROBREWERY OR
RESTAURANT that has A PERMIT PURSUANT TO SECTION 4-205.02, subsection H that is
DISPENSED PURSUANT TO SECTION 4-244, paragraph 32, subdivision (c).
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Motor vehicle" means any vehicle that
is driven or drawn by mechanical power and that is designed primarily for use
on public highways. Motor vehicle does not include a vehicle operated
exclusively on rails.
2."Open container" means any bottle, can,
jar or other receptacle that contains spirituous liquor and that has been
opened, has had its seal broken or the contents of which have been partially
removed.
3."Passenger compartment" means the area
of a motor vehicle designed for the seating of the driver and other passengers
of the vehicle. Passenger compartment includes an unlocked glove compartment
and any unlocked portable devices within the immediate reach of the driver or
any passengers. Passenger compartment does not include the trunk, a locked
glove compartment or the area behind the last upright seat of a motor vehicle
that is not equipped with a trunk.
4."Public highway or rightofway
of a public highway" means the entire width between and immediately
adjacent to the boundary lines of every way maintained by the federal
government, this state or a county, city or town if any part of the way is
generally open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. END_STATUTE 

