









REFERENCE TITLE: state board; superintendent; powers;
  duties







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1416









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





AN ACT

amending sections
15201, 15202 and 15203, Arizona Revised Statutes;
providing for transferring and renumbering; amending section 15-203.01, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered; amending sections 15216,
15217, 15-231, 15234, 15235 and 15239, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending section 15-248.03, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
transferred and renumbered; amending sections 15251, 15252, 15341,
15501, 15503, 15-512, 15514, 15-534.01, 15537, 15539,
15552, 15756, 15756.06, 15756.07, 15795.01,
15977 and 15980, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the state
board of education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-201.State board of education; members; appointment; terms
A.The state board of education shall be composed of
the superintendent of public instruction, the president of a state university
or a state college, three four lay members, a president
or chancellor of a community college district, a superintendent of a high
school district, an OWNER or
administrator of a charter school, a classroom teacher and a
county school superintendent.A member who is a president of a state
university or a state college shall not succeed himself.
B.The governor shall appoint each member, other
than the superintendent of public instruction, pursuant to section 38211
for a term of four years beginning on the third Monday in January. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-202, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-202.Meetings; majority required for validation; travel
expenses; immunity
A.The state board of education shall hold four
regular meetings annually at times it directs.Special meetings may
be held on the call of the presiding officer.
B.Concurrence of a majority of all members of the
board is necessary for validation of an act of the board.
C.Members shall be allowed travel expenses and
reimbursement for subsistence, as provided by title 38, chapter 4, article 2,
to be paid upon on claims approved by the superintendent of public instruction
department of administration,
as other claims against the state are paid, from the appropriation for the
board authorized in the general appropriation bill.
D.Members of the board are immune from personal
liability with respect to all acts done and actions taken in good faith within
the scope of their authority during duly constituted regular and special
meetings with approval of a majority of all
members of the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-203, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-203.Powers and duties
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Exercise general supervision over and regulate
the conduct of the public school system and adopt any rules and policies it
deems necessary to accomplish this purpose.
2.Keep a record of its proceedings.
3.Make rules for its own government.
4.Determine the policy and work undertaken by it.
5.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ
staff on the recommendation of the
superintendent of public instruction.
6.Prescribe and
supervise the duties of its employees pursuant to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, if
not otherwise prescribed
by statute.
7.Delegate to the superintendent of public
instruction the execution of board policies and rules.
8.Recommend to the legislature changes or additions
to the statutes pertaining to schools.
9.Prepare, publish and distribute reports
concerning the educational welfare of this state.
10.Prepare a budget for expenditures necessary for
proper maintenance of the board and accomplishment of its purposes and present
the budget to the legislature.
11.Aid in the enforcement of laws relating to
schools.
12.Prescribe a minimum course of study in the
common schools, minimum competency requirements for the promotion of pupils
from the third grade and minimum course of study and competency requirements
for the promotion of pupils from the eighth grade. The state board of
education shall prepare a fiscal impact statement of any proposed changes to
the minimum course of study or competency requirements and, on completion,
shall send a copy to the director of the joint legislative budget committee and
the executive director of the school facilities board. The state board of
education shall not adopt any changes in the minimum course of study or
competency requirements in effect on July 1, 1998 that will have a fiscal
impact on school capital costs.
13.Prescribe minimum course of study and competency
requirements for the graduation of pupils from high school.The
state board of education shall prepare a fiscal impact statement of any
proposed changes to the minimum course of study or competency requirements and,
on completion, shall send a copy to the director of the joint legislative
budget committee and the executive director of the school facilities
board.The state board of education shall not adopt any changes in
the minimum course of study or competency requirements in effect on July 1,
1998 that will have a fiscal impact on school capital costs.
14.Supervise and control the certification of
persons engaged in instructional work directly as any classroom, laboratory or
other teacher or indirectly as a supervisory teacher, speech therapist,
principal or superintendent in a school district, including school district
preschool programs, or any other educational institution below the community
college, college or university level, and prescribe rules for certification,
including rules for certification of teachers who have teaching experience and
who are trained in other states, that are not unnecessarily restrictive and are
substantially similar to the rules prescribed for the certification of teachers
trained in this state. The rules:
(a)Shall allow a variety of alternative teacher and
administrator preparation programs, with variations in program sequence and
design, to apply for program approval. The state board shall adopt rules
pursuant to this subdivision designed to allow for a variety of formats and
shall not require a prescribed answer or design from the program provider in
order to obtain approval from the state board.The state board shall
evaluate each program provider based on the program's ability to prepare
teachers and administrators and to recruit teachers and administrators with a
variety of experiences and talents. The state board shall permit universities
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, community colleges in
this state, private postsecondary institutions licensed by this state, school
districts, charter schools and professional organizations to apply for program
approval and shall create application procedures and certification criteria
that are less restrictive than those for traditional preparation programs.
Alternative preparation program graduates shall:
(i)Hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited
postsecondary education institution.
(ii)Demonstrate professional knowledge and subject
knowledge proficiency pursuant to section 15533.
(iii)Obtain a fingerprint clearance card pursuant
to section 15-534.
(iv)Complete training in structured English
immersion as prescribed by the state board.
(v)Complete training in research based research-based systematic phonics instruction
as prescribed in subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vi)Demonstrate the required proficiency in the
Constitutions of the United States and Arizona as prescribed in section 15532.
(b)Shall require applicants for all certificates
for common school instruction to complete a minimum of fortyfive
classroom hours or three college level credit hours, or the equivalent, of
training in research-based systematic phonics instruction from a public or
private provider.
(c)Shall not require a teacher to obtain a master's
degree or to take any additional graduate courses as a condition of
certification or recertification.
(d)Shall allow a general equivalency diploma to be
substituted for a high school diploma in the certification of emergency
substitute teachers.
(e)Shall allow but shall not require the
superintendent of a school district to obtain certification from the state
board of education.
(f)Shall provide for the issuance of a specialized
teaching certificate to classroom teachers with expertise in either science,
technology, engineering or mathematics.Teachers who are certified
pursuant to this subdivision shall complete training in structured English
immersion as prescribed by the state board. Teachers who are certified
pursuant to this subdivision are exempt from the professional knowledge and
subject knowledge proficiency requirements prescribed in section 15533
and from the proficiency requirements prescribed in section 15532 on the
Constitutions of the United States and Arizona. A teacher who obtains a
specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision may provide
instruction in the teacher's field of expertise in grades six through twelve at
any public school in this state.This subdivision does not require a
teacher who has obtained another type of teaching certificate from the state
board to obtain a specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision
in order to provide instruction in grades six through twelve in a science,
technology, engineering or mathematics course.A classroom teacher
is eligible for a specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision
if the teacher meets all of the following requirements:
(i)Has taught science, technology, engineering or
mathematics courses for the last two consecutive years and for a total of at
least three years at one or more regionally or nationally accredited public or
private postsecondary institutions.An applicant shall demonstrate
compliance with this requirement by providing the state board with written
proof of employment for specific durations from one or more qualifying
postsecondary institutions.
(ii)Has either a baccalaureate degree, a master's
degree or a doctorate degree in an academic subject that is specific to
science, technology, engineering or mathematics or has obtained a passing score
on a statewide educator assessment in science, technology, engineering or
mathematics that is recognized by the state board.
(iii)Obtains a valid fingerprint clearance card
that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1.
(g)Notwithstanding section 15533, may exempt
persons applying for a secondary education certificate from the subject
knowledge portion of the proficiency examination if the state board determines
that the person has work experience in science, technology, engineering or
mathematics and can demonstrate adequate knowledge of a particular subject
through a postsecondary education degree or twentyfour credit hours of
relevant coursework.
15.Adopt a list of approved tests for determining
special education assistance to gifted pupils as defined in and as provided in
chapter 7, article 4.1 of this title. The adopted tests shall provide separate
scores for quantitative reasoning, verbal reasoning and nonverbal reasoning and
shall be capable of providing reliable and valid scores at the highest ranges
of the score distribution.
16.Adopt rules governing the methods for the
administration of all proficiency examinations.
17.Adopt proficiency examinations for its use. The
state board of education shall determine the passing score for the proficiency examination examinations.
18.Include
within its budget the cost of contracting for the purchase, distribution and
scoring of the examinations as provided in paragraphs 16 and 17 of this
subsection.
19.18.Supervise and
control the qualifications of professional nonteaching school personnel and
prescribe standards relating to qualifications.The standards shall
not require the business manager of a school district to obtain certification
from the state board of education.
20.19.Impose such
disciplinary action, including the issuance of a letter of censure, suspension,
suspension with conditions or revocation of a certificate, upon on
a finding of immoral or unprofessional conduct.
21.20.Establish an
assessment, data gathering and reporting system for pupil performance as
prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
22.21.Adopt a rule to
promote braille literacy pursuant to section 15214.
23.22.Adopt rules
prescribing procedures for the investigation by the department state board of education of every written
complaint alleging that a certificated person has engaged in immoral conduct.
24.23.For purposes of
federal law, serve as the state board for vocational and technological
education and meet at least four times each year solely to execute the powers
and duties of the state board for vocational and technological education.
25.24.Develop and
maintain a handbook for use in the schools of this state that provides guidance
for the teaching of moral, civic and ethical education.The handbook
shall promote existing curriculum frameworks and shall encourage school
districts to recognize moral, civic and ethical values within instructional and
programmatic educational development programs for the general purpose of
instilling character and ethical principles in pupils in kindergarten programs
and grades one through twelve.
26.25.Require pupils
to recite the following passage from the declaration of independence for pupils
in grades four through six at the commencement of the first class of the day in
the schools, except that a pupil shall not be required to participate if the
pupil or the pupil's parent or guardian objects:
We hold these truths to be selfevident, that all men
are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain
unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.That to secure these rights, governments are instituted
among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. . . .
27.26.Adopt rules that
provide for educator certification reciprocity.The rules for
issuance of a comparable reciprocal educator certificate shall include a
requirement that the applicant possess a comparable valid certification from
another state.
28.27.Adopt rules that
provide for the presentation of an honorary high school diploma to a person who
has never obtained a high school diploma and who meets both of the following
requirements:
(a)Currently resides in this state.
(b)Provides documented evidence from the department
of veterans' services that the person enlisted in the armed forces of the
United States and served in World War I, World War II, the Korean conflict or
the Vietnam conflict.
29.28.Cooperate with
the ArizonaMexico commission in the governor's office and with
researchers at universities in this state to collect data and conduct projects
in the United States and Mexico on issues that are within the scope of the
duties of the department of education and that relate to quality of life, trade
and economic development in this state in a manner that will help the ArizonaMexico
commission to assess and enhance the economic competitiveness of this state and
of the ArizonaMexico region.
30.29.Adopt rules to
define and provide guidance to schools as to the activities that would
constitute immoral or unprofessional conduct of certificated persons.
31.30.Adopt guidelines
to encourage pupils in grades nine, ten, eleven and twelve to volunteer for
twenty hours of community service before graduation from high
school.A school district that complies with the guidelines adopted
pursuant to this paragraph is not liable for damages resulting from a pupil's
participation in community service unless the school district is found to have
demonstrated wanton or reckless disregard for the safety of the pupil and other
participants in community service. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"community service" may include service learning. The guidelines
shall include the following:
(a)A list of the general categories in which
community service may be performed.
(b)A description of the methods by which community
service will be monitored.
(c)A consideration of risk assessment for community
service projects.
(d)Orientation and notification procedures of
community service opportunities for pupils entering grade nine, including the
development of a notification form.The notification form shall be
signed by the pupil and the pupil's parent or guardian, except that a pupil
shall not be required to participate in community service if the parent or
guardian notifies the principal of the pupil's school in writing that the
parent or guardian does not wish the pupil to participate in community service.
(e)Procedures for a pupil in grade nine to prepare
a written proposal that outlines the type of community service that the pupil
would like to perform and the goals that the pupil hopes to achieve as a result
of community service.The pupil's written proposal shall be reviewed
by a faculty advisor, a guidance counselor or any other school employee who is
designated as the community service program coordinator for that school. The
pupil may alter the written proposal at any time before performing community
service.
(f)Procedures for a faculty advisor, a guidance
counselor or any other school employee who is designated as the community
service program coordinator to evaluate and certify the completion of community
service performed by pupils.
32.31.To facilitate
the transfer of military personnel and their dependents to and from the public
schools of this state, pursue, in cooperation with the Arizona board of
regents, reciprocity agreements with other states concerning the transfer
credits for military personnel and their dependents.A reciprocity
agreement entered into pursuant to this paragraph shall:
(a)Address procedures for each of the following:
(i)The transfer of student records.
(ii)Awarding credit for completed coursework.
(iii)Permitting a student to satisfy the graduation
requirements prescribed in section 15701.01 through the successful
performance on comparable exit-level assessment instruments administered in
another state.
(b)Include appropriate criteria developed by the
state board of education and the Arizona board of regents.
33.32.Adopt guidelines
that school district governing boards shall use in identifying pupils who are
eligible for gifted programs and in providing gifted education programs and
services.The state board of education shall adopt any other
guidelines and rules that it deems necessary in order to carry out the purposes
of chapter 7, article 4.1 of this title.
34.33.For each of the
alternative textbook formats of human-voiced audio, large-print and braille,
designate alternative media producers to adapt existing standard print
textbooks or to provide specialized textbooks, or both, for pupils with
disabilities in this state. Each alternative media producer shall be capable
of producing alternative textbooks in all relevant subjects in at least one of
the alternative textbook formats.The board shall post the
designated list of alternative media producers on its website.
35.34.Adopt a list of
approved professional development training providers for use by school
districts as provided in section 15107, subsection J. The professional
development training providers shall meet the training curriculum requirements
determined by the state board of education in at least the areas of school
finance, governance, employment, staffing, inventory and human resources,
internal controls and procurement.
36.35.Adopt rules to
prohibit a person who violates the notification requirements prescribed in
section 15183, subsection C, paragraph 8 or section 15550,
subsection C from certification pursuant to this title until the person is no
longer charged or is acquitted of any offenses listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B.The board shall also adopt rules to prohibit a person
who violates the notification requirements, certification surrender
requirements or fingerprint clearance card surrender requirements prescribed in
section 15183, subsection C, paragraph 9 or section 15550,
subsection D from certification pursuant to this title for at least ten years
after the date of the violation.
37.36.Adopt rules for
the alternative certification of teachers of nontraditional foreign languages
that allow for the passing of a nationally accredited test to substitute for
the education coursework required for certification.
38.37.Adopt and maintain
a model framework for a teacher and principal evaluation instrument that
includes quantitative data on student academic progress that accounts for
between thirtythree percent and fifty percent of the evaluation
outcomes.The framework shall include four performance
classifications, designated as highly effective, effective, developing and
ineffective, and guidelines for school districts and charter schools to use in
their evaluation instruments. The state board of education shall adopt best practices
for professional development and evaluator training.The state board
of education may periodically make adjustments to align the model framework for
teacher and principal evaluations with assessment or data changes at the state
level. School districts and charter schools shall use an instrument that meets
the data requirements established by the state board of education to annually
evaluate individual teachers and principals.School districts and
charter schools shall adopt definitions for the performance classifications
adopted by the state board of education in a public meeting and apply the
performance classifications to their evaluation instruments in a manner
designed to improve principal and teacher performance.For charter
holders, the principal evaluation instrument applies to each charter school's
instructional leader whose primary responsibility is to oversee the academic
performance of the charter school. This paragraph does not apply to an officer,
director, member or partner of the charter holder.The school
district governing board shall discuss at a public meeting at least annually
its aggregate performance classifications of principals and teachers.
39.38.Adopt rules to
define competencybased educational pathways for college and career
readiness that may be used by schools. The rules shall include the following
components:
(a)The establishment of learning outcomes that will
be expected for students in a particular subject.
(b)A process and criteria by which assessments may
be identified or established to determine if students have reached the desired
competencies in a particular subject.
(c)A mechanism to allow pupils in grades seven
through twelve who have demonstrated competency in a subject to immediately
obtain credit for the mastery of that subject. The rules shall include a list
of applicable subjects, including the level of competency required for each
subject.
40.39.In consultation
with the department of health services, the department of education, medical
professionals, school health professionals, school administrators and an
organization that represents school nurses in this state, adopt rules on or before January 1, 2014 that
prescribe the following for school districts and charter schools:
(a)Annual training in the administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine, as directed on the prescription protocol, for designated medical
and nonmedical school personnel.The annual training prescribed in
this subdivision is optional during any fiscal year in which sufficient monies
are not appropriated by the legislature during that fiscal year to provide for
the purchase of two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at each public school in this state and if the school does not
stock two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at the school during that fiscal year.
(b)Annual training for all school site personnel on
the recognition of anaphylactic shock symptoms and the procedures to follow
when anaphylactic shock occurs, following the national guidelines of the
American academy of pediatrics. The annual training prescribed in this
subdivision is optional during any fiscal year in which sufficient monies are
not appropriated by the legislature during that fiscal year to provide for the
purchase of two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at each public school in this state and if the school does not
stock two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at the school during that fiscal year.
(c)Procedures for the administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine in emergency situations, as directed on the prescription protocol.
(d)Procedures for annually requesting a standing
order for epinephrine autoinjectors pursuant to section 15157
from the chief medical officer of the department of health services, the chief
medical officer of a county health department, a doctor of medicine licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or a doctor of osteopathy licensed pursuant to
title 32, chapter17.
(e)Procedures for reporting the use of autoinjectable
epinephrine to the department of health services.
B.The state board of education may:
1.Contract.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Distribute and score the tests prescribed in chapter
7, article 3 of this title.
4.Provide for an advisory committee to conduct
hearings and screenings to determine whether grounds exist to impose
disciplinary action against a certificated person, whether grounds exist to
reinstate a revoked or surrendered certificate and whether grounds exist to
approve or deny an initial application for certification or a request for
renewal of a certificate. The board may delegate its responsibility to conduct
hearings and screenings to its advisory committee.Hearings shall be
conducted pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 6.
5.Proceed with the disposal of any complaint
requesting disciplinary action or with any disciplinary action against a person
holding a certificate as prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 14 of this section after the
suspension or expiration of the certificate or surrender of the certificate by
the holder.
6.Assess costs and reasonable attorney fees against
a person who files a frivolous complaint or who files a complaint in bad faith.
Costs assessed pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed the expenses
incurred by the state board in the investigation of the complaint.
7.Request
from the department of education or the superintendent of public instruction
any data, information or technical support related to the powers and duties
prescribed in this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 15-240, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 15, chapter 2,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 15-203.01 and, as so
renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-203.01.Issuance of subpoenas
A.On the request of any person who is
investigating, on behalf of the department
state board of education,
a complaint alleging that a certificated person has engaged in immoral or
unprofessional conduct, the department
state board of education
may issue subpoenas compelling the attendance and testimony of witnesses or
demanding the production for examination or copying of documents or any
physical evidence.
B.The superior court, on application by the department state board of education or by the person
subpoenaed, has jurisdiction to issue an order either:
1.Requiring the person to appear before the
department of education or the duly authorized agent to produce evidence
relating to the matter under investigation.
2.Revoking, limiting or modifying the subpoena if
in the court's opinion the evidence demanded does not relate to conduct that
might constitute grounds for disciplinary action, is not relevant to the
subject matter of the investigation or does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence whose production is required.
C.Any failure to obey an order of the court
pursuant to subsection B of this
section may be punished by the court as contempt. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 15-216, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-216.Arizona critical language and economic development pilot
program; rules; program termination; definition
A.If sufficient funding is provided for this
purpose, the state board of education shall establish rules and policies for a sixyear
Arizona critical language and economic development pilot program to be administered by the department of education.Subject to approval by the
state board of education, in consultation
with the
department of education,
shall develop and implement courses of study in critical languages for the
pilot program.
B.A course authorized under the pilot program may
be taught through innovative learning technologies either in a traditional
setting or by a visiting foreign guest teacher.
C.The courses authorized under the pilot program
may use paraprofessionals in the classroom who are fluent in the critical
language being taught and who can provide reinforcement and tutoring to pupils
on days and at times when the pupils are not receiving regular instruction.
D.Participating school districts and charter
schools shall ensure that any paraprofessionals who participate in the pilot
program are fluent in the critical languages being taught and shall submit a
signed attestation to the department of education that the requirements of this
subsection have been met.
E.The state board of education shall adopt rules
relating to the authorized critical language courses that include notification
to school districts about the times and places of the course offerings and
instructional models for the courses.
F.The department of education shall track, monitor
and expand the pilot program to include additional course offerings and other
critical languages, subject to pupil demand for the courses and subject to
available resources, except that no more than twenty school sites may
participate in the pilot program.
G.Beginning in the 20142015 school year, the
state board of education shall select seven schools to participate in the pilot
program as follows:
1.Three participating schools shall offer Chinese
language courses.
2.Two participating schools shall offer Spanish
language courses.
3.Two participating schools shall offer additional
critical language courses.
H.If sufficient funding is available for the pilot
program, each participating school shall:
1.Receive up to ten thousand dollars on or before
July 1 of every year that the school participates in the pilot program.
2.Establish a researchedbased instructional
model adopted by the state board of education that uses fifty per cent
percent instruction in English and fifty per cent
percent instruction in another critical language. 
3.Begin the instructional model prescribed in this
section in either the kindergarten program or grade one and add an additional
grade each year of participation in the pilot program.
I.If sufficient funding is available, the
department of education shall establish and maintain an office of economic
development and critical languages to assist the department in carrying out
this section.If sufficient funding is not available, the department
shall prorate the amount provided to each participating school in accordance
with the funding available.
J.Pupils who are classified as English language
learners pursuant to section 15756 and native speakers of the critical
language being taught are not eligible to participate in the pilot program.
K.The program established by this section ends on
September 30, 2020 pursuant to section 413102.
L.For the purposes
of this section, "critical languages" means:
1.Languages
described in the national security language initiative, including Chinese,
Russian, French, Spanish, Japanese, Arabic and Portuguese.
2.Native American languages. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 15-217, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-217.K-6 technology-based language development and literacy
intervention pilot program; educational technology provider; review; reports;
fund
A.The state board of education shall develop rules and policies for a twoyear
pilot program for K6 technologybased language development and
literacy intervention to be
administered by the department of education.The state
board shall develop application procedures and selection criteria to be ADMINISTERED by the department of
education for school districts and charter schools that
voluntarily decide to participate in the pilot program.
B.Subject
to review and approval by the state board of education, the department of education
shall submit a request for proposals to educational technology providers for
the delivery of technologybased language development and literacy
intervention software to be made available to all pupils in kindergarten
programs and grades one through six who are enrolled in schools that
participate in the pilot program and who are identified as English language learners.
C.The state board shall establish guidelines for the format of the applications,
application procedures and selection criteria to be administered by the department of education for
educational technology providers that wish to submit a proposal for the
delivery of K6 technologybased language development and literacy
intervention software to be used in the pilot program.The state
board shall select and award a contract to one educational technology provider
to deliver K-6 technologybased language development and literacy
intervention software pursuant to this section.The state board
shall distribute approve the distribution of monies
appropriated for this purpose to the selected provider.
D.The K6 technology-based language
development and literacy intervention software for English language learners must
differentiate instruction for each pupil and meet all of the following
requirements:
1.Include instruction individualized to teach each
pupil the following five strands of literacy:
(a)Phonics.
(b)Phonemic awareness.
(c)Vocabulary.
(d)Comprehension.
(e)Fluency.
2.Have components that are created for and aligned
to state academic standards.The software must correlate to the
Arizona English language proficiency standards.
3.Contain internal assessments, checkpoints,
tracking and reports for teachers, administrators and parents.
4.Be used to address varied learner needs and to
assist teachers in tracking pupil growth toward important curricular goals.
The software must have tools and offline resources that enable teachers
to more effectively meet the individual needs of each pupil.
5.Provide immediate feedback to pupils and provide
automatic remediation when needed.The software must provide
scaffolding through illustrations, front-loaded vocabulary, audio support,
interactive glossary words, instructional feedback, strategic questions and
adaptive content that provides extra practice as needed.
6.Include gradeappropriate digital books
with literature text and informational text. Pupils must be able to practice
reading on the computer by recording readings and comparing those readings to
the reading model.
7.Provide implicit and explicit instruction. The
software must teach the core areas of listening and reading comprehension,
including intertextual comprehension.
8.Teach pupils academic vocabulary using real and
virtual experience and visuals to introduce vocabulary. The vocabulary must be
related to core content areas and provide additional language development
activities for those pupils requiring this assistance.
9.Teach basic interpersonal communicative skills
and cognitive academic language proficiency and assess a pupil's understanding
of each.
E.The educational technology provider selected
pursuant to subsection C of this section must have experience with large statewide
implementations and the ability to support a statewide level of
implementation. The provider must submit evidence of pupil progress on an
annual basis.
F.The joint legislative budget committee shall
annually review the results of the delivery of K-6 technologybased
language development and literacy intervention for English language learners
through software provided pursuant to this section.
G.On or before September 15, 2015, the state board
of education shall submit a progress report on the pilot program to the joint
legislative budget committee.On or before September 15, 2016, the department of education shall prepare a
report to be delivered and approved by the state board and the
state board shall submit a
the approved report to
the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives regarding the pilot program and delivery of K6
technologybased language development and literacy intervention for
English language learners through software provided pursuant to this
section.The report must include a recommendation of whether the
legislature should consider expanding the pilot program as a permanent
statewide program and information on the number of school districts, charter
schools and pupils who participated in the intervention.The state
board shall submit a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
H.The technology-based language development and
literacy intervention fund is established consisting of legislative
appropriations and monies transferred into the fund. The department of
education shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund are subject to
legislative appropriation. Monies in the fund must be used for the K6
technology-based language development and literacy intervention pilot program
established pursuant to this section. Monies in the fund are exempt from the
provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 15-231, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-231.Department of education
A.There is created a department of education.
B.The department shall be administered through:
1.The state board of education, which shall be the policy determining policydetermining body of the
department.
2.The superintendent of public instruction in whom
all executive, administrative and ministerial functions of the department are
vested and who is the executive officer of the state board of education and who is responsible for the execution of
rules and policies adopted by the state board.
C.In addition to any divisions established by law,
the superintendent of public instruction may establish such divisions as in the
judgment of the superintendent of public instruction are necessary for the
proper transaction of the business of the department.
D.The department shall be conducted under the
control of the superintendent of public instruction.END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 15-234, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-234.Appropriations for adult education; eligibility;
supplemental fees; definition
A.Any appropriation made to the state board of education or department of
education for the purposes of adult education may be expended for costs to the
department of activities related to adult education, including the costs of operating the
division of adult education.In addition, any of the monies may be
allocated to an adult education provider as provided in subsections B and C of
this section.
B.An adult education provider which
that offers a course of study for adult education under section
15232 is eligible for allocation of funds pursuant to subsection C of
this section from the state board
department of education
if the district or county offering such that course meets all
applicable standards established under rules of the state board of education.
C.The state
board department of
education may allocate from its available appropriation for adult education any
amount it deems appropriate for the use of an eligible adult education provider
to compensate for costs of conducting the course of study of adult education
based on an application which shall
include that includes
a budget and other criteria as established by the state board of
education.This application must be approved by the state board of
education prior to the commencement of classes or courses of study if the
applicant wishes to be compensated.Compensation shall be limited to
the approved amount in the application.
D.An adult education provider that offers a course
of study for adult education pursuant to section 15232 may charge
supplemental fees to adults who are eligible to participate in the adult
education program.Any supplemental fees charged for adult education
programs shall be approved by the department of education prior to the
imposition of the fees.Adult education providers shall
conspicuously post information on the supplemental fee structure and shall
provide advance written notice to all program participants of any changes to
the approved fee structure at least ninety days prior to taking effect. Any
supplemental fees collected pursuant to this subsection shall only be used to
support and expand adult education instruction and not to supplant existing state and federal
funding.The state
department of corrections shall not charge supplemental fees pursuant to this
subsection. 
E.For the purposes of this section, "adult
education provider" means a school district, community college district,
correctional facility or communitybased organization, an institution
serving educationally disadvantaged adults, or any other institution that
receives public funds to provide adult education services. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 15-235, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-235.Division of special education; director; duties;
qualifications; advisory committee; members
A.A The division of special
education is established to carry out this section, section 15236 and
chapter 7, article 4 of this title subject to the superintendent of public
instruction.
B.There shall be at least one director of the
division of special education.
C.The director or directors shall carry out this
section, section 15236 and chapter 7, article 4 of this title and the
duties prescribed by the state board of education relating to the
administration of this section, section 15236 and chapter 7, article 4
of this title.
D.The division of special education may review
special education programs, including placement of pupils, to determine that
program, evaluation and placement procedures comply with sections 15766
and 15767 and the rules approved by the state board of education.
E.Only a person who is experienced in special
education is eligible for appointment as a director of the division of special
education.
F.A special education advisory committee is
established that shall advise and consult with the state board of education,
the superintendent of public instruction and the director or directors of the
division of special education and that shall engage in other activities as are
provided in this section.The advisory committee shall be composed
pursuant to the requirements of 20 United States Code section 1412(A)(21)(b) and (c) 1412(a)(21)(B)
and (C).The state board of education shall appoint
the members of the advisory committee for staggered three year three-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments.
G.The advisory committee shall have a minimum of
two meetings a year.
H.The advisory committee annually shall elect its
own chairman and vicechairman.The state board department of education shall regularly
submit, as part of its budget request, any item or items sufficient to cover
expenses of the operation of the advisory committee, and of its members in connection with
their attendance at meetings of the advisory committee and other advisory
committee activities. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
15-239, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-239.School compliance and recognition; accreditation; audits
A.The department of
education may:
1.Monitor school districts to ascertain that laws
applying to the school districts are implemented as prescribed by law.
2.Subject
to review and approval by the state board of education, adopt a
system of recognition for school districts that meet or exceed the requirements
of the law that apply to the school districts.
3.Subject
to review and approval by the state board of education, establish
standards and procedures for the accreditation of all schools requesting state
accreditation.
B.Subject
to review and approval by the state board of education, the
department of education may adopt guidelines necessary to implement this
section.
C.The department of education may conduct
financial, compliance or average daily membership audits of school districts
and charter schools. Beginning in fiscal
year 20112012 and in Each fiscal year thereafter, the department of education shall
include at least a ten per cent percent sample of daily
attendance records as part of the average daily membership audits.
D.The auditor general may conduct financial,
program, compliance or average daily membership audits of school districts and
charter schools. Beginning in fiscal
year 20112012 and in Each fiscal year thereafter, the auditor general shall include
at least a ten per cent percent sample of daily
attendance records as part of the average daily membership audits.
E.When conducting monitoring and audit activities
allowed by this section, the department of education shall prescribe an audit
window of up to three consecutive fiscal years immediately preceding the
current fiscal year at the time the monitoring or audit activity commences. If
the department issues findings within twenty-four months after the beginning of
audit or monitoring activities, the department may adjust funding to a school
district or charter school if actions that took place within the audit window
resulted in overpayment or underpayment of state aid to the school district or
charter school or the miscalculation of the budget limit for the school
district, or both.Notwithstanding section 15901, subsection
A, paragraph 1, subdivision (a), adjustments to average daily membership for
failure to provide sufficient instructional time to meet the requirements for a
full-time student pursuant to section 15901, subsection A, paragraph 1,
subdivision (b), may be made proportionately according to the percentage by
which the instructional time provided does not meet the required number of
instructional hours prescribed for that grade level. Adjustments to state aid
and budget limits as prescribed by this subsection shall be made in accordance
with section 15915. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 15-211, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 15, chapter 2,
article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 15-248.03 and, as so
renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-248.03.K-3 reading program; receipt and use of monies; additional
funding; program termination
A.The state
board of education, in collaboration with the department of
education, shall
establish a K3 reading program to improve the reading proficiency of
pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one, two and three in the public
schools of this state.
B.On or before October 1, 2012, each school
district and charter school shall submit to the state board department of education a plan for improving
the reading proficiency of its pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one,
two and three.The plan shall include baseline data on the reading
proficiency of its pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one, two and
three and a budget for spending monies from both the K3 support level
weight and the K3 reading support level weight established in section 15943.
Beginning in fiscal year 20132014
and Each fiscal year thereafter, each school district and charter
school shall submit to the state board
department of education
on or before October 1 an updated K3 reading program plan that includes
data on program expenditures and results.
C.School districts and charter schools shall use
monies generated by the K3 reading support level weight established in
section 15943 only on reading programs for pupils in kindergarten
programs and grades one, two and three with particular emphasis on pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one and two.
D.Each school district and charter school that is
assigned a letter grade of C, D or F pursuant to section 15241,
subsection H or that has more than ten per
cent percent
of its pupils in grade three reading far below the third grade level according
to the reading portion of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or
a successor test, shall receive monies generated by the K3 reading
support level weight established in section 15943 only after the K3
reading program plan of the school district or charter school has been approved
by the state board of education.The
department of education shall review k3 reading program plans submitted
pursuant to this subsection and shall provide recommendations to the state
board of education.
E.Pupils in a charter school that is in its first
year of operation and that is sponsored by the state board of education, the
state board for charter schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents, a community college district or a group of community
college districts are eligible for the K-3 reading support level weight.
F.The department of education shall solicit gifts,
grants and donations from any lawful public or private source in order to
provide additional funding for the K3 reading program.
G.The program established by this section ends on
July 1, 2022 pursuant to section 413102. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 15-251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-251.Powers and duties
The superintendent of public instruction shall:
1.Superintend the schools of this state.
2.Request the auditor general to investigate when
necessary the accounts of school monies kept by any state, county or district
officer.
3.Subject to supervision by the state board of
education, apportion to the several counties the monies to which each county is
entitled for the year.Apportionment shall be made as provided in
chapter 9 of this title.
4.Direct the
work of all employees of the board who shall be employees of the department of
education.
5.4.Execute, under
the direction of the state board of education, the policies which have been decided upon by the state board, in cooperation with the staff of the state board.
6.5.Direct the
performance of executive, administrative or ministerial functions by the
department of education or divisions or employees thereof
of the department.
6.Include
in the department of education budget the cost of contracting for the purchase,
distribution and scoring of the proficiency examinations prescribed in section
15203, subsection A, paragraphs 16 and17.
7.Suggest
discussion items, initiatives or policies to be reviewed or approved by the
state board of education.
8.Regularly
update the state board of education.
9.Subject
to review and approval by the state board of education, request the delegation
of duties or changes in policies and rules. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 15-252, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-252.Powers and duties; publications; payment of claims for
printing
A.The superintendent of public instruction shall:
1.Print as needed in pamphlet form the laws
relating to schools, including model forms of which the superintendent is
unable to supply blanks, and supply copies of the pamphlets to school officers
and teachers, school libraries and the Arizona state library, archives and
public records.
2.Prepare, print and distribute pamphlets on
subjects the state board of education directs, including school sanitation,
school architecture and an enumeration of the school holidays established by
law.
3.Prepare, print and distribute through the county
school superintendents blank forms and school registers, with instructions and
rules as to their use, to teachers and officers charged with administration of
laws pertaining to schools.
4.Print and distribute the courses of study
prescribed by the state board of education.
5.Prepare and print blank forms for teachers'
certificates.
B.The superintendent of public instruction may prepare
and publish on the web site website maintained by the
department of education a list of the top elementary schools in this state, the
top junior high or middle schools in this state, the top high schools in this
state and the top charter schools in this state based on the school's academic
gains according to measures selected by the department of
education.The number of top schools determined by the department of
education in the 20072008 school year shall be limited to the top fifty
schools in each category prescribed in this subsection. After the 2007-2008
school year, the department of education may include more than fifty schools in
any category prescribed in this subsection if more than fifty schools in that
category meet the selection criteria established for the top fifty schools in
that category in the 20072008 school year.Academic gains
shall be expressed in terms of percentile ranking in percentile points and
shall be appropriately weighted for scientific validity.The
superintendent of public instruction may make technical adjustments to the
information prescribed in this subsection that are necessary for purposes of
comparability of data, and the superintendent shall post an explanation of
these technical adjustments on the department's web site
website.The superintendent may measure and post the
following information with respect to the top fifty schools in each category
prescribed in this subsection:
1.If the school provides instruction in
kindergarten programs and grades one and two, a separate measurement of the
school's academic gains in kindergarten programs and in grades one and two.
2.The percentage of parents of pupils who are
enrolled at the school who categorize the school as excellent on a survey of
parental satisfaction with the school.
3.The percentage of pupils who are enrolled at the
school and who categorize the school as excellent on a survey of pupil
satisfaction with the school.
4.The percentage of teachers who are employed at
the school and who categorize the school as excellent on a survey of teacher
satisfaction with the school.
C.Claims for the printing of laws and reports of
the superintendent shall be approved by the superintendent and paid as other
claims against the state are paid from appropriations for the state board department of education. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 15-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-341.General powers and duties; immunity; delegation
A.The governing board shall:
1.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures for
the governance of the schools, not inconsistent with law or rules prescribed by
the state board of education.
2.Exclude from schools all books, publications,
papers or audiovisual materials of a sectarian, partisan or denominational
character.This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the
elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
3.Manage and control the school property within its
district.
4.Acquire school furniture, apparatus, equipment,
library books and supplies for the use of the schools.
5.Prescribe the curricula and criteria for the
promotion and graduation of pupils as provided in sections 15701 and 15701.01.
6.Furnish, repair and insure, at full insurable
value, the school property of the district.
7.Construct school buildings on approval by a vote
of the district electors.
8.Make in the name of the district conveyances of
property belonging to the district and sold by the board.
9.Purchase school sites when authorized by a vote
of the district at an election conducted as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as the election provided in section 15481 and held on a date
prescribed in section 15491, subsection E, but such authorization shall
not necessarily specify the site to be purchased and such authorization shall
not be necessary to exchange unimproved property as provided in section 15342,
paragraph 23.
10.Construct, improve and furnish buildings used
for school purposes when such buildings or premises are leased from the
national park service.
11.Purchase school sites or construct, improve and
furnish school buildings from the proceeds of the sale of school property only
on approval by a vote of the district electors.
12.Hold pupils to strict account for disorderly
conduct on school property.
13.Discipline students for disorderly conduct on
the way to and from school.
14.Except as provided in section 151224,
deposit all monies received by the district as gifts, grants and devises with
the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits as designated in the uniform
system of financial records. If not inconsistent with the terms of the gifts,
grants and devises given, any balance remaining after expenditures for the
intended purpose of the monies have been made shall be used for reduction of
school district taxes for the budget year, except that in the case of
accommodation schools the county treasurer shall carry the balance forward for
use by the county school superintendent for accommodation schools for the
budget year.
15.Provide that, if a parent or legal guardian
chooses not to accept a decision of the teacher as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4, the parent or legal guardian may request in writing that the
governing board review the teacher's decision. This paragraph shall not be construed to release school
districts from any liability relating to a child's promotion or retention.
16.Provide for adequate supervision over pupils in
instructional and noninstructional activities by certificated or
noncertificated personnel.
17.Use school monies received from the state and
county school apportionment exclusively for payment of salaries of teachers and
other employees and contingent expenses of the district.
18.Make an annual report to the county school
superintendent on or before October 1 in the manner and form and on the blanks
prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction or county school
superintendent. The board shall also make reports directly to the county
school superintendent or the superintendent of public instruction whenever
required.
19.Deposit all monies received by school districts
other than student activities monies or monies from auxiliary operations as
provided in sections 151125 and 151126 with the county treasurer
to the credit of the school district except as provided in paragraph 20 of this
subsection and sections 151223 and 151224, and the board shall
expend the monies as provided by law for other school funds.
20.Establish bank accounts in which the board
during a month may deposit miscellaneous monies received directly by the
district. The board shall remit monies deposited in the bank accounts at least
monthly to the county treasurer for deposit as provided in paragraph 19 of this
subsection and in accordance with the uniform system of financial records.
21.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against a teacher who engages in conduct that is a violation
of the policies of the governing board but that is not cause for dismissal of
the teacher or for revocation of the certificate of the
teacher.Disciplinary action may include suspension without pay for
a period of time not to exceed ten school days. Disciplinary action shall not
include suspension with pay or suspension without pay for a period of time
longer than ten school days. The procedures shall include notice, hearing and
appeal provisions for violations that are cause for disciplinary action. The
governing board may designate a person or persons to act on behalf of the board
on these matters.
22.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against an administrator who engages in conduct that is
a violation of the policies of the governing board regarding duties of
administrators but that is not cause for dismissal of the administrator or for
revocation of the certificate of the administrator. Disciplinary action may
include suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school
days. Disciplinary action shall not include suspension with pay or suspension
without pay for a period of time longer than ten school days.The
procedures shall include notice, hearing and appeal provisions for violations that
are cause for disciplinary action. The governing board may designate a person
or persons to act on behalf of the board on these matters.For
violations that are cause for dismissal, the provisions of notice, hearing and
appeal in chapter 5, article 3 of this title shall apply. The filing of a
timely request for a hearing suspends the imposition of a suspension without
pay or a dismissal pending completion of the hearing.
23.Notwithstanding sections 133108 and 133120,
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures that prohibit a person from
carrying or possessing a weapon on school grounds unless the person is a peace
officer or has obtained specific authorization from the school administrator.
24.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
relating to the health and safety of all pupils participating in district
sponsored practice sessions or games or other interscholastic athletic
activities, including:
(a)The provision of water.
(b)Guidelines, information and forms, developed in
consultation with a statewide private entity that supervises interscholastic
activities, to inform and educate coaches, pupils and parents of the dangers of
concussions and head injuries and the risks of continued participation in
athletic activity after a concussion. The policies and procedures shall
require that, before a pupil participates in an athletic activity, the pupil
and the pupil's parent must sign an information form at least once each school
year that states that the parent is aware of the nature and risk of
concussion. The policies and procedures shall require that a pupil who is
suspected of sustaining a concussion in a practice session, game or other
interscholastic athletic activity be immediately removed from the athletic
activity.A coach from the pupil's team or an official or a licensed
health care provider may remove a pupil from play.A team parent may
also remove the parent's own child from play. A pupil may return to play on
the same day if a health care provider rules out a suspected concussion at the
time the pupil is removed from play. On a subsequent day, the pupil may return
to play if the pupil has been evaluated by and received written clearance to
resume participation in athletic activity from a health care provider who has
been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and head
injuries. A health care provider who is a volunteer and who provides clearance
to participate in athletic activity on the day of the suspected injury or on a
subsequent day is immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions
made and actions taken that are based on good faith implementation of the
requirements of this subdivision, except in cases of gross negligence or wanton
or wilful neglect. A school district, school district employee, team coach,
official or team volunteer or a parent or guardian of a team member is not
subject to civil liability for any act, omission or policy undertaken in good
faith to comply with the requirements of this subdivision or for a decision
made or an action taken by a health care provider.A group or
organization that uses property or facilities owned or operated by a school
district for athletic activities shall comply with the requirements of this
subdivision.A school district and its employees and volunteers are
not subject to civil liability for any other person or organization's failure
or alleged failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision. This
subdivision does not apply to teams that are based in another state and that
participate in an athletic activity in this state.For the purposes
of this subdivision, athletic activity does not include dance, rhythmic
gymnastics, competitions or exhibitions of academic skills or knowledge or
other similar forms of physical noncontact activities, civic activities or
academic activities, whether engaged in for the purposes of competition or
recreation. For the purposes of this subdivision, "health care
provider" means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13 or 17, an athletic trainer who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 41,
a nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, and a
physician assistant who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 25.
25.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
regarding the smoking of tobacco within school buildings.The
policies and procedures shall be adopted in consultation with school district
personnel and members of the community and shall state whether smoking is
prohibited in school buildings. If smoking in school buildings is not
prohibited, the policies and procedures shall clearly state the conditions and
circumstances under which smoking is permitted, those areas in a school
building that may be designated as smoking areas and those areas in a school
building that may not be designated as smoking areas.
26.Establish an assessment, data gathering and
reporting system as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
27.Provide special education programs and related
services pursuant to section 15764, subsection A to all children with
disabilities as defined in section 15761.
28.Administer competency tests prescribed by the
state board of education for the graduation of pupils from high school.
29.Ensure that insurance coverage is secured for
all construction projects for purposes of general liability, property damage
and workers' compensation and secure performance and payment bonds for all
construction projects.
30.Keep on file the resumes of all current and
former employees who provide instruction to pupils at a
school.Resumes shall include an individual's educational and
teaching background and experience in a particular academic content subject
area.A school district shall inform parents and guardians of the
availability of the resume information and shall make the resume information
available for inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled
at a school.This paragraph shall not be construed to require any
school to release personally identifiable information in relation to any
teacher or employee, including the teacher's or employee's address, salary,
social security number or telephone number.
31.Report to local law enforcement agencies any
suspected crime against a person or property that is a serious offense as
defined in section 13706 or that involves a deadly weapon or dangerous
instrument or serious physical injury and any conduct that poses a threat of
death or serious physical injury to employees, students or anyone on the
property of the school. This paragraph does not limit or preclude the
reporting by a school district or an employee of a school district of suspected
crimes other than those required to be reported by this paragraph. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "dangerous instrument", "deadly
weapon" and "serious physical injury" have the same meanings
prescribed in section 13105.
32.In conjunction with local law enforcement
agencies and local medical facilities, develop an emergency response plan for
each school in the school district in accordance with minimum standards
developed jointly by the department of education and the division of emergency
management within the department of emergency and military affairs.
33.Provide written notice to the parents or
guardians of all students affected in the school district at least ten days
prior to a public meeting to discuss closing a school within the school
district.The notice shall include the reasons for the proposed
closure and the time and place of the meeting.The governing board
shall fix a time for a public meeting on the proposed closure no less than ten
days before voting in a public meeting to close the school. The school
district governing board shall give notice of the time and place of the
meeting.At the time and place designated in the notice, the school
district governing board shall hear reasons for or against closing the
school.The school district governing board is exempt from this
paragraph if it is determined by the governing board that the school shall be
closed because it poses a danger to the health or safety of the pupils or
employees of the school.A governing board may consult with the
school facilities board for technical assistance and for information on the
impact of closing a school. The information provided from the school
facilities board shall not require the governing board to take or not take any
action.
34.Incorporate instruction on Native American
history into appropriate existing curricula.
35.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures:
(a)Allowing pupils who have been diagnosed with
anaphylaxis by a health care provider licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13, 14, 17 or 25 or by a registered nurse practitioner licensed and certified
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 to carry and self-administer emergency
medications, including autoinjectable epinephrine, while at school and
at schoolsponsored activities. The pupil's name on the prescription
label on the medication container or on the medication device and annual
written documentation from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that
authorizes possession and self-administration is sufficient proof that the
pupil is entitled to the possession and selfadministration of the
medication.The policies shall require a pupil who uses
auto-injectable epinephrine while at school and at schoolsponsored
activities to notify the nurse or the designated school staff person of the use
of the medication as soon as practicable. A school district and its employees
are immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions made and actions
taken that are based on good faith implementation of the requirements of this
subdivision, except in cases of wanton or wilful neglect.
(b)For the emergency administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine by a trained employee of a school district pursuant to section 15157.
36.Allow the
possession and self-administration of prescription medication for breathing
disorders in handheld inhaler devices by pupils who have been prescribed that
medication by a health care professional licensed pursuant to title
32.The pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication
container or on the handheld inhaler device and annual written documentation
from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that authorizes possession
and self-administration shall be sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to
the possession and selfadministration of the medication.A
school district and its employees are immune from civil liability with respect
to all decisions made and actions taken that are based on a good faith
implementation of the requirements of this paragraph.
37.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures to
prohibit pupils from harassing, intimidating and bullying other pupils on
school grounds, on school property, on school buses, at school bus stops, at
schoolsponsored events and activities and through the use of electronic
technology or electronic communication on school computers, networks, forums
and mailing lists that include the following components:
(a)A procedure for pupils, parents and school
district employees to confidentially report to school officials incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying.The school shall make
available written forms designed to provide a full and detailed description of
the incident and any other relevant information about the incident.
(b)A requirement that school district employees
report in writing suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
to the appropriate school official and a description of appropriate
disciplinary procedures for employees who fail to report suspected incidents
that are known to the employee.
(c)A requirement that, at the beginning of each
school year, school officials provide all pupils with a written copy of the
rights, protections and support services available to a pupil who is an alleged
victim of an incident reported pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)If an incident is reported pursuant to this
paragraph, a requirement that school officials provide a pupil who is an
alleged victim of the incident with a written copy of the rights, protections
and support services available to that pupil.
(e)A formal process for the documentation of
reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying and for the confidentiality,
maintenance and disposition of this documentation.School districts
shall maintain documentation of all incidents reported pursuant to this
paragraph for at least six years.The school shall not use that
documentation to impose disciplinary action unless the appropriate school
official has investigated and determined that the reported incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying occurred. If a school provides
documentation of reported incidents to persons other than school officials or law
enforcement, all individually identifiable information shall be redacted.
(f)A formal process for the investigation by the
appropriate school officials of suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying, including procedures for notifying the alleged victim on
completion and disposition of the investigation.
(g)Disciplinary procedures for pupils who have
admitted or been found to have committed incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying.
(h)A procedure that sets forth consequences for
submitting false reports of incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
(i)Procedures designed to protect the health and
safety of pupils who are physically harmed as the result of incidents of
harassment, intimidation and bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to
contact emergency medical services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
(j)Definitions of harassment, intimidation and
bullying.
38.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
regarding changing or adopting attendance boundaries that include the following
components:
(a)A procedure for holding public meetings to
discuss attendance boundary changes or adoptions that allows public comments.
(b)A procedure to notify the parents or guardians
of the students affected.
(c)A procedure to notify the residents of the
households affected by the attendance boundary changes.
(d)A process for placing public meeting notices and
proposed maps on the school district's website for public review, if the school
district maintains a website.
(e)A formal process for presenting the attendance
boundaries of the affected area in public meetings that allows public comments.
(f)A formal process for notifying the residents and
parents or guardians of the affected area as to the decision of the governing
board on the school district's website, if the school district maintains a
website.
(g)A formal process for updating attendance
boundaries on the school district's website within ninety days of an adopted
boundary change. The school district shall send a direct link to the school
district's attendance boundaries website to the department of real estate.
(h)If the land that a school was built on was
donated within the past five years, a formal process to notify the entity that
donated the land affected by the decision of the governing board.
39.If the state board of education determines that
the school district has committed an overexpenditure as defined in section 15107,
provide a copy of the fiscal management report submitted pursuant to section 15107,
subsection H on its website and make copies available to the public on
request.The school district shall comply with a request within five
business days after receipt.
40.Ensure that the contract for the superintendent
is structured in a manner in which up to twenty per cent percent of the total annual salary included for the
superintendent in the contract is classified as performance
pay.This paragraph shall not be construed to require school
districts to increase total compensation for superintendents.Unless
the school district governing board votes to implement an alternative procedure
at a public meeting called for this purpose, the performance pay portion of the
superintendent's total annual compensation shall be determined as follows:
(a)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined based on
the percentage of academic gain determined by the department of education of
pupils who are enrolled in the school district compared to the academic gain
achieved by the highest ranking of the fifty largest school districts in this
state.For the purposes of this subdivision, the department of
education shall determine academic gain by the academic growth achieved by each
pupil who has been enrolled at the same school in a school district for at
least five consecutive months measured against that pupil's academic results in
the 20082009 school year.For the purposes of this
subdivision, of the fifty largest school districts in this state, the school
district with pupils who demonstrate the highest statewide percentage of
overall academic gain measured against academic results for the 20082009
school year shall be assigned a score of 100 and the school district with
pupils who demonstrate the lowest statewide percentage of overall academic gain
measured against academic results for the 20082009 school year shall be
assigned a score of 0.
(b)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of parents of pupils who are enrolled at the school district who
assign a letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of parental
satisfaction with the school district.The parental satisfaction
survey shall be administered and scored by an independent entity that is
selected by the governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and
experience to accurately measure the results of the survey. The parental
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each parent who participates in the
survey.The letter grade scale used on the parental satisfaction
survey shall direct parents to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of
"A" if the school district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade
of "B" if the school district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(c)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of teachers who are employed at the school district and who assign a
letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of teacher satisfaction
with the school.The teacher satisfaction survey shall be
administered and scored by an independent entity that is selected by the
governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and experience to
accurately measure the results of the survey.The teacher satisfaction
survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide anonymity and
confidentiality to each teacher who participates in the survey.The
letter grade scale used on the teacher satisfaction survey shall direct
teachers to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(d)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by other
criteria selected by the governing board.
41.Maintain and store permanent public records of
the school district as required by law. Notwithstanding section 39101,
the standards adopted by the Arizona state library, archives and public records
for the maintenance and storage of school district public records shall allow
school districts to elect to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by
maintaining and storing these records either on paper or in an electronic
format, or a combination of a paper and electronic format.
42.Adopt in a public meeting and implement by
school year 20132014 policies for principal
evaluations.Before the adoption of principal evaluation policies,
the school district governing board shall provide opportunities for public
discussion on the proposed policies. The policies shall describe:
(a)The principal evaluation instrument, including
the four performance classifications adopted by the governing board pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37.
(b)Alignment of professional development
opportunities to the principal evaluations.
(c)Incentives for principals in one of the two
highest performance classifications pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38 37, which may include:
(i)Multiyear contracts pursuant to section 15503.
(ii)Incentives to work at schools that are assigned
a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
(d)Transfer and contract processes for principals
designated in the lowest performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38 37.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraphs 7, 9 and
11 of this section, the county school superintendent may construct, improve and
furnish school buildings or purchase or sell school sites in the conduct of an
accommodation school.
C.If any school district acquires real or personal
property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the
governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property
that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and
interest. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on
property acquired by a school district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens.
D.The governing board may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the
agricultural land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of
section 3365.If the owner agrees in writing to comply with
the buffer zone requirements and records the agreement in the office of the
county recorder as a restrictive covenant running with the title to the land,
the school district may locate a school within the affected buffer zone. The
agreement may include any stipulations regarding the school, including
conditions for future expansion of the school and changes in the operational
status of the school that will result in a breach of the agreement.
E.A school district, its governing board members,
its school council members and its employees are immune from civil liability
for the consequences of adoption and implementation of policies and procedures
pursuant to subsection A of this section and section 15342. This waiver
does not apply if the school district, its governing board members, its school
council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
F.A governing board may delegate in writing to a
superintendent, principal or head teacher the authority to prescribe procedures
that are consistent with the governing board's policies.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, a school district governing board shall not take any action that would
result in a reduction of pupil square footage unless the governing board
notifies the school facilities board established by section 152001 of
the proposed action and receives written approval from the school facilities
board to take the action.A reduction includes an increase in
administrative space that results in a reduction of pupil square footage or
sale of school sites or buildings, or both. A reduction includes a
reconfiguration of grades that results in a reduction of pupil square footage
of any grade level.This subsection does not apply to temporary
reconfiguration of grades to accommodate new school construction if the
temporary reconfiguration does not exceed one year.The sale of
equipment that results in a reduction that falls below the equipment requirements
prescribed in section 152011, subsection B is subject to commensurate
withholding of school district district additional assistance monies pursuant
to the direction of the school facilities board.Except as provided
in section 15342, paragraph 10, proceeds from the sale of school sites,
buildings or other equipment shall be deposited in the school plant fund as
provided in section 151102.
H.Subsections C through G of this section apply to
a county board of supervisors and a county school superintendent when operating
and administering an accommodation school. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 15-501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrator" means any school
district administrator except a school principal devoting not less than fifty per cent percent of his the
principal's time to classroom teaching.
2."Certificated teacher" means a person
who holds a certificate from the state board of education to work in the
schools of this state and who is employed under contract in a school district
in a position that requires certification except a psychologist or an
administrator devoting less than fifty per
cent percent
of his the psychologist's time to classroom teaching.
3."Fulltime" means employed for a
full school day, or its equivalent, or for a full class load, or its
equivalent, as determined by the governing board.
4."Governing board" means the governing
board of a school district or a county school superintendent in the case of
accommodation schools located in such county.
5."Inadequacy of classroom performance"
means the definition of inadequacy classroom performance adopted by the
governing board pursuant to section 15538.
6."Major portion of a school year" means
fulltime employment for fiftyone per cent percent of the school days during which school is in
session, except that a certificated teacher is not deemed to have completed the
major portion of the third school year of three consecutive years of employment
until the end of the third school year.
7."Performance classifications" means the
four performance classifications adopted by the state board of education
pursuant to section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37.
8."Qualified evaluator" means a school
principal or other person who is trained to evaluate teachers and who is
designated by the governing board to evaluate the school district's
certificated teachers.
9."Superintendent" means the
superintendent of schools of a school district.
10."Suspension without pay" means
suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school days. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 15-503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-503.Superintendents, principals, head teachers and school
psychologists; terms of employment; evaluation; contract delivery; nonretention
notice
A.The governing board may:
1.Employ a superintendent or principal, or both.
If the governing board employs a superintendent, the governing board shall
determine the qualifications for the superintendent by action taken at a public
meeting. The governing board shall require a superintendent to have a valid
fingerprint clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12,
article 3.1.
2.Appoint a head teacher.
3.Jointly with another governing board employ a
superintendent or a principal, or both. If the governing board jointly employs
a superintendent, the governing boards shall jointly determine the
qualifications for the superintendent by action taken at a public meeting. The
governing boards shall require a superintendent to have a valid fingerprint
clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1.
B.The term of employment of superintendents may be
for any period not exceeding three years, except that if the superintendent's
contract with the school district is for multiple years pursuant to this
subsection the school district shall not offer to extend or renegotiate the
contract until no earlier than fifteen months before the expiration of the
contract. The term of employment of principals may be for any period not
exceeding three years pursuant to section 15341, subsection A, paragraph
42, except that if the principal's contract with the school district is for
multiple years the school district shall not offer to extend or negotiate the
contract until May of the year preceding the final year of the contract. The
school district governing board or the governing body of the charter school
shall communicate the superintendent's or principal's duties with respect to
the classroom site fund established by section 15977.
C.The governing board shall establish systems for
the evaluation of the performance of principals that meet the requirements
prescribed in section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37 and
other school administrators and certificated school psychologists in the school
district.In the development and adoption of these performance
evaluation systems, the governing board shall avail itself of the advice of its
administrators and certificated school psychologists.Each
evaluation shall include recommendations as to areas of improvement in the
performance of the certificated school psychologist if the performance of the
certificated school psychologist warrants improvement.After
transmittal of an assessment, a board designee shall confer with the
certificated school psychologist to make specific recommendations as to areas
of improvement in the certificated school psychologist's
performance.The board designee shall provide assistance and opportunities
for the certificated school psychologist to improve his the
psychologist's performance and shall follow up with the
certificated school psychologist after a reasonable period of time for the
purpose of ascertaining that the certificated school psychologist is
demonstrating adequate performance.The evaluation process for
certificated school psychologists shall include appeal procedures for
certificated school psychologists who disagree with the evaluation of their
performance, if the evaluation is for use as criteria for establishing
compensation or dismissal.
D.On or before May 15 each year, the governing
board shall offer a contract for the next school year to each certified
administrator and certificated school psychologist who is in the last year of his the contract unless, on or before April 15,
the governing board, a member of the board acting on behalf of the board or the
superintendent of the school district gives notice to the administrator or
certificated school psychologist of the board's intention not to offer a new
contract. If the governing board has called for an override election for the
third Tuesday in May as provided in section 15481, the governing board
shall offer a contract for the next school year to each certified administrator
or certificated school psychologist who is in the last year of his the
contract on or before June 15 unless, no later than five days after the
override election excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays, the governing
board, a member of the board acting on behalf of the board or the
superintendent of the school district gives notice to the administrator or the
certificated school psychologist of the board's intention not to offer a new
contract. The administrator's or the certificated school psychologist's
acceptance of the contract shall be indicated within thirty days from the date
of the written contract or the offer is revoked. The administrator or
certificated school psychologist accepts the contract by signing the contract
and returning it to the governing board or by making a written instrument that
accepts the terms of the contract and delivering the written instrument to the
governing board.
E.Notice of the board's intention not to reemploy
the administrator or certificated school psychologist shall be made by
delivering the notice personally to the administrator or the certificated
school psychologist or by sending the notice by certified mail, postmarked on
or before the applicable deadline prescribed in subsection D of this section, and
directed to the administrator or the certificated school psychologist at his the administrator's or psychologist's place
of residence as recorded in the school district records.
F.The school district governing board shall make
available the evaluation and performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38 37 of each principal in the
school district to school districts and charter schools that are inquiring
about the performance of the principal for hiring purposes. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 15-512, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-512.Noncertificated personnel; fingerprinting personnel;
background investigations; affidavit; civil immunity; violation;
classification; definition
A.Noncertificated personnel and personnel who are
not paid employees of the school district and who are not either the parent or
the guardian of a pupil who attends school in the school district but who are
required or allowed to provide services directly to pupils without the
supervision of a certificated employee and who are initially hired by a school
district after January 1, 1990 shall be fingerprinted as a condition of employment
except for personnel who are required as a condition of licensing to be
fingerprinted if the license is required for employment or for personnel who
were previously employed by a school district and who reestablished employment
with that district within one year after the date that the employee terminated
employment with the district.A school district may require
noncertificated personnel and personnel who are not paid employees of the
school district and who are not either the parent or the guardian of a pupil
who attends school in the school district but who are required or allowed to
provide services directly to pupils without the supervision of a certificated
employee to obtain a fingerprint clearance card as a condition of employment.Even
if the school district does not require a fingerprint clearance card as a
condition of employment, noncertificated personnel and personnel who are not
paid employees of the school district and who are not either the parent or the
guardian of a pupil who attends school in the school district but who are
required or allowed to provide services directly to pupils without the
supervision of a certificated employee may apply for a fingerprint clearance
card.A school district may release the results of a background
check or communicate whether the person has been issued or denied a fingerprint
clearance card to another school district for employment
purposes.The employee's fingerprints and the form prescribed in
subsection D of this section shall be submitted to the school district within
twenty days after the date an employee begins work.A school
district may terminate an employee if the information on the form provided
under subsection D of this section is inconsistent with the information received
from the fingerprint check or the information received in connection with a
fingerprint clearance card application.The school district shall
develop procedures for fingerprinting employees.For the purposes of
this subsection, "supervision" means under the direction of and,
except for brief periods of time during a school day or a school activity,
within sight of a certificated employee when providing direct services to
pupils.
B.Fingerprints submitted pursuant to this section
shall be used to conduct a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to
section 411750 and Public Law 92544. The department of public
safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of
investigation.
C.The school district shall assume the costs of
fingerprint checks and fingerprint clearance cards and may charge these costs
to its fingerprinted employee, except that the school district may not charge
the costs of the fingerprint check or the fingerprint clearance card to
personnel of the school district who are not paid employees. The fees charged
for fingerprinting shall be deposited with the county treasurer who shall
credit the deposit to the fingerprint fund of the school
district.The costs charged to a fingerprinted employee are limited
to and the proceeds in the fund may only be applied to the actual costs,
including personnel costs, incurred as a result of the fingerprint checks or
the fingerprint clearance cards.The fingerprint fund is a
continuing fund that is not subject to reversion.
D.Personnel required to be fingerprinted or obtain
a fingerprint clearance card as prescribed in subsection A of this section
shall certify on forms that are provided by the school and notarized whether
they are awaiting trial on or have ever been convicted of or admitted in open
court or pursuant to a plea agreement committing any of the following criminal
offenses in this state or similar offenses in another jurisdiction:
1.Sexual abuse of a minor.
2.Incest.
3.First or second degree murder.
4.Kidnapping.
5.Arson.
6.Sexual assault.
7.Sexual exploitation of a minor.
8.Felony offenses involving contributing to the
delinquency of a minor.
9.Commercial sexual exploitation of a minor.
10.Felony offenses involving sale, distribution or
transportation of, offer to sell, transport, or distribute or conspiracy to
sell, transport or distribute marijuana or dangerous or narcotic drugs.
11.Felony offenses involving the possession or use
of marijuana, dangerous drugs or narcotic drugs.
12.Misdemeanor offenses involving the possession or
use of marijuana or dangerous drugs.
13.Burglary in the first degree.
14.Burglary in the second or third degree.
15.Aggravated or armed robbery.
16.Robbery.
17.A dangerous crime against children as defined in
section 13705.
18.Child abuse.
19.Sexual conduct with a minor.
20.Molestation of a child.
21.Manslaughter.
22.Aggravated assault.
23.Assault.
24.Exploitation of minors involving drug offenses.
E.A school district may refuse to hire or may review
or terminate personnel who have been convicted of or admitted committing any of
the criminal offenses prescribed in subsection D of this section or of a
similar offense in another jurisdiction.A school district that is
considering terminating an employee pursuant to this subsection shall hold a
hearing to determine whether a person already employed shall be
terminated.In conducting a review, the governing board shall
utilize the guidelines, including the list of offenses that are not subject to
review, as prescribed by the state board of education pursuant to section 15534,
subsection C.In considering whether to hire or terminate the
employment of a person,
the governing board shall take into account the following factors:
1.The nature of the crime and the potential for
crimes against children.
2.Offenses committed as a minor for which
proceedings were held under the jurisdiction of a juvenile or an adult court.
3.Offenses that have been expunged by a court of
competent jurisdiction, if the person has been pardoned or if the person's
sentence has been commuted.
4.The employment record of the person since the
commission of the crime if the crime was committed more than ten years before
the governing board's consideration of whether to hire or terminate the person.
5.The reliability of the evidence of an admission
of a crime unless made under oath in a court of competent jurisdiction.
F.Before employment with the school district, the
district shall make documented, good faith efforts to contact previous
employers of a person to obtain information and recommendations that may be
relevant to a person's fitness for employment.A governing board
shall adopt procedures for conducting background investigations required by
this subsection, including one or more standard forms for use by school
district officials to document their efforts to obtain information from
previous employers.A school district may provide information
received as a result of a background investigation required by this section to
any other school district, to any other public school and to any public entity
that agrees pursuant to a contract or intergovernmental agreement to perform
background investigations for school districts or other public
schools.School districts and other public schools may enter into
intergovernmental agreements pursuant to section 11952 and cooperative
purchasing agreements pursuant to rules adopted in accordance with section 15213
for the purposes of performing or contracting for the performance of background
investigations and for sharing the results of background investigations
required by this subsection. Information obtained about an employee or
applicant for employment by any school district or other public school in the
performance of a background investigation may be retained by that school
district or the other public school or by any public entity that agrees
pursuant to contract to perform background investigations for school districts
or other public schools and may be provided to any school district or other
public school that is performing a background investigation required by this
subsection.
G.A school district may fingerprint or require any
other employee of the district to obtain a fingerprint clearance card, whether
paid or not, or any other applicant for employment with the school district not
otherwise required by this section to be fingerprinted or obtain a fingerprint
clearance card on the condition that the school district may not charge the
costs of the fingerprint check or fingerprint clearance card to the
fingerprinted applicant or nonpaid employee.
H.A contractor, subcontractor or vendor or any
employee of a contractor, subcontractor or vendor who is contracted to provide
services on a regular basis at an individual school shall obtain a valid
fingerprint clearance card pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1. A
school district governing board shall adopt policies to exempt a person from
the requirements of this subsection if the person's normal job duties are not likely
to result in independent access to or unsupervised contact with pupils. A
school district, its governing board members, its school council members and
its employees are exempt from civil liability for the consequences of adoption
and implementation of policies and procedures pursuant to this subsection
unless the school district, its governing board members, its school council
members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
I.Subsection A of this section does not apply to a
person who provides instruction or other education services to a pupil, with
the written consent of the parent or guardian of the pupil, under a work
release program, advance placement course or other education program that
occurs off school property.
J.Public entities that agree pursuant to contract
to perform background investigations, public schools, the department of
education, the state board of education
and previous employers who provide information pursuant to this section are
immune from civil liability unless the information provided is false and is
acted on by the school district to the harm of the employee and the public
entity, the public school, the previous employer, state board of education or the department of education knows
the information is false or acts with reckless disregard of the information's
truth or falsity. A school district that relies on information obtained
pursuant to this section in making employment decisions is immune from civil
liability for use of the information unless the information obtained is false
and the school district knows the information is false or acts with reckless
disregard of the information's truth or falsity.
K.The superintendent of a school district or chief
administrator of a charter school or the person's designee who is responsible
for implementing the governing board's policy regarding background
investigations required by subsection F of this section and who fails to carry
out that responsibility is guilty of unprofessional conduct and shall be
subject to disciplinary action by the state board.
L.A school district may hire noncertificated
personnel before receiving the results of the fingerprint check or a
fingerprint clearance card but may terminate employment if the information on
the form provided in subsection D of this section is inconsistent with the
information received from the fingerprint check or the fingerprint clearance
card.In addition to any other conditions or requirements deemed
necessary by the superintendent of public instruction to protect the health and
safety of pupils, noncertificated personnel who are required or allowed
unsupervised contact with pupils may be hired by school districts before the
results of a fingerprint check are received or a fingerprint clearance card is
issued if all of the following conditions are met:
1.The school district that is seeking to hire the
applicant shall document in the applicant's file the necessity for hiring and
placement of the applicant before a fingerprint check could be completed or a
fingerprint clearance card could be issued.
2.The school district that is seeking to hire the
applicant shall do all of the following:
(a)Ensure that the department of public safety
completes a statewide criminal history information check on the
applicant.A statewide criminal history information check shall be
completed by the department of public safety every one hundred twenty days
until the date that the fingerprint check is completed or the fingerprint
clearance card is issued or denied.
(b)Obtain references from the applicant's current
employer and two most recent previous employers except for applicants who have
been employed for at least five years by the applicant's most recent employer.
(c)Provide general supervision of the applicant
until the date that the fingerprint check is completed or the fingerprint
clearance card is issued or denied.
(d)Report to the superintendent of public
instruction on June 30 and December 31 each year the number of applicants hired
before the completion of a fingerprint check or the issuance of a fingerprint
clearance card.In addition, the school district shall report the
number of applicants for whom fingerprint checks were not received or
fingerprint clearance cards were not issued after one hundred twenty days and
after one hundred seventyfive days of hire.
M.Notwithstanding any other law, this section does
not apply to pupils who attend school in a school district and who are also
employed by a school district.
N.A person who makes a false statement,
representation or certification in any application for employment with the
school district is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
O.For the purposes of this section,
"background investigation" means any communication with an employee's
or applicant's former employer that concerns the education, training,
experience, qualifications and job performance of the employee or applicant and
that is used for the purpose of evaluating the employee or applicant for
employment.Background investigation does not include the results of
any state or federal criminal history records check. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 15-514, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-514.Immoral or unprofessional conduct of certificated persons;
duty to report; immunity
A.Any certificated person or governing board member
who reasonably suspects or receives a reasonable allegation that a person
certificated by the state board of education has engaged in conduct involving
minors that would be subject to the reporting requirements of section 133620
shall report or cause reports to be made to the department state board of education in writing as soon as
is reasonably practicable but not later than three business days after the
person first suspects or receives an allegation of the conduct.
B.The superintendent of a school district or the
chief administrator of a charter school who reasonably suspects or receives a
reasonable allegation that an act of immoral or unprofessional conduct that
would constitute grounds for dismissal or criminal charges by a certificated
person has occurred shall report the conduct to the department state board of education.
C.A person who reports or provides information
pursuant to this section regarding the immoral or unprofessional conduct of a
certificated person in good faith is not subject to an action for civil damages
as a result.
D.A governing board or school or school district
employee who has control over personnel decisions shall not take unlawful
reprisal against an employee because the employee reports in good faith
information as required by this section.For the purposes of this
subsection,
"unlawful reprisal" means an action that is taken by a governing
board as a direct result of a lawful report pursuant to this section and, with
respect to the employee, results in one or more of the following:
1.Disciplinary action.
2.Transfer or reassignment.
3.Suspension, demotion or dismissal.
4.An unfavorable performance evaluation.
5.Other significant changes in duties or
responsibilities that are inconsistent with the employee's salary or employment
classification.
E.Failure to report information as required by this
section by a certificated person constitutes grounds for disciplinary action by
the state board of education.
F.A governing board or school district employee who
has control over personnel decisions and who reasonably suspects or receives a
reasonable allegation that a person certificated by the state board of
education has engaged in conduct involving minors that would be subject to the
reporting requirements of section 133620 and this article shall not
accept the resignation of the certificate holder until these suspicions or
allegations have been reported to the state board of education. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 15-534.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-534.01.Withdrawal of applications for administrative
deficiencies; denial of applications for substantive deficiencies;
certification time frames
A.If an application for certification is
administratively incomplete, as prescribed in title 41, chapter 6, article 7.1,
the department of education or the state
board of education shall issue a written notice requesting the
applicant to supply missing documents or other information. The department of
education shall consider an application for certification withdrawn if, within
sixty days after the date of the notice, the applicant does not supply the
documentation or information requested or does not provide reasonable
documented justification for the delay. On receipt of documented
justification, the department of education shall provide an additional thirty
days for the requested documentation or information to be provided before
considering an application withdrawn.
B.If an application for certification is
substantively incomplete, as prescribed in title 41, chapter 6, article 7.1, the department of education or
the state board of education may issue a written notice requesting the
applicant to supply additional documents or other information.The
state board of education or the
department of education shall deny an application for
certification if, within sixty days after the date of the notice, the applicant
does not supply the documentation or information requested.
C.If the final day of a deadline imposed by this
section falls on a Saturday, Sunday or other legal holiday, the next business
day is the final day of the deadline.
D.A notice of denial of an application for
certification issued by the state board of education or the department of education pursuant to
subsection B of this section shall comply with section 411076.
E.A person who has had an application for
certification denied by the state board of education or the department of education pursuant to
subsection B of this section may file a written request for a hearing with the
state board of education within fifteen days after receiving the notice of
denial.The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with title 41,
chapter 6, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 15-537, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-537.Performance of certificated teachers; evaluation system;
confidentiality
A.The governing board of a school district shall
establish a system for the evaluation of the performance of certificated
teachers in the school district that meets the requirements prescribed in
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37 and
that results in at least one evaluation of each certificated teacher by a
qualified evaluator each school year.The objectives of the teacher
performance evaluation system are to improve instruction and maintain
instructional strengths.The governing board shall involve its
certificated teachers in the development and periodic evaluation of the teacher
performance evaluation system.
B.The school district governing board shall adopt
teacher evaluation policies in a public meeting. Before the adoption of
teacher evaluation policies, the school district governing board shall provide
opportunities for public discussion on the proposed policies. The policies
shall describe:
1.Incentives for teachers in the highest
performance classification, which may include multiyear contracts not to exceed
three years.The policies shall specify that the offer and
acceptance of a multiyear contract does not exclude that teacher from the
application of section 15538.01, 15540, 15541 or 15549
and that the teacher may accept a multiyear contract offer or decline and
accept a one year contract.
2.Incentives for teachers in the two highest
performance classifications to work at schools that are assigned a letter grade
of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
3.Protections for teachers who are transferred to
schools that are assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
4.Protections for teachers if the principal of the
school is designated in the lowest performance classification.
C.By school year 20152016, the policies
prescribed in subsection B of this section shall describe:
1.Performance improvement plans for teachers
designated in the lowest performance classification.
2.Dismissal or nonrenewal procedures pursuant to
section 15536 or 15539 for teachers who continue to be designated
in the lowest performance classification. The procedures shall require that
the school district issue the preliminary notice of inadequacy of classroom
performance no later than the second consecutive year that the teacher is
designated in one of the two lowest performance classifications unless the
teacher is in the first or second year of employment with the school district
or has been reassigned to teach a new subject or grade level for the preceding
or current school year.
D.A teacher who has been employed by the school
district for the major portion of three or more consecutive school years and
who is currently designated in the lowest performance classification for two
consecutive school years shall not be transferred as a teacher to another
school in that school district unless the school district has issued a
preliminary notice of inadequacy of classroom performance and approved a
performance improvement plan for the teacher pursuant to section 15539
and the governing board has approved the new placement as in the best interests
of the pupils in the school.A teacher who continues to be
designated in one of the two lowest performance classifications shall not be
permitted to transfer to another school.A teacher shall not be
transferred more than once pursuant to this subsection.
E.The governing board shall prescribe specific
procedures for the teacher performance evaluation system, which shall include
at least the following elements:
1.At least two actual classroom observations of the
certificated teacher demonstrating teaching skills in a complete and
uninterrupted lesson by the qualified evaluator. There shall be at least sixty
calendar days between the first and last observations.The last
observation may follow the issuance of a preliminary notice of inadequacy of
classroom performance and be used to determine whether the teacher has
corrected inadequacies and has demonstrated adequate classroom
performance.An observation shall not be conducted within two
instructional days of any scheduled period in which school is not in session
for one week or more.Within ten business days after each
observation, the qualified evaluator shall provide written feedback to the
teacher.
2.Specific and reasonable plans for the improvement
of teacher performance as provided in subsection H of this section.
3.Appeal procedures for teachers who disagree with
the evaluation of their performance, if the evaluation is for use as criteria
for establishing compensation.
4.Training requirements for qualified evaluators.
5.A plan for the appropriate use of quantitative
data of student academic progress in evaluations of all certificated teachers.
The plan may make distinctions between certificated teachers who provide direct
instruction to students and certificated teachers who do not provide direct
instruction to students. The plan may include data for multiple school years
and may limit the use of data for certificated teachers who have taught for
less than two complete school years.
F.The governing board may waive the requirement of
a second classroom observation for a continuing teacher whose teaching
performance based on the first classroom observation places the teacher in one
of the two highest performance classifications for the current school year,
unless the teacher requests a second observation.
G.The results of an annual evaluation conducted as
provided in this section shall be in writing or provided in an electronic format to the certificated
teacher, and a copy shall
be transmitted or provided in an electronic format to the certificated teacher
within five days after completion of the evaluation.The
certificated teacher may initiate a written reaction or response to the
evaluation.
H.Each evaluation shall include recommendations as
to areas of improvement in the performance of the certificated teacher if the
performance of the teacher warrants improvement.After transmittal
of an evaluation, the qualified evaluator or another board designee shall
confer with the teacher to make specific recommendations as to areas of
improvement in the teacher's performance.The qualified evaluator or
other board designee shall provide professional development opportunities for
the certificated teacher to improve performance and follow up with the teacher
after a reasonable period of time for the purpose of ascertaining that the
teacher is demonstrating adequate performance.
I.Copies of the evaluation report and performance
classification of a certificated teacher that are retained by the governing board and the department
of education are confidential, do not constitute a public record and shall not
be released or shown to any person except:
1.To the certificated teacher who may make any use
of it.
2.To authorized district officers and employees for
all personnel matters regarding employment and contracts and for any hearing
that relates to personnel matters.
3.To school districts and charter schools that
inquire about the performance of the teacher for prospective employment
purposes. A school district or charter school that receives information about
a certificated teacher from the evaluation report and performance
classification shall use this information solely for employment purposes and
shall not release this information to
or allow access to this information by any other person, entity, school
district or charter school.
4.For introduction in evidence or discovery in any
court action between the governing board and the certificated teacher in which
either:
(a)The competency of the teacher is at issue.
(b)The evaluation and performance classification
were an exhibit at a hearing, the result of which is challenged.
J.Any school district policy pertaining to the
transfer of teachers from one school to another school in a school district
shall take into consideration the current distribution of teachers across all
of the performance classifications and the needs of the pupils in the school
district. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section
15-539, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-539.Dismissal of certificated teacher; due process; written
charges; notice; hearing on request
A.On a written
statement of charges presented by the superintendent, charging that there
exists cause for the suspension without pay for a period of time greater than
ten school days or dismissal of a certificated teacher of the district, the
governing board, except as otherwise provided in this article, shall give
notice to the teacher of its intention to suspend without pay or dismiss the
teacher at the expiration of ten days from the date of the service of the
notice.
B.Whenever the superintendent presents a statement
of charges wherein the alleged cause for dismissal constitutes immoral or
unprofessional conduct, the governing board may adopt a resolution that a
complaint be filed with the department
state board of
education.Pending disciplinary action by the state board of education, the certificated
teacher may be reassigned by the superintendent or placed on administrative
leave by the governing board pursuant to section 15540.
C.Except as provided in section 15536, the
governing board shall give a certificated teacher written preliminary notice of
inadequacy of classroom performance pursuant to section 15538 if its
intention to dismiss is based on charges of inadequacy of classroom
performance.If within the time specified in the written preliminary
notice of inadequacy of classroom performance the teacher does not demonstrate
adequate classroom performance, the governing board shall dismiss the teacher
either within ten days of the service of a subsequent notice of intention to
dismiss or by the end of the contract year in which the subsequent notice of
intention to dismiss is served unless the teacher has requested a hearing as
provided in subsection F of this section. If the teacher demonstrates adequate
classroom performance during the period allowed to correct such deficiencies as
specified in the written preliminary notice of inadequacy of classroom
performance, the governing board may not dismiss the teacher for the reasons
specified in the written preliminary notice of inadequacy of classroom
performance.If the governing
board of a school district has received approval to budget for a career ladder
program, the governing board may define inadequacy of classroom performance by
establishing a single level of performance that is required of all teachers or
by establishing more than one required level of performance. If more than one
level is established, the same level of performance for minimum adequacy shall
be required of all teachers who have completed the same number of years of
teaching in the district.
D.Any written statement of charges alleging
unprofessional conduct, conduct in violation of the rules or policies of the
governing board or inadequacy of classroom performance shall specify instances
of behavior and the acts or omissions constituting the charge so that the
certificated teacher will be able to prepare a defense.If
applicable, it shall state the statutes, rules or written objectives of the
governing board that the certificated teacher is alleged to have violated and
set forth the facts relevant to each occasion of alleged unprofessional conduct,
conduct in violation of the rules or policies of the governing board or
inadequacy of classroom performance.
E.The notice shall be in writing and shall be
served on the certificated teacher personally or by United States registered or
certified mail addressed to the teacher's last known address.A copy
of the charges, together with a copy of this section and sections 15501,
15538.01, 15540, 15541, 15542, 15544, 15545,
15546 and 15547, shall be attached to the notice.
F.The certificated teacher who receives notice that
there exists cause for dismissal or suspension without pay shall have the right
to a hearing if the teacher files a written request with the governing board
within ten days of service of notice.The filing of a timely request
shall suspend the imposition of a suspension without pay or a dismissal pending
completion of the hearing. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section
15-552, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-552.Alternative teacher development program; report; program
termination
A.The state board of
education shall establish rules and
policies for an alternative teacher development program to be administered by the department of
education for the purpose of accelerating the process of
identifying, training and placing highly qualified individuals into low income low-income schools through the use of teaching
intern certification and the identification of a qualified service provider.
B.Subject to review and approval by the state board of
education, the department of education shall develop application
procedures, selection criteria and minimum performance standards for service
providers that wish to participate in the program.
C.The state board of
education shall award a matching grant to a service provider that meets all of
the requirements of this section. The amount of the matching grant shall be
equal to the matching monies raised by the service provider, not to exceed the
total of monies appropriated to the alternative teacher development program.
The service provider that receives the matching grant shall demonstrate that
its alternative teacher development program serves public schools in this state
and meets all of the following requirements:
1.Is a nonprofit
501(c)(3) organization that has been providing alternative teacher recruitment
and placement in this state for a period of not less than ten years.
2.Serves only public
schools that provide instruction to student populations in which a majority of
the students are from low income lowincome households.
3.Requires that
individuals seeking to participate in the alternative teacher development
program offered by the service provider have attained a baccalaureate degree
from an accredited institution.
4.Maintains a
competitive application and selection process for individuals seeking to
participate in the alternative teacher development program offered by the
service provider.
5.Requires all individuals
who participate in the alternative teacher development program to commit to
serve as a teacher in a low income
lowincome public
school in this state for not less than two years.
6.Provides ongoing
support, evaluations and professional development to teachers placed in a
classroom through the alternative teacher development program.
D.The service provider
selected to participate in the alternative teacher development program shall
annually report at least the following information to the department of
education:
1.The number of
teachers placed in low income
low-income schools by the
service provider.
2.The number of
students served by teachers placed in low
income lowincome
schools by the service provider.
3.Demographic data
concerning the aggregate composition of students in classrooms served by
teachers placed by the service provider.
4.A listing of the
school districts and schools in which teachers were placed by the service
provider.
5.A total of all
matching monies raised by the service provider.
E.The department state board of education shall submit an
annual report prepared by the department of education and approved by
the state board of education on or before December 15 of each
year concerning the alternative teacher development program to the governor,
the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives
that includes an evaluation of the effectiveness of the program. The department of education state board shall provide a
copy of the report to the secretary of state. The report shall include a
comparison of the annual academic achievement gain of students served by
teachers participating in the alternative teacher development program and
students served by beginning teachers in the same school.
F.The program
established by this section ends on July 1, 2020. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 15-756, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-756.Identification of English language learners
A.The primary or home language for all new pupils
who enroll in a school district or charter school shall be identified in a
manner prescribed by the state board of
education and administered by the superintendent of public
instruction.
B.The English language proficiency of all pupils
with a primary or home language other than English shall be assessed through
the administration of English language proficiency assessments in a manner
prescribed by the state board of
education and administered by the superintendent of public
instruction. The test scores adopted by the superintendent state board as indicating English language
proficiency shall be based on the test publishers' designated
scores.The department of
education shall annually request an appropriation to pay for the
purchase of all language proficiency assessments,
and scoring and ancillary materials as prescribed by the department state board for school districts and charter
schools.
C.If it is determined that a pupil is not English
language proficient, the pupil shall be classified as an English language
learner and shall be enrolled in an English language education program pursuant
to section 15752 or 15753.END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 15-756.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-756.06.Reevaluation of former English language learners
The English language proficiency of each pupil who was previously classified as an English
language learner within the last two years shall be tested annually at the end
of each school year, in the same manner as provided in section 15756,
subsection B.The superintendent
of public instruction state
board of education shall prescribe and the superintendent of public instruction shall
administer the manner in which pupils are
reevaluated.Pupils who fail to demonstrate English proficiency on
the reassessment test in the two years following their exit from structured
English immersion, subject to parental consent, shall be reenrolled in
structured English immersion pursuant to section 15752 and may be
provided compensatory instruction as defined in section 15756.11. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 15-756.07, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-756.07.Office of English language acquisition services; duties
The office of English language acquisition services is
established in the department of education. Subject to review and approval by the state board of
education, the department of education, office of English
language acquisition services, shall:
1.Develop guidelines for monitoring school
districts and charter schools to ensure compliance with all federal and state
laws regarding English language learners.
2.In consultation with county school
superintendents, develop regional programs to enhance all aspects of training
for teachers and administrators.
3.Publish English language learner policy
guidelines for school districts and charter schools that include a list of
relevant rules, regulations and statutes relating to English language learner
programs to notify school districts and charter schools of their
responsibilities.
4.Provide technical assistance to school districts
and charter schools to implement structured English immersion programs. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 15-795.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-795.01.Competency-based college-ready
educational pathways
In accordance with the rules adopted by the state board of
education pursuant to section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 39 38, students who are eligible for a high
school diploma through the fulfillment of a defined competency-based
college-ready educational pathway shall have multiple pathways available to
them and may:
1.Enroll the following fall semester in a community
college under the jurisdiction of a community college district in this
state.Community colleges under the jurisdiction of a community
college district in this state shall admit students who obtain a high school diploma
through the fulfillment of a defined competency-based educational pathway and
who otherwise meet the qualifications for admission.The school
district or charter school from which the student earned the high school
diploma shall include that student in the school district's or charter school's
student count and shall continue to receive per pupil funding for a student who
earns a high school diploma until that student would otherwise have graduated
at the end of grade twelve, as long as that student is enrolled as a full-time
student in a community college under the jurisdiction of a community college
district in this state. The school district or charter school shall subtract
twenty per cent percent of its average daily
membership amount and reimburse the community college if the student has earned
a high school diploma and is attending a community college as a full-time
student.If the student attends community college on a community
college campus, the school district or charter school shall reimburse the
community college district for the amount of operating and capital outlay
full-time student equivalency monies.For the purposes of this
paragraph, the amount of operating full-time student equivalency monies shall
be equivalent to the average appropriation per full-time student equivalent for
all community college districts as calculated pursuant to section 151466,
subsection C, paragraph 2. Fifty per
cent percent
of the remaining balance of the per pupil funding shall be used for teacher and
pupil incentives, including scholarship programs, to offset the costs of
competency-based pathways and to provide customized programs of assistance for
students who do not demonstrate mastery.The other fifty per cent percent shall be used for maintenance and
operations, including capital. Under this paragraph, a student who earns a high
school diploma is responsible for tuition.A student who earns a
high school diploma may enroll in community college courses offered on a
community college campus or a high school campus, or
both.Notwithstanding any other law, community college districts
shall not classify a student who remains in high school pursuant to this
paragraph as a fulltime equivalent student. Students who take courses
on high school campuses pursuant to this paragraph shall be eligible to
participate in extracurricular activities, including interscholastic sports,
through the end of grade twelve.The expenditure by community
college districts of payments from the school district or charter school to the
community colleges under this section shall not be included under the district
expenditure limitation prescribed pursuant to article IX, section 21,
Constitution of Arizona.If the instruction provided under this
paragraph is offered on a community college campus, the funding and
implementation mechanics between the school district or charter school and the
community college shall be determined by agreement between the school district
or charter school and the community college.
2.Remain in high school and participate in programs
of study available to students through the school district or charter
school.The school district or charter school shall continue to
include that student in the school district's or charter school's student count
and shall continue to receive per pupil funding for a student who is eligible
for a high school diploma until that student would otherwise have graduated at
the end of grade twelve, as long as that student is enrolled in approved
advanced preparation programs of study at that school district or charter
school. Students who elect to remain in high school pursuant to this paragraph
shall not be prevented from enrolling at a high school after the student
becomes eligible for a high school diploma and shall be eligible to participate
in extracurricular activities, including interscholastic sports, through the
end of grade twelve.
3.Enroll in a full-time career and technical
education program offered on a high school campus or a joint technical
education district campus, or any combination of these campuses. A student who
elects to remain in high school pursuant to this paragraph shall not be
prevented from enrolling at a high school after the pupil becomes eligible for
a high school diploma and shall be eligible to participate in extracurricular
activities, including interscholastic sports, through the end of grade
twelve.The school district or charter school from which the student
became eligible for the high school diploma shall include that student in the school
district's or charter school's student count and shall continue to receive per
pupil funding for a student who is eligible for a high school diploma until
that student would otherwise have graduated at the end of grade twelve, as long
as that student is enrolled in an approved full-time career and technical
education program.Notwithstanding any other law, if the instruction
provided under this paragraph is provided by a joint technical education
district in a full-time career and technical education program that is designed
to lead to a certificate that is awarded by an industry or recognized as
meeting industry standards, the sum of the average daily membership for that
pupil shall not exceed 1.25, and the average daily membership shall be apportioned
at 1.0 for the joint technical education district and 0.25 for the school
district.
4.If accepted for admission to a university under
the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, enroll in the university
after completion of additional high school coursework designed to prepare
students for admission to selective postsecondary institutions that offer
baccalaureate degrees. The school district or charter school from which the
student earned the high school diploma shall include that student in the school
district's or charter school's student count and shall continue to receive per
pupil funding for a student who earns a high school diploma until that student
would otherwise have graduated at the end of grade twelve for as long as that
student is enrolled as a full-time student in the university. One-third of the
school district's or charter school's average daily membership amount shall be
retained by the school district or the operator of the charter school. Onethird
of the school district's or charter school's average daily membership amount
shall be retained for use at the school site. One-third of the school
district's or charter school's average daily membership amount shall be
distributed as follows:
(a)Fifty per
cent percent
of this amount shall be deposited in a scholarship account established and
managed by the school district or charter school from which the student
graduated specifically for a student who qualifies for a diploma and who
attends a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents as
a full-time student.
(b)Fifty per
cent percent
of this amount shall be retained by the university where the student is
enrolled. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 15-977, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-977.Classroom site fund; definitions
A.The classroom site fund is established consisting of monies
transferred to the fund pursuant to section 37521, subsection B and
section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 10.The department of
education shall administer the fund. School districts and charter schools may
not supplant existing school site funding with revenues from the
fund.All monies distributed from the fund are intended for use at
the school site.Each school district or charter school shall
allocate forty per cent
percent of the monies for teacher compensation increases based on
performance and employment related expenses, twenty per cent percent of the monies for teacher base salary increases and
employment related expenses and forty per
cent percent
of the monies for maintenance and operation purposes as prescribed in
subsection H of this section.Teacher
compensation increases based on performance or teacher base salary increases
distributed pursuant to this subsection shall supplement, and not
supplant, teacher compensation monies from any other sources. The school district or charter school shall notify each
school principal of the amount available to the school by April 15 of
each year.The district or charter school
shall request from the school's principal each school's priority for the
allocation of the funds available to the school for each program listed under
subsection H of this section.The
amount budgeted by the school district or charter school pursuant to this
section shall not be included in the allowable budget balance carryforward
calculated pursuant to section 15943.01.
B.A school district governing board must adopt a
performance based compensation system at a public hearing to allocate funding
from the classroom site fund pursuant to subsection A of this section. Beginning in school year 20142015,
Individual teacher performance as measured by the teacher's performance classification
pursuant to section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37 shall
be a component of the school district's portion of the forty per cent percent allocation for teacher compensation based on
performance and employment related expenses.
C.A school district governing board shall vote on a
performance based compensation system that includes the following elements:
1.School district performance and school
performance.
2.Individual teacher performance as measured by the
teacher's performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38 37. Beginning in school year 20142015, The
individual teacher performance component shall account for thirty-three per cent percent of the forty percent percent allocation for teacher compensation
based on performance and employment related expenses.
3.Measures of academic progress toward the academic
standards adopted by the state board of education.
4.Other measures of academic progress.
5.Dropout or graduation rates.
6.Attendance rates.
7.Ratings of school quality by parents.
8.Ratings of school quality by students.
9.The input of teachers and administrators.
10.Approval of the performance based compensation
system based on an affirmative vote of at least seventy per cent percent of the teachers eligible to participate in the
performance based compensation system.
11.An appeals process for teachers who have been
denied performance based compensation.
12.Regular evaluation for effectiveness, which
shall comply by fiscal year 20142015
with section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38 37.
D.A performance based compensation system shall
include teacher professional development programs that are aligned with the
elements of the performance based compensation system.
E.A school district governing board may modify the
elements contained in subsection C of this section and consider additional
elements when adopting a performance based compensation system.A
school district governing board shall adopt any modifications or additional
elements and specify the criteria used at a public hearing.
F.Until December 31, 2009, each school district
shall develop an assessment plan for its performance based compensation system
and submit the plan to the department of education by December 31 of each
year. A copy of the performance based compensation system and assessment plan
adopted by the school district governing board shall be included in the report
submitted to the department of education.
G.Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated, are exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing of appropriations and shall be distributed as follows:
1.By March 30 of each year, the staff of the joint
legislative budget committee shall determine a per pupil amount from the fund
for the budget year using the estimated statewide weighted count for the
current year pursuant to section 15943, paragraph 2, subdivision (a) and
based on estimated available resources in the classroom site fund for the
budget year adjusted for any prior year carryforward or shortfall.
2.The allocation to each charter school and school
district for a fiscal year shall equal the per pupil amount established in
paragraph 1 of this subsection for the fiscal year multiplied by the weighted
student count for the school district or charter school for the fiscal year
pursuant to section 15943, paragraph 2, subdivision (a).For
the purposes of this paragraph, the weighted student count for a school
district that serves as the district of attendance for nonresident pupils shall
be increased to include nonresident pupils who attend school in the school
district.
H.Monies distributed from
the classroom site fund shall be spent for the following maintenance and
operation purposes: 
1.Class size reduction.
2.Teacher compensation
increases.
3.AIMS intervention
programs.
4.Teacher development.
5.Dropout prevention
programs.
6.Teacher liability
insurance premiums.
I.The district governing
board or charter school shall allocate the classroom site fund monies to
include, wherever possible, the priorities identified by the principals of the
schools while assuring that the funds maximize classroom opportunities and
conform to the authorized expenditures identified in subsection A of this
section.
J.School districts and
charter schools that receive monies from the classroom site fund shall submit a
report by November 15 of each year to the superintendent of public instruction
that provides an accounting of the expenditures of monies distributed from the
fund during the previous fiscal year and a summary of the results of
district and school programs funded with monies distributed from the fund.The department of education in conjunction with
the auditor general shall prescribe the format of the report under this
subsection.
K.School districts and
charter schools that receive monies from the classroom site fund shall receive
these monies monthly in an amount not to exceed onetwelfth of the
monies estimated pursuant to subsection G of this section, except that if there
are insufficient monies in the fund that month to make payments, the
distribution for that month shall be prorated for each school district or
charter school. The department of education may make an additional payment in
the current month for any prior month or months in which school districts or
charter schools received a prorated payment if there are sufficient monies in
the fund that month for the additional payments. The state is not required to
make payments to a school district or charter school classroom site fund if the
state classroom site fund revenue collections are insufficient to meet the
estimated allocations to school districts and charter schools pursuant to
subsection G of this section.
L.The state education system for committed youth
shall receive monies from the classroom site fund in the same manner as school
districts and charter schools. The Arizona state schools for the deaf and the
blind shall receive monies from the classroom site fund in an amount that corresponds
to the weighted student count for the current year pursuant to section 15943,
paragraph 2, subdivision (b) for each pupil enrolled in the Arizona state
schools for the deaf and the blind. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, the Arizona state schools for the deaf and the blind and the state
education system for committed youth are subject to this section in the same
manner as school districts and charter schools.
M.Each school district and charter school,
including school districts that unify pursuant to section 15448 or
consolidate pursuant to section 15459, shall establish a local level
classroom site fund to receive allocations from the state level classroom site
fund.The local level classroom site fund shall be a budgetary controlled
account.Interest charges for any registered warrants for the local
level classroom site fund shall be a charge against the local level classroom
site fund.Interest earned on monies in the local level classroom
site fund shall be added to the local level classroom site fund as provided in
section 15978. This state shall not be required to make payments to a
school district or charter school local level classroom site fund that are in
addition to monies transferred to the state level classroom site fund pursuant
to section 37521, subsection B and section 425029, subsection E,
paragraph 10.
N.Monies distributed from the classroom site fund
for class size reduction, AIMS intervention and dropout prevention programs
shall only be used for instructional purposes in the instruction function as
defined in the uniform system of financial records, except that monies shall
not be used for school sponsored
school-sponsored
athletics.
O.For the purposes of this section:
1."AIMS
intervention" means summer programs, after school programs, before school
programs or tutoring programs that are specifically designed to ensure that
pupils meet the Arizona academic standards as measured by the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test prescribed by section 15741.
2."Class size reduction" means any
maintenance and operations expenditure that is designed to reduce the ratio of
pupils to classroom teachers, including the use of persons who serve as aides
to classroom teachers. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 15-980, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-980.Uncollected property tax; property tax loss; supplemental
state aid
A.A school district is eligible for supplemental
state aid pursuant to this section if a county treasurer certifies to a the school district after January 1 that, in
the treasurer's reasonable belief, more than twenty per cent
percent of the primary property tax revenues that the school
district is entitled by law to receive pursuant to section 4218052 will
not be remitted to the district due to one of the following circumstances:
1.Property tax delinquencies.
2.A loss of property tax revenue resulting from a
decrease in assessed valuation due to a natural disaster such as fire or flood.
B.On receiving a certificate pursuant to subsection
A of this section, the school district may apply to the department of education
for supplemental state aid. The application shall include the county
treasurer's certified estimate of the total amount of uncollected primary
property taxes or the amount of lost property tax revenue for the school
district for the tax year payable in the current fiscal year.
C.Within fortyfive days after receiving a
complete and correct application, the state board of education shall approve the application and direct the
department of education to pay to the school district from amounts
appropriated for state aid the amount determined in subsection B of this
section. The department of education shall notify the county treasurer and the
county school superintendent of the amount and the date of the payment of the
supplemental state aid. Supplemental state aid paid under this section shall
be excluded from the calculation made pursuant to section 15973,
subsection C.
D.The superintendent of a school district that
receives supplemental state aid due to delinquent property taxes pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section shall report to the department of
education between May 5 and May 25 the actual amount of primary property taxes
that was not collected and remitted to the district during the current fiscal
year, based on information from the county treasurer.If the amount
of supplemental state aid paid pursuant to subsection C of this section exceeds
the actual amount of the uncollected primary property taxes that the district
is entitled to receive, the state board of education shall direct the department of education to deduct
the difference between the amount of supplemental state aid paid and the amount
of the uncollected primary property taxes from the June 15 and, if necessary,
subsequent apportionments of state aid pursuant to section 15973,
subsection B.
E.Beginning on June 1 after the payment of
supplemental state aid, the county school superintendent shall report quarterly
to the department of education the amount of any payments of delinquent primary
property taxes received by the district during the previous quarter with respect
to a tax year for which the supplemental state aid was paid and not previously
deducted from state aid pursuant to subsection D of this
section.The department shall deduct the amount reported from the
next apportionment of state aid to the district pursuant to section 15973,
subsection B until the supplemental state aid is repaid.If the
district does not receive any apportionment pursuant to section 15973,
subsection B, the department shall direct the school district superintendent to
pay that amount to the state treasurer for deposit in the state general fund.
F.A school district that receives supplemental
state aid due to loss of assessed valuation pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
2 of this section may receive supplemental state aid for up to three fiscal
years. The amount of supplemental state aid shall be reduced each year by
one-third and any increased property tax revenue due to higher assessed
valuation. END_STATUTE

