







REFERENCE TITLE: prisoners; mental health; transition
  program 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1439









Introduced by
Senators
  Barto, Driggs, Hobbs, Lesko, McGuire, Miranda: Allen S, Begay, Burges, Contreras,
  Donahue, Farnsworth D, Shooter, Smith, Worsley, Yee





AN ACT

amending section
411604.07, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41, chapter 11,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 411609.07;
relating to the state department of corrections.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1604.07, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1604.07.Earned release credits; forfeiture; restoration
A.Pursuant to rules adopted by the director, each
prisoner who is in the eligible earned release credit class shall be allowed an
earned release credit of one day for every six days served, including time
served in county jails, except for those prisoners who are sentenced to serve
the full term of imprisonment imposed by the court.
B.Release credits earned by a prisoner pursuant to
subsection A of this section shall not reduce the term of imprisonment imposed
by the court on the prisoner.
C.On reclassification of a prisoner resulting from
the prisoner's failure to adhere to the rules of the department or failure to
demonstrate a continual willingness to volunteer for or successfully participate
in a work, educational, treatment or training program, the director may declare
all release credits earned by the prisoner forfeited. In the discretion of the
director forfeited release credits may subsequently be restored.The
director shall maintain an account of release credits earned by each prisoner.
D.A prisoner who has reached the prisoner's earned
release date or sentence expiration date shall be released to begin the
prisoner's term of community supervision imposed by the court or term of
probation if the court waived community supervision pursuant to section 13603,
except that the director may deny or delay the prisoner's release to community
supervision or probation if the director believes the prisoner may be a
sexually violent person as defined in section 363701 until the screening
process is complete and the director determines that the prisoner will not be
referred to the county attorney pursuant to section 363702. If the term
of community supervision is waived, the state department of corrections shall
provide reasonable notice to the probation department of the scheduled release
of the prisoner from confinement by the department.If the court
waives community supervision, the director shall issue the prisoner an absolute
discharge on the prisoner's earned release credit date. A prisoner who is
released on the earned release credit date to serve a term of probation is not
under the control of the state department of corrections when community
supervision has been waived and the state department of corrections is not
required to provide parole services.
E.Notwithstanding subsection D of this section, a
prisoner who fails to achieve functional literacy at an eighth grade literacy
level shall not be released to begin the prisoner's term of community
supervision until either the prisoner achieves an eighth grade functional
literacy level as measured by standardized assessment testing or the prisoner
serves the full term of imprisonment imposed by the court, whichever first
occurs. This subsection does not apply to inmates who either:
1.Are unable to meet the functional literacy
standard required by section 31229.02, subsection A, due to a medical, developmental or
learning disability as described in section 31229, subsection C.
2.Are classified as level five offenders.
3.Are foreign nationals.
4.Have less than six months incarceration to serve
on commitment to the department.
F.The department shall establish conditions of
community supervision it deems appropriate in order to ensure that the best
interests of the prisoner and the citizens of this state are served. As a
condition of community supervision the director:
1.May
order a released prisoner to participate in an appropriate drug treatment or
education program that is administered by a qualified agency, organization or
individual approved by the department of health services and that provides
treatment or education to persons who abuse controlled substances. Each person
who is enrolled in a drug treatment or education program shall pay for the cost
of participation in the program to the extent of the person's financial
ability. 
2.May order
additional conditions,
may include including participation in a rehabilitation
program or counseling and performance of community restitution work. , except that 
3.May order
a released prisoner to participate in and complete a mental health transition
pilot program if the department determines that the released prisoner would
benefit from mental health care.
4.If
the prisoner was convicted of a violation of sexual conduct with a minor under
fifteen years of age or molestation of a child under fifteen years of age, the department shall impose as a condition of community supervision
a prohibition on residing within four hundred forty feet of a school or its
accompanying grounds. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "school" means any public, charter or private
school where children attend classes. 
g.If
a prisoner who reaches the prisoner's earned release credit date refuses to
sign and agree to abide by the conditions of supervision before release on
community supervision, the prisoner shall not be released.When the
prisoner reaches the sentence expiration date, the prisoner shall be released
to begin the term of community supervision.If the prisoner refuses
to sign and agree to abide by the conditions of release, the prisoner shall not
be released on the sentence expiration date and shall serve the term of
community supervision in prison. The department is required to supervise any
prisoner on community supervision until the period of community supervision
expires. The department may bring a prisoner who is in violation of the
prisoner's terms and conditions before the board of executive clemency. For the purposes of this subsection,
"school" means any public, charter or private school where children
attend classes.
G.H.The
director pursuant to rules adopted by the department shall authorize the
release of any prisoner on the prisoner's earned release credit date to serve
any consecutive term imposed on the prisoner. The release shall be for the
sentence completed only. The prisoner shall remain under the custody and
control of the department. The director may authorize the rescission of the
release to any consecutive term if the prisoner fails to adhere to the rules of
the department.
H.I.If a prisoner
absconds from community supervision, any time spent before the prisoner is
returned to custody is excluded in calculating the remaining period of
community supervision.
I.J.A prisoner shall
forfeit five days of the prisoner's earned release credits:
1.If the court finds or a disciplinary hearing held
after a review by and recommendations from the attorney general's office
determines that the prisoner does any of the following:
(a)Brings a claim without substantial
justification.
(b)Unreasonably expands or delays a proceeding.
(c)Testifies falsely or otherwise presents false
information or material to the court.
(d)Submits a claim that is intended solely to
harass the party it is filed against.
2.For each time the prisoner tests positive for any
prohibited drugs during the period of time the prisoner is incarcerated.
J.K.If the prisoner
does not have five days of earned release credits, the prisoner shall forfeit
the prisoner's existing earned release credits and shall be ineligible from
accruing earned release credits until the number of earned release credits the
prisoner would have otherwise accrued equals the difference between five days and
the number of existing earned release credit days the prisoner forfeits
pursuant to this section.
K.L.The director may
authorize temporary release on inmate status of eligible inmates pursuant to
rules adopted by the director within ninety days of any other authorized
release date. The release authorization applies to any inmate who has been
convicted of a drug offense, who has been determined to be eligible for
participation in the transition program pursuant to section 31281 and
who has agreed to participate in the transition program.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 41,
chapter 11, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
41-1609.07, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1609.07.Mental health transition pilot
program; program termination
A.The director shall establish a mental health
transition pilot program for offenders who are released on community
supervision and who the department determines would benefit from mental health
care. The mental health transition pilot program must include:
1.Nonprofit
or private entities with whom the department contracts and that have
transitional navigators who provide guidance and resources to released prisoners
with mental health issues, including assistance with enrollment in community
benefit programs and other resources, job placement and, if appropriate,
further prisoners' education.
2.Psychoeducational counseling and case
management. The array of counseling services must include, if applicable,
substance abuse treatment, anger management, cognitive skills training,
parenting skills and family reunification training.
B.The director shall identify prisoners who are
eligible for the mental health pilot program. In making this determination,
the director shall identify those prisoners who are most likely to benefit from
the pilot program's goals of reducing recidivism and enhancing public safety.
C.The director shall order prisoners to
participate in the mental health treatment pilot program as follows:
1.In fiscal year 2016-2017, at least six hundred
eligible prisoners.
2.In fiscal year 2017-2018, at least eight
hundred eligible prisoners.
3.In fiscal year 2018-2019 and thereafter, at
least one thousand eligible prisoners.
D.The program established by this section ends
on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 41-3102.END_STATUTE

