







REFERENCE TITLE: securities; salesmen; registration
  exemptions







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1425









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D, Dalessandro, Farley, Sherwood, Worsley; Representatives Allen
  J, Weninger: Brophy McGee





AN ACT

amending section
44-1844, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to securities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1844, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1844.Exempt transactions
A.Except as provided in subsections B and C of this
section, sections 441841 and 441842, section 441843.02,
subsections B and C and sections 443321 and 443325 do not apply
to any of the following classes of transactions:
1.Transactions by an issuer not involving any
public offering.
2.The sale of securities by an executor,
administrator, guardian or conservator or by a bank the business of which is
supervised and regulated by an agency of this state or of the United States, as
trustee under a will or trust agreement, or by a receiver or trustee in
insolvency or bankruptcy approved by a court of competent jurisdiction of this
state or the United States.
3.The sale in good faith and not for the purpose of
avoiding the provisions of this chapter by a pledgee of securities pledged for
a bona fide debt.
4.The sale in good faith and not for the purpose of
avoiding the provisions of this chapter of securities by the bona fide owner of
such securities, other than an issuer or underwriter, in an isolated
transaction, in which the securities are sold either directly or through a
dealer as agent for the owner but where the sales are not made in the course of
repeated or successive transactions of similar character by the owner and are
not made directly or indirectly for the benefit of the issuer or an underwriter
of the securities.
5.The distribution by a corporation of capital stock
or other securities to its stockholders or other security holders as a stock
dividend or other distribution out of retained earnings.
6.Any transaction or series of transactions
incident to a statutory or judicially approved reorganization, merger,
triangular merger, consolidation, or sale of assets, incident to a vote by
securities holders pursuant to the articles of incorporation, the applicable
corporate statute or other controlling statute, a partnership agreement or the
controlling agreement among securities holders.
7.The exchange of securities by an issuer with its
existing security holders exclusively, where no commission or remuneration is
paid or given, directly or indirectly, for soliciting the exchange, if such
exchange has been duly authorized and has been approved by the holders of not
less than a majority of the outstanding securities of each class affected by
the exchange.
8.An offer or sale of securities to a bank, a
savings institution, a trust company, an insurance company, an investment
company as defined in the investment company act of 1940, a pension or profit
sharing trust or other financial institution or institutional buyer or a dealer
whether the purchaser is acting for itself or in a fiduciary capacity.
9.The issuance and delivery of securities in
exchange for other securities of the same issuer pursuant to a right of
conversion entitling the holder of the securities surrendered in exchange to
make such conversion.
10.The issuance and delivery of securities of a
corporation to the original incorporators, not exceeding ten in number, where
the securities are not acquired by the incorporators for the purpose of sale to
others and are not directly or indirectly sold to a third party within
twenty-four months unless an incorporator experiences a bona fide change of
financial circumstances within such time period, providing original
incorporators are notified of their right pursuant to title 10 to review the
financial books and records of the corporation at reasonable times.
11.A nonissuer transaction in an outstanding
security, including the sale by a dealer, including an underwriter no longer
acting as an underwriter in respect to the securities involved, of securities
sold and distributed to the public, but not including securities constituting
an unsold allotment to or subscription by the dealer as a participant in the
distribution of the securities by the issuer or by or through an underwriter,
if the class of security has been outstanding in the hands of the public for
not less than ninety days preceding the date of the transaction and a
recognized manual of securities designated by the commission by rule or order
at the time of sale contains the names of the issuer's officers and directors,
a statement of financial condition of the issuer as of a date within eighteen
months of the date of the sale and a statement of income or operations for each
of the two fiscal years next before the date of the statement of financial
condition or for the period from the commencement of the issuer's existence to
the date of the statement of financial condition if the period is less than two
years.
12.The sale by a dealer, including an underwriter
no longer acting as an underwriter in respect to the securities involved, of
securities of an issue sold and distributed to the public, but not including
securities constituting an unsold allotment to or subscription by the dealer as
a participant in the distribution of the securities by the issuer or by or
through an underwriter, if securities of such issue have been registered by
description under sections 441871 through 441875 or registered by
qualification under sections 441891 through 441902.
13.The sale of commodity investment contracts
traded on a commodities exchange recognized by the commission at the time of
sale.
14.The sale or issuance of any investment contract
or other security in connection with an employee's pension, profit sharing,
stock purchase, stock bonus, savings, thrift, stock option or other similar
employee benefit plan that meets the requirements for qualification under the
United States internal revenue code.
15.Transactions within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the commodity futures trading commission as granted under the commodity
exchange act.
16.Transactions involving the purchase of one or
more precious metals that require,
and under which the purchaser receives, within seven calendar days after the
payment in good funds of any portion of the purchase price, physical delivery
of the quantity of the precious metals purchased by such payment. For the
purposes of this paragraph, physical delivery is deemed to have occurred if,
within such seven day period, the quantity of precious metals purchased by such
payment is delivered, whether in specifically segregated or fungible bulk form,
into the possession of a depository other than the seller which is a financial
institution, a depository the warehouse receipts of which are recognized for
delivery purposes for any commodity on a contract market designated by the
commodity futures trading commission or a storage facility licensed or
regulated by the United States or any agency of the United States and such
depository or other person that qualifies as a depository issues and the
purchaser receives a certificate, document of title, confirmation or other
instrument evidencing that such quantity of precious metals has been delivered
to the depository and is being and will continue to be held by the depository
on the purchaser's behalf, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, other
than liens of the purchaser, tax liens, liens agreed to by the purchaser, or
liens of the depository for fees and expenses, that have previously been
disclosed to the purchaser. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"financial institution" means a bank, savings institution or trust
company organized under, or supervised pursuant to, the laws of the United
States or of this state.
17.Transactions involving a commodity investment
contract solely between persons engaged in producing, processing, using
commercially or handling as merchants each commodity subject to the contract or
any byproduct.
18.A nonissuer transaction in an outstanding
security, including the sale by a dealer, including an underwriter no longer
acting as an underwriter in respect to the securities involved, of securities
sold and distributed to the public, but not including securities constituting
an unsold allotment to or subscription by the dealer as a participant in the
distribution of the securities by the issuer or by or through an underwriter if
both of the following apply:
(a)The class of security has been outstanding in
the hands of the public for not less than ninety days preceding the date of the
transaction.
(b)The securities are listed on an automated quotation
system of a national securities association registered under the securities
exchange act of 1934.
19.Transactions involving the sale of securities to
persons who are not residents of this state and are not present in this state
if all of the following conditions are met:
(a)The securities being offered are not blind pool
offerings.
(b)At least ten days
before the offering date:
(i)The issuer
certifies that the securities being offered will be offered and sold in
compliance with the securities act of 1933 and the laws and regulations of
those states in which the offers and sales will be made.
(ii)The issuer files as a notice filing one copy of
any offering materials that may be required by the SEC or the laws and rules of
those states in which the offers and sales will be made.
(iii)The issuer submits a filing fee of two hundred
dollars.
(c)Within ten working days of completion of the
offering the issuer files a description of the actions taken as to compliance
with the securities act of 1933 and the laws and rules of those states in which
the offers and sales were made.
(d)The transaction complies with any rule adopted
by the commission further restricting the exemption created by this paragraph
to prevent any fraudulent practices.
20.Transactions involving offers or sales of one or
more promissory notes directly secured by a first lien on a single parcel of
real estate on which is located a dwelling or other residential or commercial
structure and participation interest in those notes that are exempt under
section 4(5) of the securities act of 1933.
21.Offerings
of securities of not more than one million dollars or the limit established
under 17 Code of Federal Regulations section 230.504(b)(2) as follows: 
(a)An
unlimited number of sophisticated or suitable purchasers may be involved.
(b)Written
offering documents providing full and adequate disclosure of material facts
must be provided to each purchaser.
(c)Advertising
is not allowed without a waiver from the director.
(d)The sum
of the following amounts may not exceed the greater of one million dollars or
the limit established under 17 Code of Federal Regulations section 230.504(b)(2):
(i)The dollar value for the amount
of securities being registered.
(ii)The aggregate offering price of
all securities of the issuer sold within the twelve months before the effective
date of the certificate of registration.
(iii)The aggregate offering price of
all securities of the issuer sold during the course of the offering being registered
if the securities were sold in reliance on 15 United States Code section 77c(b) or in violation of 15 United States Code section 77e(a).
(e)Provisions
on offerings to sophisticated purchasers are as follows:
(i)The registration of an offering
to sophisticated purchasers under this section allows sales to either an
accredited investor as defined in 17 Code of Federal Regulations section
230.501 or a person, acting alone or with a purchaser representative, who the
issuer reasonably believes has the knowledge and experience in financial and
business matters to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the
proposed investment. The issuer must reasonably believe that the person has
knowledge and experience before a person becomes a purchaser.
(ii)Sales under this section may be
made by the issuer, a person registered in this state to sell for the issuer, a
dealer or a person exempted from registration by this chapter.
(f)The
registration of an offering to suitable purchasers under this section allows
all of the following:
(i)Sales to be made only by a
dealer who is registered in this state and who is also registered as a dealer
with the SEC under 15 United States Code section 78o(b).
(ii)Registration if the dealer who
will conduct the sales reasonably believes that adequate diligence and review
have been applied in connection with the offering being registered in order for
the dealer to adequately determine the suitability of the offering to a
purchaser. 
(iii)Sales if the dealer reasonably
believes that the security is suitable for the purchaser after reasonable
inquiry concerning the purchaser's investment objectives, financial situation
and needs and after consideration of any other information known by the dealer.
B.Subsection A, paragraph 11 of this section does
not apply to either of the following:
1.Sales by a dealer or salesman who is not
registered in this state.
2.Solicited sales to or purchases from a resident
of this state by a dealer who does not have, before the initial solicitation, a
written new account form signed by the resident or a customer agreement signed
by the resident and a previous sale or purchase of a security with the
resident.
C.The commission may by order revoke or suspend the
exemption under subsection A, paragraph 11 or 18 of this section with respect
to any securities or the use of the exemption under subsection A, paragraph 11
of this section by any dealer if it finds that the further sale in this state
of the securities or by the dealer would work, or tend to work, a fraud or
deceit on the purchaser.
D.Sections 44-1841 and 44-1842, section 44-1843.02,
subsections B and C and sections 44-3321 and 44-3325 do not apply to the offer
or sale of a security by the issuer of the security if all of the following
apply:
1.The issuer of the security is:
(a)A business entity organized under the laws of
this state.
(b)Authorized to do business in this state.
(c)Doing business in this state pursuant to the
securities act of 1933, 17 Code of Federal Regulations section 230.147(c).
2.The transaction meets the requirement of the
federal exemption for intrastate offerings in the securities act of 1933 (15
United States Code section 77c(a)(11)) and 17 Code of Federal Regulations
section 230.147.
3.The aggregate offering price of the securities
complies with the following:
(a)If the issuer has not undergone and made
available to each prospective purchaser and the commission the opinion letter
and applicable documentation resulting from a financial audit of its most
recently completed fiscal year that complies with generally accepted accounting
principles, the sum of all cash and other consideration to be received for all
sales of securities in reliance on this exemption may not exceed one million
dollars in a twelvemonth period.
(b)If the issuer has undergone and made available
to each prospective purchaser and the commission the opinion letter and
applicable documentation resulting from a financial audit of its most recently
completed fiscal year that complies with generally accepted accounting
principles, the sum of all cash and other consideration to be received for all
sales of securities in reliance on this exemption may not exceed two million
five hundred thousand dollars in a twelvemonth period.
(c)An offer or sale to an officer, director,
partner, trustee or individual occupying similar status or performing similar
functions with respect to the issuer or to a person owning ten percent or more
of the outstanding shares of any class or classes of securities of the issuer may does not count toward the monetary limitations
prescribed in this paragraph.
4.All sales that are part of the same offering,
made in reliance on this exemption, meet all of the terms and conditions of
this exemption. Offers and sales that are made more than six months before the
start of an offering or are made more than six months after completion of an
offering may not be considered part of the offering if during those sixmonth
periods there are no offers or sales of securities by or for the issuer that
are of the same or a similar class as those offered or sold under this
exemption, other than offers and sales to individuals identified in the
disclosure document.
5.The issuer does not accept more than ten thousand
dollars from any single purchaser unless the purchaser is an accredited
investor as defined by the securities act of 1933, 17 Code of Federal
Regulations section 230.501.
6.Unless waived by written consent of the director,
not less than ten days before the commencement of an offering of securities,
pursuant to this exemption, the issuer submits all of the following to the
commission:
(a)A notice filing on a form prescribed by the
commission.
(b)A copy of the disclosure document to be provided
to prospective purchasers pursuant to paragraph 16 of this subsection.
(c)A copy of the escrow agreement entered into
pursuant to paragraph 7 of this subsection.
(d)Any other documents or information the
commission may require to administer and enforce this exemption.
7.All cash and other consideration paid for
securities sold pursuant to an offering pursuant to this exemption are directed
to and deposited into a single escrow account maintained by a bank, credit
union or other depository financial institution in this state that is
authorized to do business in this state and that maintains deposit or share
insurance on its deposits or shares.The escrow agent for the escrow
account shall maintain the records necessary to obtain pass-through insurance
for the escrowed funds.The commission may request information from
the financial institution necessary to ensure compliance with this
paragraph.Any information received by the commission is
confidential and not subject to disclosure, unless the director authorizes the disclosure
of the information as not contrary to the public interest. The bank, regulated
trust company or corporate fiduciary, savings bank, savings and loan
association or credit union in which the investor monies are deposited is only
responsible to act at the direction of the party establishing the escrow
agreement and does not have any duty or liability, contractual or otherwise, to
any investor or other person.
8.Offers made pursuant to this exemption state a
target offering amount and an offering deadline.The offering
deadline may not be less than twenty-one days and not more than one year from
the date the offer is made.
9.The sum of all cash and other consideration
received and held in escrow, as required by paragraph 7 of this subsection, may
not be less than eighty percent of the target offering amount on expiration of
the offering deadline or the early closing of the offering, pursuant to
paragraph 11 of this subsection, and if this requirement is not met the
transaction is void and the escrow agent shall return all funds deposited into
the escrow account to the purchasers.
10.A purchaser is permitted to cancel the
purchaser's commitment to invest at any time before forty-eight hours before
expiration of the offering deadline if notice of cancellation is delivered
electronically or physically in writing to the individual or addresses
identified in the disclosure document.If a purchaser is given
notice of an early closing, pursuant to paragraph 11 of this subsection, the
purchaser may cancel the commitment within seventy-two hours of delivery of the
notice.
11.If an issuer closes an offering before the
offering deadline, the issuer delivers notice of the closing to each purchaser
pursuant to the notice provisions set forth in the disclosure document
prescribed by paragraph 16 of this subsection and posts the notice
conspicuously on each internet website on which the offer was posted, at least
five days before the early closing.
12.Before or as a result of the offering, the
issuer is not any of the following:
(a)An investment company, as defined by the
investment company act of 1940 (15 United States Code section 80a3(c) 80a-3(a)).
(b)An entity that would be an investment company
but for the exclusions provided in the investment company act of 1940 (15
United States Code section 80a3(c).
(c)Subject to the reporting requirements of the
securities exchange act of 1934 (15 United States Code section 78o(d)).
(d)A company that has not yet defined its business
operations, that does not have a business plan or a stated investment goal for
the funds being raised or that plans to engage in a merger or acquisition with
an unspecified business entity.
13.The issuer informs all prospective purchasers of
securities that the securities have not been registered under federal or state
securities laws and that the securities are subject to limitations on
resale.The issuer shall display the following notice on the cover
page of the disclosure document in a conspicuous manner in at least twelvepoint
boldface type:
In making an investment decision, investors shall rely on
their own examination of the issuer and the terms of the offering, including
the merits and risks involved. These securities have not been recommended by
any federal or state securities commission or division or regulatory
authority.Furthermore, the foregoing authorities have not confirmed
the accuracy or determined the adequacy of this document.Any
representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.These
securities are subject to restrictions on transferability and resale and may
not be transferred or resold, except as permitted by 17 Code of Federal
Regulations section 230.147(e) and the applicable state securities laws,
pursuant to registration or exemption therefrom.Investors shall be
aware that they will be required to bear the financial risks of this investment
for an indefinite period of time.
14.The issuer requires each purchaser to certify in
writing or electronically as follows:
I understand and acknowledge that I am investing in a
high-risk, speculative business venture.I may lose all of my
investment, or under some circumstances more than my investment, and I can
afford this loss.This offering has not been reviewed or approved by
any state or federal securities commission or division or other regulatory
authority and no such person or authority has confirmed the accuracy or
determined the adequacy of any disclosure made to me relating to this
offering.The securities I am acquiring in this offering are illiquid,
there is no ready market for the sale of such securities, it may be difficult
or impossible for me to sell or otherwise dispose of this investment, and, accordingly, I may be required to hold this
investment indefinitely.I may be subject to tax on my share of the
taxable income and losses of the company, whether or not I have sold or
otherwise disposed of my investment or received any dividends or other
distributions from the company.
15.The issuer obtains from each prospective
purchaser evidence that the prospective purchaser is a resident of this state
and, if applicable, is an accredited investor.A prospective
purchaser's residence shall be determined in accordance with the securities act
of 1933, 17 Code of Federal Regulations section 230.147(d).An
affirmative representation made by an individual that the individual is a
resident of this state and proof of at least one of the following is sufficient
evidence that the individual is a resident of this state:
(a)A valid driver license or nonoperating
identification license issued pursuant to title 28.
(b)A current voter registration for this state.
(c)General property tax records showing that the
individual owns and occupies property in this state as the individual's
principal residence.
16.The issuer shall provide a disclosure document
to each prospective purchaser at the time the offer of securities is made that
contains all of the following:
(a)A description of the company, its type of
entity, the address and telephone number of its principal office, its history,
its business plan and the intended use of the offering proceeds, including any
amounts to be paid as compensation or otherwise to any owner, executive
officer, director, managing member or other person occupying a similar status
with the company or performing similar functions on behalf of the issuer.
(b)The identity of all persons owning more than ten
percent of the ownership interests of any class of securities of the company.
(c)The identity of the executive officers,
directors, managing members and other persons occupying a similar status or
performing similar functions in the name of and on behalf of the issuer,
including their titles and prior experience.
(d)The terms and conditions of the securities being
offered and of any outstanding securities of the company.
(e)The offering deadline and the target offering
amount.
(f)Any conditions on which the issuer may exercise
its right to close an offering before the offering deadline, including the
notice that will be provided to both purchasers and potential purchasers if the
offering is closed before the offering deadline and the method in which the
notice will be delivered.
(g)Either the percentage ownership of the company
represented by the offered securities or the valuation of the company implied
by the price of the offered securities.
(h)The price per share, unit or interest of the
securities being offered.
(i)Any restrictions on transfer of the securities
being offered.
(j)A disclosure of any anticipated future issuance
of securities that might dilute the value of securities being offered.
(k)The identity of any person who has been or will
be retained by the issuer to assist the issuer in conducting the offering and
sale of the securities, including any internet website operator. This
subdivision does not apply to persons acting solely as accountants, attorneys
or employees whose primary job responsibilities involve operating the business
of the issuer except that the identity of any person assisting the issuer in
raising capital must be disclosed.
(l)A description of the consideration being paid to
any person identified in subdivision (k) of this paragraph, for such assistance
to the issuer.
(m)A description of any litigation, legal
proceedings or pending regulatory action involving the company or its
management.
(n)The names and addresses, including the uniform
resource locator, of each internet website that the issuer will use to offer or
sell securities pursuant to this exemption.
(o)The name of the individual and addresses to
which purchasers may deliver cancellations pursuant to paragraph 10 of this
subsection. Issuers shall provide the name of at least one individual with
both an electronic and a physical address to which cancellations may be
delivered.
(p)Current financial statements certified by the
principal executive officer shall be true and complete in all material
respects. If applicable, the documentation required by paragraph 3,
subdivision (b) of this subsection shall also be provided.
(q)Any additional information material to the
offering including, if appropriate, a written statement of significant factors
that make the offering speculative or risky. This statement shall be concise
and organized logically and shall not be limited to risks that could apply to
any issuer or any offering.
17.The exemption is not used if an issuer or person
affiliated with the issuer or offering is subject to disqualification pursuant
to:
(a)This chapter.
(b)A rule or order of the commission.
(c)The securities act of 1933 (15 United States
Code section 77c(a)(11)).
(d)The securities act of 1933, 17 Code of Federal
Regulations section 230.262.
18.The commission may set aside disqualification
if:
(a)On a showing of good cause and without prejudice
to any other action by the commission, the commission determines that it is not
necessary that an exemption be denied under the circumstances.
(b)The issuer establishes that it made a factual
inquiry into whether any disqualification existed under this subsection but did
not know and could not have known in the exercise of reasonable care that a
disqualification existed.The nature and scope of the requisite
inquiry will vary based on the circumstances of the subject issuer and the
other offering participants.
19.The sale is made exclusively through one or more
internet websites that are operated by a dealer who is registered pursuant to
article 9 of this chapter or by a person who does not receive a commission or
remuneration, directly or indirectly, for the offer or sale of the security and
who makes a notice filing pursuant to paragraph 6 of this
subsection.Each issuer and website operator shall comply with the
following:
(a)Before any offer or sale of securities, the
issuer shall provide to the website operator evidence that the issuer is
organized under the laws of this state and is authorized to do business in this
state.
(b)The website operator shall limit website access
to the offer or sale of securities only to residents of this state.
(c)The website operator may not be a purchaser in
any offering made pursuant to this exemption.
(d)The website operator may not hold an interest in
or be affiliated with or under common control with any issuer making an offer
or sale pursuant to this exemption.
(e)Before and throughout the term of any offering,
the website operator shall give the commission access to the internet website
on which any offering is made pursuant to this exemption.
(f)The issuer may distribute a limited notice
stating that the issuer is conducting an offering pursuant to this exemption,
the name of the website operator through which the offer is being conducted and
a link directing potential purchasers to the internet website of the website
operator.The notice shall contain a disclaimer that states that the
offering is limited to residents of this state.
20.The issuer makes and keeps all accounts,
correspondence, memoranda, papers, books and other records that the commission
prescribes by rule or order.All required records shall be:
(a)Preserved for three years unless the commission
prescribes otherwise for particular types of record
records, by administrative rule or order. 
(b)Maintained within this state, or at the request
of the commission be made available at any time for examination by the
commission in the issuer's principal office or by production of exact copies in
this state.
21.The issuer provides, free of charge, a quarterly
report to the issuer's purchasers until no securities issued under this
exemption are outstanding.The issuer may satisfy this reporting
requirement by making the information available on an internet website if the
information is made available within forty-five days after the end of each
fiscal quarter and remains available until the succeeding quarterly report is
issued.The issuer shall also provide a written copy of the report
to any purchaser on request.The report shall contain all of the
following:
(a)Any compensation
received by each director or executive officer, including cash compensation
earned since the previous report and on an annual basis, any bonuses, stock
options or other rights to receive securities of the issuer or any affiliate of
the issuer and payments that reduce personal living expenses such as a company vehicle, free
housing, meals or club dues. 
(b)An analysis by the issuer's management of the
business operations and financial condition of the issuer.
E.The
director shall adopt rules based on 17 Code of Federal Regulations section
230.504(b)(2) and revise
the rules as necessary to keep them current with the federal law. END_STATUTE

