







REFERENCE TITLE: employment and labor omnibus







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1436









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Quezada, Sherwood: Bradley, Contreras,
  Farley, McGuire





AN ACT

Amending title
23, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 23-205;
amending title 23, chapter 2, article 6.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 23-342; repealing section 23-362, arizona revised statutes, as added by
laws 1997, chapter 51, section 1; amending section 23363, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding articles 8.1 and 8.2; amending title 41, chapter 23, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-2535.01; relating to labor.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 2, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 23-205, to read:
START_STATUTE23-205.Wage disclosure; protection; prohibitions; civil action
A.An
employer may not:
1.Require
nondisclosure by an employee regarding the employee's wage information as a
condition of employment.
2.Require
an employee to sign a waiver or other document that denies the employee the
right to disclose the employee's wage information.
3.Take any
adverse employment action against an employee for disclosing the employee's
wages or discussing another employee's wages if the discussion was voluntary.
4.retaliate
against an employee for asserting the employee's rights and remedies under this
section.
B.This
section does not:
1.Create an
obligation for an employer or employee to disclose wage information.
2.Allow an
employee, without the written consent of the employer, to disclose proprietary
information, trade secret information or other information that is otherwise
subject to legal privilege or protected by law.
3.Diminish
any existing rights under the national labor relations act (49 Stat. 449, 29
United States code sections 151 through 169).
4.Allow an
employee to disclose wage information of other employees to a competitor of the
employer.
C.An
employer that provides an employee handbook to its employees shall include in
the employee handbook notice of the employee's rights and remedies under this
section.
d.If an
employer violates subsection a of this section, the employee may file a civil
action against the employer. The court may order reinstatement, recovery of
unpaid wages, restoration of lost service credits, if appropriate, and
expungement of any related adverse records relating to the employee who was the
subject of the violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 23, chapter 2, article 6.1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 23-342, to read:
START_STATUTE23-342.Equal pay certification; application; criteria; denial;
suspension and revocation; audit; confidentiality; report; definitions
A.The commission shall issue an equal pay
certificate to a business that has at least forty fulltime employees in
this state or the state where the business's primary place of business is
located and that submits to the commission an application, a statement signed
by the chairperson of the board of directors or chief executive officer of the
business and supporting documentation that states:
1.That the business complies with title VII of
the civil rights act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352; 78 Stat. 241; 42 United States code
2000e through 2000e-17), the equal pay act of 1963 (P.L. 88-38; 77 Stat. 56; 29
United States code 206) and this article. 
2.That the average compensation for female
employees is not consistently below the average compensation for male employees
within each job category for which an employee is expected to perform work
under a contract, taking into consideration length of service, requirements of
specific jobs, experience, skill, effort, responsibility, working conditions on
the job or other mitigating factors.
3.That the business does not restrict employees
of one sex to certain job classifications and makes retention and promotion
decisions without regard to sex.
4.That wage and benefit disparities are
corrected if identified to ensure compliance with the laws pursuant to
paragraph 1 of this subsection.
5.How often wages and benefits are evaluated to
ensure compliance with the laws pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection.
6.If the business sets compensation and benefits
based on a market pricing approach, the state prevailing wage or labor
organization requirements, a performance pay system, an internal analysis or an
alternative approach. If the business uses an alternative approach, the
business shall provide a description of the alternative approach used to set
compensation and benefits.
B.The commission may establish an application
and application fee by rule for the issuance of equal pay certificates and for
equal pay certificate renewal.
C.An equal pay certificate issued pursuant to
this section is valid for a period of four years.
D.The commission shall review each business's
application, statement and supporting documentation submitted within fifteen
days after receipt. If the commission determines that the business is not in
compliance with subsection A of this section, the commission may deny the
business the equal pay certificate.
E.The commission may suspend or revoke an equal
pay certificate if the business fails to make a good-faith effort to comply
with or has multiple violations of title VII of the civil rights act of 1964
(P.L. 88-352; 78 Stat. 241; 42 United States code sections 2000e through 2000e-17), the equal pay act of 1963 (P.L. 88-38; 77 Stat. 56; 29
United State code 206) and this article.The commission shall
provide notice to the business before suspending or revoking the business's
equal pay certificate and allow the business an opportunity to comply with
title VII of the civil rights act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352; 78 Stat. 241; 42 United
States code sections 2000e
through 2000e-17), the
equal pay act of 1963 (P.L. 88-38; 77 Stat. 56; 29 United States code 206) and
this article. 
F.The commission may audit a business to verify
compliance with this section. On request, the business shall provide the
following information to the commission with respect to the employees expected
to perform work under the contract in each job category:
1.The number of male employees.
2.The number of female employees.
3.The average annualized salaries paid to male
employees and to female employees, in a manner consistent with the business's
compensation system, within each job category.
4.Information on performance payments, benefits
or other elements of compensation, in a manner consistent with the business's
compensation system.
5.The average length of service for male and
female employees in each job category.
6.Other information identified by the business
or the commission necessary to determine compliance with the criteria provided
in subsection A of this section.
G.All information related to a business's
employees that is submitted to the commission related to an equal pay
certificate is confidential and is not subject to inspection by the public.
The commission's decision to issue, deny, revoke or suspend an equal pay
certificate is not confidential.
H.The commission shall submit a report to the
governor, the chairperson and ranking minority member of the senate committee
on government, or its successor committee, and the chairperson and ranking
minority member of the house of representatives committee on government and
higher education, or its successor committee, on or before January 31 of every
odd-numbered year, beginning January 31, 2019.The report shall
include the number of equal pay certificates issued, the number of audits
conducted and information regarding the processes used by businesses to ensure
compliance with subsection A of this section.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1."Business" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 41-2503.
2."Contract" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 41-2503.
3."Job category" means the major job
categories provided in the most recent employer information report issued by
the United States equal employment opportunity commission, or its successor
agency. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Subject to the requirements of
article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws
1997, chapter 51, section 1, is repealed.
Sec.4.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 23-363, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-363.Minimum wage
A.Employers shall pay employees no less than the
minimum wage, which shall be six dollars and seventy-five cents ($6.75) an hour
beginning on January 1, 2007.
B.The minimum wage shall be increased on January 1,
2008 and on January 1 of successive years by the increase in the cost of
living. The increase in the cost of living shall be measured by the percentage
increase as of August of the immediately preceding year over the level as of
August of the previous year of the consumer price index (all urban consumers, U.S. United States city average for all items) or
its successor index as published by the U.S. United States department of
labor or its successor agency, with the amount of the minimum wage increase
rounded to the nearest multiple of five cents.
C.For any
employee who customarily and regularly receives tips or gratuities from patrons
or others, the employer may pay a wage up to $3.00 per hour less than the
minimum wage if the employer can establish by its records of charged tips or by
the employee's declaration for federal insurance contributions act (FICA)
purposes that for each week, when adding tips received to wages paid, the
employee received not less than the minimum wage for all hours worked.
Compliance with this provision will be determined by averaging tips received by
the employee over the course of the employer's payroll period or any other
period selected by the employer that complies with regulations adopted by the
commission.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding articles 8.1 and 8.2, to read:
ARTICLE 8.1.EARNED SICK TIME LEAVE
START_STATUTE23-371.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Abuse"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133623.
2."Commission"
means the industrial commission of Arizona.
3."Domestic
violence" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133601.
4."Earned
sick time" means time that is provided by an employer to an employee for
the purposes described in section 23-373.
5."Employee"
means any person who is employed by an employer for more than eighty hours in a
calendar year. Employee does not include an individual who is employed by this
state, a political subdivision of this state or the united states or who is covered by a valid collective
bargaining agreement that expressly waives earned sick leave requirements in
clear and unambiguous terms. 
6."Employer"
includes any corporation, proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, association, individual or other entity acting
directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an
employee, but does not include this state, a political subdivision of this
state or the United States.
7."Family
member" means:
(a)A biological, adopted or foster
child, a stepchild or legal ward, a child of a domestic partner or a child for
whom the employee serves as a temporary guardian.
(b)A biological, foster or adoptive
parent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner, a stepparent of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner or an individual who was a temporary guardian of the employee when the
employee was a minor.
(c)The spouse or domestic partner
of the employee.
(d)A grandparent or a spouse or
domestic partner of a grandparent.
(e)A biological, foster or adopted
sibling or a spouse or domestic partner of a biological, foster or adopted
sibling.
(f)A grandchild.
(g)Any other individual who is
related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the
equivalent of a family relationship.
8."Health
professional" has the same meaning prescribed in section 323201.
9."Retaliation"
means any threat, discharge, suspension, demotion, reduction of hours by an
employer of an employee or other adverse action that an employer takes against
an employee and includes any sanctions against a recipient of public benefits
or interference with or punishment for participating in an investigation,
proceeding or hearing under this article.
10."Sexual
assault" means a violation of section 13-1406.
11."Stalking"
means a violation of section 13-2923. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-372.Accrual of earned sick time
A.An
employee of an employer with fewer than ten employees accrues a minimum of one
hour of earned sick time for every thirty hours worked. An employee may not
accrue more than forty hours of earned sick time in a calendar year, unless the
employer selects a higher limit.
B.An
employee of an employer with at least ten employees accrues a minimum of one
hour of earned sick time for every thirty hours worked. An employee may not
accrue more than fiftysix hours of earned sick time in a calendar year,
unless the employer selects a higher limit.
C.For the
purposes of subsections A and B of this section, an employer is considered to
have at least ten employees if the employer maintains at least ten full-time,
part-time or temporary employees who perform work for compensation for some
portion of a day in twenty different calendar weeks, whether or not the weeks
are consecutive, in either the current or preceding calendar year.
D.An
employee who is exempt from overtime requirements under 29 United States Code
section 213(a)(1) is
assumed to work forty hours in each workweek for the purposes of earned sick
time accrual, unless the employee's normal workweek is fewer than forty hours.
If the employee's workweek is fewer than forty hours, earned sick time accrues
based on the number of hours actually worked.
E.Earned
sick time begins to accrue at the commencement of employment or on January 1,
2017, whichever is later.
F.An
employee may use accrued earned sick time beginning on the ninetieth calendar
day after commencement of employment or January 1, 2017, whichever is later.
After the ninetieth calendar day of employment, an employee may use earned sick
time as it is accrued.
G.Earned
sick time is carried over to the following calendar year, except that an
employee may not use more than the maximum time provided by subsections A and B
of this section of earned sick time in a calendar year.
H.If an
employer provides a paid leave that meets the accrual requirements of this
section and that may be used for the same purposes and under the same
conditions as prescribed in this section, the employer is not required to
provide additional earned sick time.
I.This
section does not require financial or other reimbursement to an employee from
an employer for accrued earned sick time on the employee's termination,
resignation, retirement or other separation from employment.
J.If an
employee is transferred to a separate division, entity or location but remains
employed by the same employer, the employee is entitled to use all unused earned
sick time accrued while working at the prior division, entity or location. If
there is a separation from employment and the employee is rehired within twelve
months of separation by the same employer, previously accrued earned sick time
that had not been used must be reinstated. The employee may use accrued earned
sick time and accrue additional earned sick time at the commencement of the
reemployment.
K.If a
different employer succeeds or replaces an existing employer, all employees of
the original employer who remain employed by the successor employer are
entitled to use all unused earned sick time accrued while employed by the
original employer.
L.This
article does not:
1.Discourage
or prohibit an employer from the adoption or retention of a paid leave policy
that is more generous than the earned sick time leave requirements of this
article.
2.Diminish
the obligation of an employer to comply with any contract, collective
bargaining agreement, employment benefit plan or other agreement that provides
more generous paid leave to an employee than required in this article.
3.Diminish
the rights of public employees regarding paid sick time or use of paid sick
time as otherwise provided by law.
4.Preempt,
limit or otherwise affect the applicability of any other law, regulation,
requirement, policy or standard that provides for greater accrual or use by
employees of sick time, whether paid or unpaid, or that extends other
protections to employees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-373.Use of earned sick time
A.An
employee may use earned sick time:
1.for An
employee's:
(a)Mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition.
(b)Need for medical diagnosis, care
or treatment of a mental or physical illness, injury or health condition.
(c)Need for preventive medical
care.
2.for an
employee's need to Care for a family member with a mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition:
(a)Who
needs medical diagnosis, care or treatment of a mental or physical illness,
injury or health condition.
(b)Who needs preventive medical
care.
3.for
Closure of the employee's place of business by order of a public official due
to a public health emergency.
4.for An employee's
need to care for a child whose school or place of care has been closed by order
of a public official due to a public health emergency.
5.If the
health authorities having jurisdiction or a health care provider determines
that the employee's or the employee's family member's presence in the community
would jeopardize the health of others because of the employee's or the
employee's family member's exposure to a communicable disease, whether or not
the employee or the employee's family member has actually contracted the
communicable disease.
6.for
Absence necessary due to abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking
if the leave is to do any of the following:
(a)Seek medical attention for the
employee or employee's family member to recover from physical or psychological
injury or disability that is caused by abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault
or stalking.
(b)Obtain services from a domestic
violence or sexual assault program or victim services organization.
(c)Obtain psychological or other
counseling.
(d)Seek relocation due to the
abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
(e)Take legal action, including
preparing for or participating in any civil or criminal legal proceeding that
is related to or resulting from the abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or
stalking.
B.The
employer shall provide earned sick time on the oral or written request of an
employee.If possible, the employee shall include in the request the
expected duration of the absence.
C.If the use
of earned sick time is foreseeable, the employee shall do both of the
following:
1.Make a
goodfaith effort to provide oral or written notice of the need for
earned sick time to the employer in advance of the use of the earned sick time.
2.Make a
reasonable effort to schedule the use of earned sick time in a manner that does
not unduly disrupt the operations of the employer.
D.If the
use of earned sick time is not foreseeable, the employee shall notify the
employer orally or in writing as soon as practicable.
E.Earned
sick time is compensated at the same hourly rate and with the same benefits,
including health care benefits, as the employee normally earns during hours
worked, except that the hourly wage may not be less than that prescribed in
section 23-363.
F.For
earned sick time of more than three consecutive days, an employer may require
reasonable documentation that the earned sick time is for a purpose prescribed
by subsection A of this section. Reasonable documentation includes:
1.Documentation
that is signed by a heath professional that indicates that earned sick time is
necessary.
2.A police
report that indicates that the employee or employee's family member was a
victim of abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
3.A court
order, protective order, injunction against harassment or other evidence from a
court or prosecuting attorney that affirms that the employee or employee's
family member is involved in legal action that is related to abuse, domestic
violence, sexual assault or stalking.
4.A signed
statement from a domestic violence or sexual assault program or victim services
organization affirming that the employee or employee's family member is
receiving services related to abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or
stalking.
5.A signed
statement from a witness advocate affirming that the employee or employee's
family member is involved in legal action or relocation that is related to
abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
6.A signed
statement from an attorney, member of the clergy or health professional
affirming that the employee or employee's family member is a victim of abuse,
domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
7.An
employee's written statement affirming that the employee or employee's family
member is a victim of abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking and
that the earned sick time was taken for that purpose. a written statement
provided pursuant to this paragraph does not need to be in affidavit format or
notarized but shall be legible and make clear the employee's identity and, if
applicable, the employee's relationship to the family member.
G.The
provision of documentation pursuant to subsection f of this section does not
waive or diminish any confidential or privileged communications between a
victim of abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking and the person
that provides the documentation.
H.An
employer may not require that the documentation explain the nature of the
illness or the details of the abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or
stalking. If an employer chooses to require documentation for earned sick time
and the employee does not have health insurance, the employer is responsible
for paying all of the outofpocket expenses the employee incurs in
obtaining the documentation. If the employee does have health insurance, the
employer is responsible for paying any costs the health care provider charges
to the employee for providing the specific documentation that the employer
requires.
I.An
employee shall provide documentation on request to the employer in a timely
manner. The employer may not delay the commencement of the earned sick time on
the basis that the employer has not received documentation.
J.An
employer may not require, as a condition of providing earned sick time, that
the employee search for or find a replacement worker to cover the hours during
which the employee is on earned sick time.
K.An
employee may use earned sick time in either hourly increments or the smallest increments
that the employer's payroll system uses to account for absences or use of other
time, whichever is smaller.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-374.Protection of rights; retaliation prohibition
A.It is
unlawful for an employer or any other person to interfere with, restrain or
deny the exercise of, or the attempt to exercise, any right that is provided
under this article.
B.An
employer may not engage in retaliation or discrimination against an employee
because the employee has exercised, or attempted to exercise, any right that is
provided under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-375.Notice and posting
A.An
Employer shall give notice to an employee at the commencement of employment or
by January 1, 2017, whichever is later, of the following:
1.Employees
are entitled to earned sick time, the amount of earned sick time and the terms
of its use guaranteed under this article.
2.Retaliation
against employees who request or use earned sick time is prohibited.
3.Each
employee may file a complaint or bring a civil action if the employer denies
earned sick time or the employee is retaliated against for requesting or taking
earned sick time.
B.To comply
with this section, an Employer shall:
1.Supply
each employee with a notice that contains in English, spanish and any language
that is the first language spoken by at least ten percent of the employer's
workforce the information that is required in subsection A of this section.
2.Display a
poster in a conspicuous and accessible place in each establishment where
employees are employed that contains in English, spanish and any language that
is the first language spoken by at least ten percent of the employer's
workforce the information that is required in subsection A of this section.
C.The
commission shall create and make available to employers notices and posters
that contain in English, spanish and any language deemed appropriate by the
commission the information that is required under subsection A of this section
for the employers' use in complying with this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-376.Employer records
An Employer shall retain records that document hours worked
by employees and earned sick time taken by employees for a period of at least
three years and shall allow the commission access to these records, with
appropriate notice and at a mutually agreeable time, to monitor compliance with
the requirements of this Article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-377.Enforcement; civil penalty
A.The
commission shall:
1.Implement
and enforce this article and adopt rules for these purposes.
2.develop
and implement an outreach and education program to inform employees of their
rights under this article that includes the distribution of notices and other
written materials to child care and elder care providers, domestic violence
shelters, schools, hospitals, community health centers, other health providers
and other organizations.
B.An
employee or other person may report to the commission any suspected violation
of this Article. The commission shall keep confidential the name and other
identifying information of the employee or person that reports the violation,
except that the commission may disclose this information as authorized by the
employee or other person as necessary to enforce this section or for other
appropriate purposes.
C.Any
person that is injured by a violation of this article may maintain a civil
action to enforce this article in a court of competent jurisdiction and may be
awarded reasonable attorney fees and costs.
D.Any
employer that violates recordkeeping, posting or other requirements that the
commission establishes under this article is subject to a civil penalty of at
least one hundred dollars but not more than two hundred dollars for each
separate violation.
E.Any
employer that fails to provide earned sick time as required under this article
or engages in retaliation against an employee for the use of earned sick time
in violation of this article is subject to a civil penalty of at least one
thousand five hundred dollars but not more than two thousand five hundred
dollars and shall pay the employee an amount set by the commission or a court
that is sufficient to compensate the employee and deter future violations.
F.A
civil action to enforce this article may be commenced not later than two years
after the date the employee knew or should have known of the violation, or
three years in the case of a wilful violation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-378.Confidentiality
A.An
employer may not require disclosure of details that relate to abuse, domestic
violence, sexual assault or stalking or the details of an employee's medical
condition as a condition of receiving earned sick time leave.
B.An
employer may not disclose except to the affected employee or with the
permission of the affected employee health information or information that
relates to abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking about an
employee or employee's family member, and this information shall be treated as
confidential.
C.Any
health or safety information possessed by an employer regarding an employee or
an employee's family member shall be maintained on a separate form and in a
separate file from other personnel information.END_STATUTE
ARTICLE 8.2.FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING
START_STATUTE23-381.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Bona
fide business reason" means:
(a)The identifiable burden of
additional costs to an employer, including the cost of productivity loss,
retraining or hiring employees or transferring employees from one facility to
another facility.
(b)A significant detrimental effect
on the employer's ability to meet organizational needs or customer demand. 
(c)A significant inability of the
employer, despite best efforts, to reorganize work among existing staff.
(d)A significant detrimental effect
on business performance.
(e)Insufficiency of work during the
periods an employee proposes to work.
(f)The need to balance competing
scheduling requests when it is not possible to grant all scheduling requests
without a significant detrimental effect on the employer's ability to meet
organizational needs.
(g)Another reason prescribed by the
commission in rule.
2."Careerrelated
educational or training program" means an educational or training program
offered by a career and technical education school, an institution of higher
education or another entity that provides education, career and technical
education or training that leads to a postsecondary degree.
3."Caregiver"
means an individual who is a significant provider of:
(a)ongoing care or education for a
child, including an individual who is responsible for securing ongoing care or
education for a child.
(b)Ongoing care for a family
member, including an individual who is responsible for securing ongoing care
for a family member.
4."Commission"
means the industrial commission of Arizona.
5."Employee"
means any person who is employed by an employer for more than eighty hours in a
calendar year. Employee does not include an individual employed by this state,
a political subdivision of this state or the united states or covered by a
valid collective bargaining agreement that expressly governs work scheduling
practices in clear and unambiguous terms.
6."Employer"
includes any corporation, proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, association, individual or other entity acting
directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an
employee, but does not include this state, a political subdivision of this
state or the United States.
7."Family
member" means:
(a)A biological, adopted or foster
child, a stepchild or legal ward, a child of a domestic partner or a child for
whom the employee serves as a temporary guardian.
(b)A biological, foster or adoptive
parent or legal guardian of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner, a stepparent of the employee or the employee's spouse or domestic
partner or an individual who was a temporary guardian of the employee when the
employee was a minor.
(c)The spouse or domestic partner
of the employee.
(d)A grandparent or a spouse or
domestic partner of a grandparent.
(e)A biological, foster or adopted
sibling or a spouse or domestic partner of a biological, foster or adopted
sibling.
(f)A grandchild.
(g)Any other individual who is
related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the
equivalent of a family relationship.
8."Retaliation"
means any threat, discharge, suspension, demotion, reduction of hours by an
employer of an employee or other adverse action that an employer takes against
an employee and includes any sanctions against a recipient of public benefits
or interference with or punishment for participating in an investigation,
proceeding or hearing under this article.
9."split
shift" means a schedule of daily hours in which the hours worked are not
consecutive. A split shift does not include a schedule in which the total time
out for meals is not more than one hour.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-382.Request for change in the terms and conditions of
employment 
A.An
employee may request a change in the terms and conditions of employment related
to:
1.The
number of hours the employee is required to work or be on call for work.
2.The times
when the employee is required to work or be on call for work.
3.The
location where the employee is required to work.
4.The
amount of notification the employee receives of work schedule assignments.
5.the
Minimization of fluctuations in the number of hours the employee is scheduled
to work on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
B.If an
employee requests a change in the terms and conditions of employment as
prescribed by subsection A of this section, the employer shall engage in a
timely, goodfaith interactive process with the employee, including
discussing potential schedule changes that would meet the employee's needs. If
the employer denies the proposed change in the terms and conditions of
employment requested by the employee, the employer shall consider alternatives
to the proposed change that may meet the employee's needs. If the employer
denies the alternative change, the employer shall state the reason for the
denial.
C.If the
employer requires clarification of the information provided by the employee in
the request to change the terms and conditions of employment, the employer
shall explain what additional information is needed and provide the employee
reasonable time to produce the information.
D.If an
employee requests a change in the terms and conditions of employment as
prescribed in subsection A of this section because of a serious health
condition of the employee, the employee's responsibilities as a caregiver for a
family member or the employee's enrollment in a careerrelated
educational or training program, or if the employee is a parttime
employee and the request is related to a second job, the employer shall grant
the request, unless the employer has a bona fide business reason for denying
the request.
E.If an
employee requests a change in the terms and conditions of employment as
prescribed in subsection A of this section for a reason other than the reasons
provided in subsection D of this section, the employer may deny the request for
any lawful reason. If the employer denies the request, the employer shall
provide the employee with the reason for the denial, including if the reason is
a bona fide business reason. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-383.Pay and schedule notice requirements for retail, food
service or cleaning employees; definition 
A.An
employer shall pay an employee as follows:
1.For at
least four hours at the employee's regular rate of pay for each day on which
the employee reports for work under specific instructions, but is given less
than four hours of work, except that if the employee's scheduled hours are less
than four hours, the employee shall be paid for the employee's scheduled hours
for that day if given less than the scheduled hours of work.
2.For at
least one hour at the employee's regular rate of pay for each day the employee
is given specific instructions to contact the employer, or wait to be contacted
by the employer, less than twentyfour hours in advance of the start of
the potential work shift to determine if the employee must report to work for
the shift.
3.For one
additional hour at the employee's regular rate of pay for each day during which
the employee works a split shift.
B.An
employer shall:
1.On or
before a new employee's first day of work, inform the employee in writing of
the employee's work schedule and the minimum number of expected work hours the
employee will be assigned to work per month.
2.Except as
provided in subsection C of this section, if the employee's work schedule
changes from the work schedule of which the employee was informed pursuant to
paragraph 1 of this subsection, provide a new work schedule to the employee at
least fourteen days before the first day of the new work schedule. If the
expected minimum number of work hours an employee is assigned changes, the
employer shall notify the employee of the change of work hours at least
fourteen days before the change goes into effect. This paragraph does not
prohibit an employer from providing greater advance notice to an employee than
is required under this paragraph.
3.Post the
work schedule in a conspicuous place in every establishment where an employee
is employed. Availability of the work schedule by electronic means accessible
by all employees is considered compliance with this paragraph.
C.An
employer may change the work schedule as needed, including offering additional
hours of work to employees beyond the hours previously scheduled. An employer
shall provide one extra hour of pay at the employee's regular rate for each
shift that is changed with less than twentyfour hours' notice, unless
the need to schedule the employee is due to the unforeseen unavailability of
the employee previously scheduled to work that shift.
D.The
notifications required under subsection B of this section shall be in writing.
An employer may use additional means of notifying an employee of the employee's
work schedule.
E.This
section does not:
1.Prevent
an employer from allowing an employee to work in place of another employee who
has been scheduled to work a particular shift if the change in schedule is
mutually agreed on by the employees. An employer is not subject to the
requirements of subsection B, paragraph 2 or subsection C of this section for
voluntary shift trades.
2.Apply
during periods when regular operations of the employer are suspended due to
events beyond the employer's control.
F.For the
purposes of this section, "employee" means any person who is employed
in a retail sales occupation, food preparation and service related occupation
or building cleaning occupation.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-384.Protection of rights; retaliation prohibition
A.It is
unlawful for an employer or any other person to interfere with, restrain or
deny the exercise of, or the attempt to exercise, any right that is provided
under this article.
B.An
employer may not engage in retaliation or discrimination against an employee
because the employee has exercised, or attempted to exercise, any right that is
provided under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-385.Notice and posting
A.An
Employer shall give notice to an employee at the commencement of employment or
by January 1, 2017, whichever is later, of the following:
1.Employees
are entitled to request a change in the terms and conditions of employment
pursuant to Section 23382.
2.Retaliation
against employees who request a change in the terms and conditions of
employment pursuant to Section 23382 is prohibited.
3.Each
employee may file a complaint or bring a civil action if the employer violates
this article or the employee is retaliated against for requesting a change in
the terms and conditions of employment.
B.To comply
with this section, an Employer shall:
1.Supply
each employee with a notice that contains in English, spanish and any language
that is the first language spoken by at least ten percent of the employer's
workforce the information that is required in subsection A of this section.
2.Display a
poster in a conspicuous and accessible place in each establishment where
employees are employed that contains in English, spanish and any language that
is the first language spoken by at least ten percent of the employer's
workforce the information that is required in subsection A of this section.
C.The
commission shall create and make available to employers notices and posters
that contain in English, spanish and any language deemed appropriate by the
commission the information that is required under subsection A of this section
for the employers' use in complying with this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-386.Employer records
An Employer shall retain records that document compliance
with this article for a period of at least three years and shall allow the
commission access to these records, with appropriate notice and at a mutually
agreeable time, to monitor compliance with the requirements of this Article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-387.Enforcement; civil penalties
A.The
commission shall:
1.Implement
and enforce this article and adopt rules for these purposes.
2.develop
and implement an outreach and education program to inform employees of their
rights under this article that includes the distribution of notices and other
written materials to employers and labor organizations.
B.An
employee or other person may report to the commission any suspected violation
of this Article. The commission shall keep confidential the name and other
identifying information of the employee or person that reports the violation,
except that the commission may disclose this information as authorized by the
employee or other person as necessary to enforce this section or for other
appropriate purposes.
C.Any
person that is injured by a violation of this article may maintain a civil
action to enforce this article in a court of competent jurisdiction and may be
awarded reasonable attorney fees and costs.
D.Any
employer that violates recordkeeping, posting or other requirements that the
commission establishes under this article is subject to a civil penalty of not
more than one hundred dollars for each separate violation.
E.Any
employer that wilfully violates this article is subject to a civil penalty of
not more than one hundred dollars for each violation and shall pay the employee
an amount set by the commission or a court that is sufficient to compensate the
employee and deter future violations.
F.Any
employer that retaliates against an employee for exercising, or attempting to
exercise, any right provided by this article is subject to a civil penalty of
not more than one thousand one hundred dollars and shall pay the employee an amount
set by the commission or a court that is sufficient to compensate the employee
and deter future violations.
g.A
civil action to enforce this article may be commenced not later than two years
after the date the employee knew or should have known of the violation, or
three years in the case of a wilful violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 41, chapter 23, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-2535.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-2535.01.Equal pay certificate required; waiver; voiding of
contract; hearing
A.Beginning January 1, 2017, a business that has
at least forty fulltime employees in this state or the state where the
business's primary place of business is located must have an equal pay
certificate issued by the industrial commission of Arizona or an equal pay
certificate waiver issued by the procurement officer to be eligible to contract
with any purchasing agency in this state for a procurement that exceeds an
aggregate amount of five hundred thousand dollars.
B.The procurement officer may issue an equal pay
certificate waiver to a business for a specific contract if the procurement
officer determines that application of this section would cause undue hardship
to the purchasing agency.
C.The procurement officer may void a contract on
behalf of this state if the contract is awarded to a business that does not
have an equal pay certificate or an equal pay certificate waiver or whose equal
pay certificate has been suspended or revoked pursuant to section 23342.The
procurement officer shall notify all parties to the contract before taking
action to void the contract.
D.A business may request a hearing to appeal the
procurement officer's action to void the contract pursuant to chapter 6,
article 10 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 23-362, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by Laws 1997,
chapter 51, section 1 and repealed by this act and section 23363,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, are effective only on the
affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members of each house of the
legislature.

