







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; bullying policy; definition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1408









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Sherwood: Contreras, Dalessandro, Farley,
  Quezada





AN ACT

amending section
15-101, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 15, chapter 1, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-186; amending section 15341,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to student conduct.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Accommodation school" means either:
(a)A school that is operated through the county
board of supervisors and the county school superintendent and that the county
school superintendent administers to serve a military reservation or territory
that is not included within the boundaries of a school district.
(b)A school that provides educational services to
homeless children or alternative education programs as provided in section 15308,
subsectionB.
(c)A school that is established to serve a military
reservation, the boundaries of which are coterminous with the boundaries of the
military reservation on which the school is located.
2."Assessed valuation" means the
valuation derived by applying the applicable percentage as provided in title
42, chapter 15, article 1 to the full cash value or limited property value,
whichever is applicable, of the property.
3."Bullying"
means any written, verbal or physical act or any electronic communication that
is intended to harm or that a reasonable person would know is likely to harm
one or more pupils by doing any of the following:
(a)Substantially interfering with
the educational opportunities, benefits or programs of one or more pupils.
(b)Adversely affecting the ability
of a pupil to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities
by placing the pupil in reasonable fear of physical harm or by causing
substantial emotional distress.
(c)Having an actual and substantial
detrimental effect on a pupil's physical or mental health.
(d)Causing substantial disruption
in, or substantial interference with, the orderly operation of a school.
3.4."Charter
holder" means a person that enters into a charter with the state board for
charter schools.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association
or public or private organization of any kind.
4.5."Charter
school" means a public school established by contract with a district
governing board, the state board of education, the state board for charter
schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, a
community college district with enrollment of more than fifteen thousand fulltime
equivalent students or a group of community college districts with a combined
enrollment of more than fifteen thousand fulltime equivalent students
pursuant to article 8 of this chapter to provide learning that will improve
pupil achievement.
5.6."Child with
a disability" means a child with a disability as defined in section 15761.
6.7."Class A
bonds" means general obligation bonds approved by a vote of the qualified
electors of a school district at an election held on or before December 31,
1998.
7.8."Class B
bonds" means general obligation bonds approved by a vote of the qualified
electors of a school district at an election held from and after December 31,
1998.
8.9."Competency"
means a demonstrated ability in a skill at a specified performance level.
9.10."Course"
means organized subject matter in which instruction is offered within a given
period of time and for which credit toward promotion, graduation or
certification is usually given.A course consists of knowledge
selected from a subject for instructional purposes in the schools.
10.11."Course of
study" means a list of required and optional subjects to be taught in the
schools.
11.12."Dual
enrollment course" means a college
level college-level
course that is conducted on the campus of a high school or on the campus of a
joint technical education district, that is applicable to an established
community college academic degree or certificate program and that is
transferable to a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of
regents. A dual enrollment course that is applicable to a community college
occupational degree or certificate program may be transferable to a university
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
12.13."Elementary
grades" means kindergarten programs and grades one through eight. 
13.14."Fiscal
year" means the year beginning July 1 and ending June30.
14.15."Governing
board" means a body organized for the government and management of the
schools within a school district or a county school superintendent in the conduct
of an accommodation school.
15.16."Lease"
means an agreement for conveyance and possession of real or personal property.
16.17."Limited
property value" means the value determined pursuant to title 42, chapter
13, article 7.Limited property value shall be used as the basis for
assessing, fixing, determining and levying primary property taxes.
17.18."Parent"
means the natural or adoptive parent of a child or a person who has custody of
a child.
18.19."Person who
has custody" means a parent or legal guardian of a child, a person to whom
custody of the child has been given by order of a court or a person who stands
in loco parentis to the child.
19.20."Primary
property taxes" means all ad valorem taxes except for secondary property taxes.
20.21."Private
school" means a nonpublic institution where instruction is imparted.
21.22."School"
or "public school" means any public institution established for the
purposes ofoffering instruction to pupils in programs for preschool
children with disabilities, kindergarten programs or any combination of
elementary grades or secondary grades one through twelve.
22.23."School
district" means a political subdivision of this state with geographic
boundaries organized for the purpose of the administration, support and
maintenance of the public schools or an accommodation school.
23.24."Secondary
grades" means grades nine through twelve.
24.25."Secondary
property taxes" means ad valorem taxes used to pay the principal of and
the interest and redemption charges on any bonded indebtedness or other lawful
longterm obligation issued or incurred for a specific purpose by a
school district or a community college district and amounts levied pursuant to
an election to exceed a budget, expenditure or tax limitation.
25.26."Subject"
means a division or field of organized knowledge, such as English or
mathematics, or a selection from an organized body of knowledge for a course or
teaching unit, such as the English novel or elementary algebra. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 1, article 8, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-186, to read:
START_STATUTE15-186.Bullying policies and procedures
Charter schools shall
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from
harassing, intimidating and bullying other pupils. These policies may include
a policy prohibiting bullying, intimidation and harassment at any off-campus
location or activity if the alleged activity is reported to school officials
and if the bullying, intimidation or harassment creates a hostile environment
for the alleged victim at school, infringes on the rights of the alleged victim
at school or materially and substantially disrupts the education process or the
orderly operation of the school. These policies and procedures shall include
all of the following:
1.A policy
prohibiting Harassment, intimidation and bullying through the use of electronic
technology and electronic communications on school grounds, on school property,
on school buses, at school bus stops, at schoolsponsored events and on
school computers, networks, forums and mailing lists.
2.A
statement that all pupils are protected under these policies and that bullying
is prohibited without regard to the subject matter of the bullying or the
motivation of the perpetrator.
3.A
procedure for pupils, parents and charter school employees to confidentially
report to school officials incidents of harassment, intimidation or
bullying.The charter school shall make available written forms
designed to provide a full and detailed description of the incident and any
other relevant information about the incident.
4.A
requirement that charter school employees report in writing suspected incidents
of harassment, intimidation or bullying to the appropriate school official and
a description of appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees who fail to
report suspected incidents that are known to the employee.
5.A
requirement that, at the beginning of each school year, school officials
provide all pupils with a written copy of the rights, protections and support
services available to a pupil who is an alleged victim of an incident reported
pursuant to this section.
6.If an
incident is reported pursuant to this section, a requirement that school
officials, in compliance with state rules and federal regulations adopted to
comply with the family educational rights and privacy act, notify the parent or
guardian of the alleged victim and provide the alleged victim of the incident
with a written copy of the rights, protections and support services available
to that pupil.In order to avoid additional negative consequences to
the alleged victim's health and wellbeing and before notifying the
parent of the alleged victim, school administrators, in consultation with
on-site school counselors and social workers, if available, shall evaluate the
notification in the same manner as any other educationally relevant decision by
considering the health, wellbeing and safety of any pupils involved in
the incident.Notification of the parent or guardian of a pupil who
is the alleged perpetrator shall be provided pursuant to the charter school's
disciplinary notification policies and procedures.
7.A formal
process for the documentation of reported incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying and for the confidentiality, maintenance and disposition of this
documentation.Charter Schools shall maintain documentation of all
incidents reported pursuant to this section for at least six
years.The charter school shall not use that documentation to impose
disciplinary action unless the appropriate school official has investigated and
determined that the reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
occurred.If a charter school provides documentation of reported
incidents to persons other than school officials or law enforcement, all
individually identifiable information shall be redacted.
8.A formal
process for the investigation by the appropriate school officials of suspected
incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying, including procedures for the
timely notification of the alleged victim and the parent or guardian of the
alleged victim on completion and disposition of the investigation.
9.Disciplinary
procedures for pupils who have admitted committing or been found to have
committed incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
10.A
procedure that sets forth consequences for submitting false reports of
incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
11.Procedures
designed to protect the health and safety of pupils who are physically or
emotionally harmed, or both, as the result of an incident of harassment,
intimidation or bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to contact
emergency medical services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
12.An
education requirement designed to prevent harassment, intimidation or bullying
that includes annual training for administrators and charter school employees
in preventing, identifying, responding to and reporting incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying.This requirement shall also
include similar training for pupils and parents.
13.The same
definition of bullying prescribed in section 15101. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-341.General powers and duties; immunity; delegation
A.The governing board shall:
1.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures for
the governance of the schools, not inconsistent with law or rules prescribed by
the state board of education.
2.Exclude from schools all books, publications,
papers or audiovisual materials of a sectarian, partisan or denominational
character.This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the
elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
3.Manage and control the school property within its
district.
4.Acquire school furniture, apparatus, equipment,
library books and supplies for the use of the schools.
5.Prescribe the curricula and criteria for the
promotion and graduation of pupils as provided in sections 15701 and 15701.01.
6.Furnish, repair and insure, at full insurable
value, the school property of the district.
7.Construct school buildings on approval by a vote
of the district electors.
8.Make in the name of the district conveyances of
property belonging to the district and sold by the board.
9.Purchase school sites when authorized by a vote
of the district at an election conducted as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as the election provided in section 15481 and held on a date
prescribed in section 15491, subsection E, but such authorization shall
not necessarily specify the site to be purchased and such authorization shall
not be necessary to exchange unimproved property as provided in section 15342,
paragraph 23.
10.Construct, improve and furnish buildings used
for school purposes when such buildings or premises are leased from the
national park service.
11.Purchase school sites or construct, improve and
furnish school buildings from the proceeds of the sale of school property only
on approval by a vote of the district electors.
12.Hold pupils to strict account for disorderly
conduct on school property.
13.Discipline students for disorderly conduct on
the way to and from school.
14.Except as provided in section 151224,
deposit all monies received by the district as gifts, grants and devises with
the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits as designated in the uniform
system of financial records. If not inconsistent with the terms of the gifts,
grants and devises given, any balance remaining after expenditures for the
intended purpose of the monies have been made shall be used for reduction of
school district taxes for the budget year, except that in the case of
accommodation schools the county treasurer shall carry the balance forward for
use by the county school superintendent for accommodation schools for the
budget year.
15.Provide that, if a parent or legal guardian
chooses not to accept a decision of the teacher as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4, the parent or legal guardian may request in writing that the
governing board review the teacher's decision. This paragraph shall not be construed to release school
districts from any liability relating to a child's promotion or retention.
16.Provide for adequate supervision over pupils in
instructional and noninstructional activities by certificated or
noncertificated personnel.
17.Use school monies received from the state and
county school apportionment exclusively for payment of salaries of teachers and
other employees and contingent expenses of the district.
18.Make an annual report to the county school
superintendent on or before October 1 in the manner and form and on the blanks
prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction or county school
superintendent. The board shall also make reports directly to the county
school superintendent or the superintendent of public instruction whenever
required.
19.Deposit all monies received by school districts
other than student activities monies or monies from auxiliary operations as
provided in sections 151125 and 151126 with the county treasurer
to the credit of the school district except as provided in paragraph 20 of this
subsection and sections 151223 and 151224, and the board shall
expend the monies as provided by law for other school funds.
20.Establish bank accounts in which the board
during a month may deposit miscellaneous monies received directly by the
district. The board shall remit monies deposited in the bank accounts at least
monthly to the county treasurer for deposit as provided in paragraph 19 of this
subsection and in accordance with the uniform system of financial records.
21.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against a teacher who engages in conduct that is a
violation of the policies of the governing board but that is not cause for
dismissal of the teacher or for revocation of the certificate of the
teacher.Disciplinary action may include suspension without pay for
a period of time not to exceed ten school days. Disciplinary action shall not
include suspension with pay or suspension without pay for a period of time
longer than ten school days. The procedures shall include notice, hearing and
appeal provisions for violations that are cause for disciplinary action. The
governing board may designate a person or persons to act on behalf of the board
on these matters.
22.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against an administrator who engages in conduct that is
a violation of the policies of the governing board regarding duties of
administrators but that is not cause for dismissal of the administrator or for
revocation of the certificate of the administrator. Disciplinary action may
include suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school
days. Disciplinary action shall not include suspension with pay or suspension
without pay for a period of time longer than ten school days.The
procedures shall include notice, hearing and appeal provisions for violations
that are cause for disciplinary action. The governing board may designate a
person or persons to act on behalf of the board on these
matters.For violations that are cause for dismissal, the provisions
of notice, hearing and appeal in chapter 5, article 3 of this title shall
apply. The filing of a timely request for a hearing suspends the imposition of
a suspension without pay or a dismissal pending completion of the hearing.
23.Notwithstanding sections 133108 and 133120,
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures that prohibit a person from
carrying or possessing a weapon on school grounds unless the person is a peace
officer or has obtained specific authorization from the school administrator.
24.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
relating to the health and safety of all pupils participating in district
sponsored practice sessions or games or other interscholastic athletic
activities, including:
(a)The provision of water.
(b)Guidelines, information and forms, developed in
consultation with a statewide private entity that supervises interscholastic
activities, to inform and educate coaches, pupils and parents of the dangers of
concussions and head injuries and the risks of continued participation in
athletic activity after a concussion. The policies and procedures shall
require that, before a pupil participates in an athletic activity, the pupil
and the pupil's parent must sign an information form at least once each school
year that states that the parent is aware of the nature and risk of concussion.
The policies and procedures shall require that a pupil who is suspected of
sustaining a concussion in a practice session, game or other interscholastic
athletic activity be immediately removed from the athletic
activity.A coach from the pupil's team or an official or a licensed
health care provider may remove a pupil from play.A team parent may
also remove the parent's own child from play. A pupil may return to play on
the same day if a health care provider rules out a suspected concussion at the
time the pupil is removed from play. On a subsequent day, the pupil may return
to play if the pupil has been evaluated by and received written clearance to
resume participation in athletic activity from a health care provider who has
been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and head
injuries. A health care provider who is a volunteer and who provides clearance
to participate in athletic activity on the day of the suspected injury or on a
subsequent day is immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions
made and actions taken that are based on good faith implementation of the
requirements of this subdivision, except in cases of gross negligence or wanton
or wilful neglect. A school district, school district employee, team coach, official
or team volunteer or a parent or guardian of a team member is not subject to
civil liability for any act, omission or policy undertaken in good faith to
comply with the requirements of this subdivision or for a decision made or an
action taken by a health care provider.A group or organization that
uses property or facilities owned or operated by a school district for athletic
activities shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision.A
school district and its employees and volunteers are not subject to civil
liability for any other person or organization's failure or alleged failure to
comply with the requirements of this subdivision. This subdivision does not
apply to teams that are based in another state and that participate in an athletic
activity in this state.For the purposes of this subdivision,
athletic activity does not include dance, rhythmic gymnastics, competitions or
exhibitions of academic skills or knowledge or other similar forms of physical
noncontact activities, civic activities or academic activities, whether engaged
in for the purposes of competition or recreation.For the purposes
of this subdivision, "health care provider" means a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17, an athletic trainer who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 41, a nurse practitioner who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, and a physician assistant who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 25.
25.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
regarding the smoking of tobacco within school buildings.The
policies and procedures shall be adopted in consultation with school district
personnel and members of the community and shall state whether smoking is
prohibited in school buildings. If smoking in school buildings is not
prohibited, the policies and procedures shall clearly state the conditions and
circumstances under which smoking is permitted, those areas in a school
building that may be designated as smoking areas and those areas in a school
building that may not be designated as smoking areas.
26.Establish an assessment, data gathering and
reporting system as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
27.Provide special education programs and related
services pursuant to section 15764, subsection A to all children with
disabilities as defined in section 15761.
28.Administer competency tests prescribed by the
state board of education for the graduation of pupils from high school.
29.Ensure that insurance coverage is secured for
all construction projects for purposes of general liability, property damage
and workers' compensation and secure performance and payment bonds for all
construction projects.
30.Keep on file the resumes of all current and
former employees who provide instruction to pupils at a
school.Resumes shall include an individual's educational and
teaching background and experience in a particular academic content subject
area.A school district shall inform parents and guardians of the
availability of the resume information and shall make the resume information
available for inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled
at a school.This paragraph shall not be construed to require any
school to release personally identifiable information in relation to any
teacher or employee, including the teacher's or employee's address, salary,
social security number or telephone number.
31.Report to local law enforcement agencies any
suspected crime against a person or property that is a serious offense as
defined in section 13706 or that involves a deadly weapon or dangerous
instrument or serious physical injury and any conduct that poses a threat of
death or serious physical injury to employees, students or anyone on the
property of the school. This paragraph does not limit or preclude the
reporting by a school district or an employee of a school district of suspected
crimes other than those required to be reported by this paragraph. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "dangerous instrument", "deadly
weapon" and "serious physical injury" have the same meanings
prescribed in section 13105.
32.In conjunction with local law enforcement
agencies and local medical facilities, develop an emergency response plan for
each school in the school district in accordance with minimum standards
developed jointly by the department of education and the division of emergency
management within the department of emergency and military affairs.
33.Provide written notice
to the parents or guardians of all students affected in the school district at
least ten days prior to a public meeting to discuss closing a school within the
school district.The notice shall include the reasons for the
proposed closure and the time and place of the meeting.The
governing board shall fix a time for a public meeting on the proposed closure
no less than ten days before voting in a public meeting to close the school.
The school district governing board shall give notice of the time and place of
the meeting.At the time and place designated in the notice, the
school district governing board shall hear reasons for or against closing the
school.The school district governing board is exempt from this
paragraph if it is determined by the governing board that the school shall be
closed because it poses a danger to the health or safety of the pupils or
employees of the school.A governing board may consult with the
school facilities board for technical assistance and for information on the
impact of closing a school.The information provided from the school
facilities board shall not require the governing board to take or not take any
action.
34.Incorporate
instruction on Native American history into appropriate existing curricula.
35.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures:
(a)Allowing pupils
who have been diagnosed with anaphylaxis by a health care provider licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 14, 17 or 25 or by a registered nurse
practitioner licensed and certified pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 to carry
and self-administer emergency medications, including autoinjectable
epinephrine, while at school and at schoolsponsored activities. The
pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication container or on the
medication device and annual written documentation from the pupil's parent or
guardian to the school that authorizes possession and self-administration is
sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to the possession and selfadministration
of the medication.The policies shall require a pupil who uses
auto-injectable epinephrine while at school and at schoolsponsored
activities to notify the nurse or the designated school staff person of the use
of the medication as soon as practicable. A school district and its employees
are immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions made and actions
taken that are based on good faith implementation of the requirements of this
subdivision, except in cases of wanton or wilful neglect.
(b)For the emergency administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine by a trained employee of a school district pursuant to section 15157.
36.Allow the possession
and self-administration of prescription medication for breathing disorders in
handheld inhaler devices by pupils who have been prescribed that medication by
a health care professional licensed pursuant to title 32.The
pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication container or on the
handheld inhaler device and annual written documentation from the pupil's
parent or guardian to the school that authorizes possession and
self-administration shall be sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to the
possession and selfadministration of the medication.A school
district and its employees are immune from civil liability with respect to all
decisions made and actions taken that are based on a good faith implementation
of the requirements of this paragraph.
37.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from harassing, intimidating and
bullying other pupils. These policies
may include a policy prohibiting bullying, intimidation and harassment at any
off-campus location or activity if the alleged activity is reported to school
officials and if the bullying, intimidation or harassment creates a hostile
environment for the alleged victim at school, infringes on the rights of the
alleged victim at school or materially and substantially disrupts the education
process or the orderly operation of the school. These policies and procedures
shall include all of the following:
(a)A policy
prohibiting harassment, intimidation and bullying through the use of electronic
technology and electronic communications on school grounds, on
school property, on school buses, at school bus stops, at schoolsponsored
events and activities and through the use
of electronic technology or electronic communication on school
computers, networks, forums and mailing lists. that
include the following components:
(b)A statement that all pupils are protected under
these policies and that bullying is prohibited without regard to the subject
matter of the bullying or the motivation of the perpetrator.
(a)(c)A
procedure for pupils, parents and school district employees to confidentially
report to school officials incidents of harassment, intimidation or
bullying.The school shall make available written forms designed to
provide a full and detailed description of the incident and any other relevant
information about the incident.
(b)(d)A
requirement that school district employees report in writing suspected
incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying to the appropriate school
official and a description of appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees
who fail to report suspected incidents that are known to the employee.
(c)(e)A
requirement that, at the beginning of each school year, school officials
provide all pupils with a written copy of the rights, protections and support
services available to a pupil who is an alleged victim of an incident reported
pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)(f)If
an incident is reported pursuant to this paragraph, a requirement that school
officials, in compliance with state
rules and federal regulations adopted to comply with the family educational
rights and privacy act, notify the parent or guardian of the alleged victim and
provide a pupil who is an the alleged victim of the
incident with a written copy of the rights, protections and support services
available to that pupil.In
order to avoid additional negative consequences to the alleged victim's health
and wellbeing and before notifying the parent of the alleged victim,
school administrators, in consultation with on-site school counselors and
social workers, if available, shall evaluate the notification in the same
manner as any other educationally relevant decision by considering the health,
wellbeing and safety of any pupils involved in the incident.
Notification of the parent or guardian of a pupil who is the alleged
perpetrator shall be provided pursuant to the school district's disciplinary
notification policies and procedures.
(e)(g)A
formal process for the documentation of reported incidents of harassment,
intimidation or bullying and for the confidentiality, maintenance and
disposition of this documentation.School districts shall maintain
documentation of all incidents reported pursuant to this paragraph for at least
six years.The school shall not use that documentation to impose
disciplinary action unless the appropriate school official has investigated and
determined that the reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
occurred. If a school provides documentation of reported incidents to persons
other than school officials or law enforcement, all individually identifiable
information shall be redacted.
(f)(h)A
formal process for the investigation by the appropriate school officials of
suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying, including
procedures for notifying the timely notification of the
alleged victim and the parent or
guardian of the alleged victim on completion and disposition of
the investigation.
(g)(i)Disciplinary
procedures for pupils who have admitted or been found to have committed
incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
(h)(j)A
procedure that sets forth consequences for submitting false reports of incidents
of harassment, intimidation or bullying. 
(i)(k)Procedures
designed to protect the health and safety of pupils who are physically or emotionally harmed, or both, as the result of incidents an incident of harassment, intimidation and
bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to contact emergency medical
services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
(j)Definitions
of harassment, intimidation and bullying.
(l)An education requirement designed to prevent harassment,
intimidation or bullying that includes annual training for administrators and
school employees in preventing, identifying, responding to and reporting
incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying. This requirement shall also
include similar training for pupils and parents.
(m)The same definition of bullying prescribed in
section 15101.
38.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures regarding changing or adopting attendance boundaries
that include the following components:
(a)A procedure for holding public meetings to
discuss attendance boundary changes or adoptions that allows public comments.
(b)A procedure to notify the parents or guardians
of the students affected.
(c)A procedure to notify the residents of the
households affected by the attendance boundary changes.
(d)A process for placing public meeting notices and
proposed maps on the school district's website for public review, if the school
district maintains a website.
(e)A formal process for presenting the attendance
boundaries of the affected area in public meetings that allows public comments.
(f)A formal process for notifying the residents and
parents or guardians of the affected area as to the decision of the governing
board on the school district's website, if the school district maintains a
website.
(g)A formal process for updating attendance
boundaries on the school district's website within ninety days of an adopted
boundary change. The school district shall send a direct link to the school
district's attendance boundaries website to the department of real estate.
(h)If the land that a school was built on was
donated within the past five years, a formal process to notify the entity that
donated the land affected by the decision of the governing board.
39.If the state board of education determines that
the school district has committed an overexpenditure as defined in section 15107,
provide a copy of the fiscal management report submitted pursuant to section 15107,
subsection H on its website and make copies available to the public on
request.The school district shall comply with a request within five
business days after receipt.
40.Ensure that the contract for the superintendent
is structured in a manner in which up to twenty per cent percent of the total annual salary included for the
superintendent in the contract is classified as performance pay. This
paragraph shall not be construed to require school districts to increase total
compensation for superintendents.Unless the school district
governing board votes to implement an alternative procedure at a public meeting
called for this purpose, the performance pay portion of the superintendent's
total annual compensation shall be determined as follows:
(a)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined based on
the percentage of academic gain determined by the department of education of
pupils who are enrolled in the school district compared to the academic gain
achieved by the highest ranking of the fifty largest school districts in this
state.For the purposes of this subdivision, the department of
education shall determine academic gain by the academic growth achieved by each
pupil who has been enrolled at the same school in a school district for at
least five consecutive months measured against that pupil's academic results in
the 20082009 school year.For the purposes of this
subdivision, of the fifty largest school districts in this state, the school
district with pupils who demonstrate the highest statewide percentage of
overall academic gain measured against academic results for the 20082009
school year shall be assigned a score of 100 and the school district with
pupils who demonstrate the lowest statewide percentage of overall academic gain
measured against academic results for the 20082009 school year shall be
assigned a score of 0.
(b)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of parents of pupils who are enrolled at the school district who
assign a letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of parental
satisfaction with the school district.The parental satisfaction
survey shall be administered and scored by an independent entity that is
selected by the governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and
experience to accurately measure the results of the survey. The parental
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each parent who participates in the survey.
The letter grade scale used on the parental satisfaction survey shall direct
parents to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(c)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of teachers who are employed at the school district and who assign a
letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of teacher satisfaction
with the school.The teacher satisfaction survey shall be
administered and scored by an independent entity that is selected by the
governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and experience to
accurately measure the results of the survey.The teacher
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each teacher who participates in the
survey.The letter grade scale used on the teacher satisfaction
survey shall direct teachers to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(d)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by other
criteria selected by the governing board.
41.Maintain and store permanent public records of
the school district as required by law. Notwithstanding section 39101,
the standards adopted by the Arizona state library, archives and public records
for the maintenance and storage of school district public records shall allow
school districts to elect to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by
maintaining and storing these records either on paper or in an electronic
format, or a combination of a paper and electronic format.
42.Adopt in a public meeting and implement by
school year 20132014 policies for principal
evaluations.Before the adoption of principal evaluation policies,
the school district governing board shall provide opportunities for public
discussion on the proposed policies. The policies shall describe:
(a)The principal evaluation instrument, including
the four performance classifications adopted by the governing board pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38.
(b)Alignment of professional development
opportunities to the principal evaluations.
(c)Incentives for principals in one of the two
highest performance classifications pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38, which may include:
(i)Multiyear contracts pursuant to section 15503.
(ii)Incentives to work at schools that are assigned
a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
(d)Transfer and contract processes for principals
designated in the lowest performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraphs 7, 9 and
11 of this section, the county school superintendent may construct, improve and
furnish school buildings or purchase or sell school sites in the conduct of an
accommodation school.
C.If any school district acquires real or personal
property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the
governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property
that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and
interest. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on
property acquired by a school district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens.
D.The governing board may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land regulated
pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the agricultural land
may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of section 3365.If
the owner agrees in writing to comply with the buffer zone requirements and
records the agreement in the office of the county recorder as a restrictive
covenant running with the title to the land, the school district may locate a
school within the affected buffer zone. The agreement may include any
stipulations regarding the school, including conditions for future expansion of
the school and changes in the operational status of the school that will result
in a breach of the agreement.
E.A school district, its governing board members,
its school council members and its employees are immune from civil liability
for the consequences of adoption and implementation of policies and procedures
pursuant to subsection A of this section and section 15342. This waiver
does not apply if the school district, its governing board members, its school
council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
F.A governing board may delegate in writing to a
superintendent, principal or head teacher the authority to prescribe procedures
that are consistent with the governing board's policies.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, a school district governing board shall not take any action that would
result in a reduction of pupil square footage unless the governing board
notifies the school facilities board established by section 152001 of
the proposed action and receives written approval from the school facilities
board to take the action.A reduction includes an increase in
administrative space that results in a reduction of pupil square footage or
sale of school sites or buildings, or both. A reduction includes a
reconfiguration of grades that results in a reduction of pupil square footage
of any grade level.This subsection does not apply to temporary
reconfiguration of grades to accommodate new school construction if the
temporary reconfiguration does not exceed one year.The sale of
equipment that results in a reduction that falls below the equipment
requirements prescribed in section 152011, subsection B is subject to
commensurate withholding of school district district additional assistance
monies pursuant to the direction of the school facilities
board.Except as provided in section 15342, paragraph 10,
proceeds from the sale of school sites, buildings or other equipment shall be
deposited in the school plant fund as provided in section 151102.
H.Subsections C through G of this section apply to
a county board of supervisors and a county school superintendent when operating
and administering an accommodation school. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Intent
The legislature finds and declares that:
1.All students have the right to participate fully
in the educational process, free from bullying, intimidation and harassment.
2.A safe and civil environment in school is necessary
for students to learn and to achieve high academic standards.
3.Bullying, intimidation and harassment, like other
disruptive or violent behaviors, are forms of conduct that disrupt both a
student's ability to learn and a school's ability to educate its students in a
safe environment.
4.Staff and volunteers should be expected to
demonstrate appropriate behavior, treat others with civility and respect and
refuse to tolerate bullying, intimidation and harassment.
Sec.5.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Arizona Safe Schools Act of
2016".

