







REFERENCE TITLE: study committee; commercial space flight







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1484









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING THE
COMMERCIAL SPACE FLIGHT INCENTIVES STUDY COMMITTEE.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Commercial space flight incentives study committee;
membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The commercial space flight incentives study
committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the house of representatives, one
of whom is appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and one of
whom is appointed by the minority leader of the house of representatives.
2.Two members of the senate, one of whom is
appointed by the president of the senate and one of whom is appointed by the
minority leader of the senate.
3.Two members who are professors from universities
in this state and who are faculty members with expertise in aerospace
technology or a related field, one of whom is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the president of the
senate.
4.Two members who are chief executive officers or
executives of Arizona-based aerospace business, one of whom is appointed by the
speaker of the house of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the
president of the senate.
5.Two former astronauts, one of whom is appointed
by the speaker of the house of representatives and one of whom is appointed by
the president of the senate. The committee may convene and execute committee
business without the appointment of either astronaut member.
6.One member who is a former employee of the national
aeronautics and space administration, who has mission experience and who is
appointed by the governor.
B.Members of the committee shall elect a
chairperson from among the members.
C.Committee members are not eligible to receive
compensation, but members appointed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 3, 4,
5 and 6 of this section are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
D.The committee shall:
1.Study the development of:
(a)Commercial spaceflight.
(b)Spacecraft manufacturing.
(c)Civil space flight.
(d)Military and defense spaceflight-related
contracts.
(e)Arizona launchpad facilities.
(f)Satellite operations and training.
(g)Space research.
(h)Space science and engineering research.
(i)Astronaut training.
(j)Aerospace education.
2.Recommend policies to grow the aerospace industry
in this state and make this state's aerospace industry nationally and globally
competitive.
3.Evaluate short-term and long-term predictions
regarding this state's aerospace industry.
4.Identify potential funding sources for this
state's aerospace industry.
E.The legislature shall provide staff and support
services to the committee.
F.The committee shall meet at the state capitol or
at other places as the chairperson deems necessary or convenient, and all
meetings shall be open to the public.
G.On or before September 1, 2017, the study
committee shall submit a report regarding its findings and recommendations to
the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of
the senate and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
H.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2017.

