







REFERENCE TITLE: longterm care insurance; rates;
  premiums







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1441









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending section
201691.08, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 20, chapter 6,
article 15, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 201691.13;
relating to longterm care insurance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-1691.08, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1691.08.Rate and form review; disapproval; premium adjustments
A.A person shall not deliver or issue for delivery
in this state any longterm care insurance policy or rate unless the
person has first filed the form or rate with the director and the director has
approved the form or rate.Unless the director issues an order
affirmatively approving or disapproving the form or rate within thirty days
after filing, the form or rate is deemed approved.On written notice
given to the insurer within the thirty day period, the director may extend the
thirty day review period for up to fifteen additional days.
B.The director shall disapprove a rate or form if
either:
1.The rate is not in compliance with this article
or any rules adopted pursuant to this article.
2.The form contains provisions that are ambiguous,
misleading or deceptive, that encourage misrepresentation of the coverage or that
are contrary to this title or of any rule adopted pursuant to this title.
C.The
department shall establish by rule formal procedures for the review and
approval of longterm care insurance premium adjustments.The
procedures shall specify all documentation that is required to be filed with
the director when filing for a premium adjustment, including the actuarial
assumptions that are used by the insurer to determine the adjusted premium.
The director:
1.When
considering a premium adjustment,Shall review the actuarial assumptions
used by the insurer to determine the adjusted premium, including whether the
proposed adjusted premium is reasonably adequate to cover the future costs of
services to be provided to the policyholders.In reviewing the soundness
of the actuarial assumptions used by the insurer to determine the premium
adjustment, the director May either:
(a)Use the services of an
independent actuary who is not affiliated with the insurer and who has
experience in longterm care insurance pricing.
(b)Accept a review that was
completed for another state if the review is for the same or substantially the
same policy form or where any differences in benefits and premiums are not
material and if the review has been completed within eighteen months after the
premium adjustment request was filed pursuant to this section.
2.After
reviewing the request for the premium adjustment, may do any of the following:
(a)Approve a single increase of the
premium amount requested by the insurer if the insurer agrees to forego future
increases for a period of three years after the date that the new premium
increase is effective.
(b)Approve a series of scheduled
premium increases that are actuarially equivalent to the amount requested by
the insurer over the lifetime of the policy.
(c)Decline to approve any premium
increase if the actuarial assumptions used by the insurer are found to be
inadequate as a result of the independent actuary's findings or inconsistent
with the department's rate review standards.
3.May
require the insurer to limit any premium increase consistent with the lossratio
standards established by the department.The department may use
different lossratio standards for current policies than are used for
prospective policies.
C.D.If
the director disapproves a rate or form, the director shall send the insurer a
written notice specifying the reason for disapproval. The insurer may request
a hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 to contest the
disapproval. It is unlawful for the insurer to issue or use a rate or form
that has been disapproved.
D.e.At
any time after notice and for cause shown, the director may issue an order
withdrawing approval of any form or rate for any reason listed in subsection B of this section.The
insurer may request a hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 to
contest the director's order.
E.F.An
insurer shall not issue or use a rate or form after the effective date of an
order withdrawing approval.
F.G.The
director, by order, may exempt from the requirements of this section for as
long as the director deems proper any insurance rate or form specified in the
order, to which, in the director's opinion, this section may not practicably be
applied or the filing and approval of which are, in the director's opinion, not
desirable or necessary for the protection of the public. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 20, chapter 6, article 15,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 20-1691.13, to read:
START_STATUTE20-1691.13.Notification; premium increases; change of benefits
An insurer shall notify
its policyholders of any premium increase approved pursuant to section 201691.08
or any change in benefits.The premium increase notification shall
be filed with the department and shall contain all of the following:
1.The
amount of the premium increase.
2.The
implementation schedule of the premium increase.
3.Any
benefit reduction or premium increase mitigation options that are available to
the policyholder.
4.Clear
disclosure that specifies the renewable nature of the policy and that premiums
are subject to future increases.
5.An offer
of any contingent benefit to the policyholder if the current policy lapses. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Rulemaking exemption
For the purposes of implementing this act, the department of
insurance is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.

