







REFERENCE TITLE: office of Indian education; assistance







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1451









Introduced by
Senator
  Begay





AN ACT

amending section
15244, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the department of
education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-244, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-244.Office of Indian education; duties; reports; rules;
definition
A.The office of Indian education is established in
the department of education. The superintendent of public instruction shall
hire appropriate personnel for the office.
B.The office of Indian education shall:
1.In collaboration with Indian nations, provide
technical assistance to schools and Indian nations to meet the educational
needs of Native American
pupils. If sufficient resources and
funding are available for these purposes, the technical assistance shall
include the following:
(a)Professional development.
(b)Data literacy.
(c)Teacher recruitment and
retention.
(d)Native language development.
(e)Fiscal management, including The
most efficient use of available monies.
(f)Family engagement.
(g)The incorporation of Native
American culture into the curricula. 
2.Provide technical assistance to schools and
Indian nations in the planning, development, implementation and evaluation of
curricula that are culturally relevant and aligned to state standards.
3.Provide technical assistance to schools and
Indian nations to develop culturally appropriate curricula and instructional
materials.
4.Establish an Indian education advisory council in
the department of education that shall include at least parents who are not
certificated teachers.
5.Encourage and foster parental involvement in the
education of Native
American pupils.
C.At least once each year, representatives from all
Indian nations, members of the state board of education, the governor's office, the
Arizona commission of Indian affairs, the intertribal inter
tribal council of Arizona, the legislature, the superintendent of
public instruction and the Indian education advisory council shall meet to
assist in evaluating, consolidating and coordinating all activities relating to
the education of Native
American pupils.
D.Based on data submitted pursuant to subsection E of this section, the office of
Indian education, in collaboration with entities that serve Native American pupils, shall submit an annual
statewide native American
education status report to all Indian nations in this state. The division
shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state and the director of the Arizona state library, archives and
public records.
E.A school district with tribal lands located
within its boundaries shall provide a district-wide native American education status report to all
Indian nations represented within the school district boundaries and to the
department of education.
F.The status reports prescribed in subsections D
and E of this section shall
be written in a brief format and shall include the following information,
through which public school performance is measured and reported to the Indian
nations:
1.Student achievement as measured by a statewide
test approved by the state board of
education, with results disaggregated by ethnicity.
2.School safety.
3.The dropout rate.
4.Attendance.
5.Parent and community involvement.
6.Educational programs that target Native American pupils.
7.Financial reports.
8.The current status of federal Indian education
policies and procedures.
9.School district initiatives to decrease the
number of student dropouts and increase attendance.
10.Public school use of variable school calendars.
11.School district consultations with parent
advisory committees.
G.The state board of education, in consultation
with the Indian nations in this state, may adopt rules to implement this
section.
H.For the purposes of this section, "Indian
nations" means an Indian nation, tribe or pueblo located in this state. END_STATUTE

