







REFERENCE TITLE: water banking authority; report







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1400









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

amending section
45-2426, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona water banking
authority.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 45-2426, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-2426.Annual report
A.The commission shall make and submit to the
governor, president of the senate and speaker of the house of representatives
on or before July March 1 of each year a report
containing a full and complete account of its transactions and proceedings for
the preceding calendar year.
B.The report shall contain all of the following:
1.An accounting of all monies expended from the
banking fund.
2.An accounting of all monies in the banking fund
remaining available to the authority.
3.The amount of water stored by the authority.
4.The number of long-term storage credits
distributed or extinguished by the authority.
5.The purposes for which long-term storage credits
were distributed or extinguished by the authority.
6.A description of the water banking services and
interstate water banking to be undertaken by the authority during the following
ten year period, and a projection of the capacity of the authority during that
period to undertake those activities in addition to storing Colorado river
water brought into the state through the central Arizona project for all of the
following purposes:
(a)Protecting this state's municipal and industrial
water users against future water shortages on the Colorado river and disruptions
of operation of the central Arizona project.
(b)Fulfilling the water management objectives of
this state as set forth in chapter 2 of this title.
(c)Making water available to implement the
settlement of water rights claims by Indian communities within this state.
7.Any other matter determined by the authority to
be relevant to the policy and purposes of this chapter.END_STATUTE

