







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; achievement profiles;
  improvement plans








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1430









Introduced by
Senator
  Allen S; Representative Boyer





AN ACT

amending sections
15-211 and 15241, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15, chapter
2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15241.02;
amending sections 15704, 15-901.06 and 15973.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to school accountability.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-211, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-211.K-3 reading program; receipt and use of monies; additional
funding; program termination
A.The state board of education, in collaboration
with the department of education, shall establish a K3 reading program
to improve the reading proficiency of pupils in kindergarten programs and
grades one, two and three in the public schools of this state.
B.On or before October 1, 2012, each school
district and charter school shall submit to the state board of education a plan
for improving the reading proficiency of its pupils in kindergarten programs
and grades one, two and three.The plan shall include baseline data
on the reading proficiency of its pupils in kindergarten programs and grades
one, two and three and a budget for spending monies from both the K3
support level weight and the K3 reading support level weight established
in section 15943. Beginning in fiscal year 20132014 and each
fiscal year thereafter, each school district and charter school shall submit to
the state board of education on or before October 1 an updated K3
reading program plan that includes data on program expenditures and results.
C.School districts and charter schools shall use
monies generated by the K3 reading support level weight established in
section 15943 only on reading programs for pupils in kindergarten
programs and grades one, two and three with particular emphasis on pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one and two.
D.Each school district and charter school that is
assigned a letter grade of C, D or F pursuant to section 15241, subsection H or that has more
than ten per cent percent of its pupils in grade
three reading far below the third grade level according to the reading portion
of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, shall
receive monies generated by the K3 reading support level weight
established in section 15943 only after the K3 reading program
plan of the school district or charter school has been approved by the state
board of education.
E.Pupils in a charter school that is in its first
year of operation and that is sponsored by the state board of education, the
state board for charter schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents, a community college district or a group of community
college districts are eligible for the K-3 reading support level weight.
F.The department of education shall solicit gifts,
grants and donations from any lawful public or private source in order to
provide additional funding for the K3 reading program.
G.The program established by this section ends on
July 1, 2022 pursuant to section 413102.
Sec.2.Section
15-241, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-241.School, charter school and school district accountability;
annual achievement profiles; classification; letter grade system; profiles;
appeals process; failing schools tutoring fund; definition
A.The department of education shall compile an
annual achievement profile for each public school, charter holder and school district.
B.Each school, charter holder and school district shall submit to the
department any data that is required and requested and that is necessary to
compile the achievement profile. A school, charter holder or school district that fails
to submit the information that is necessary is not eligible to receive monies
from the classroom site fund established by section 15977.
C.The
department shall establish a baseline achievement profile for each school and
school district. The baseline achievement profile The annual achievement profile compiled by
the department shall be used to determine a standard measurement
of acceptable academic progress for each school, charter holder and school district and a
school, charter holder
and school district classification pursuant to subsection H F
of this section.Any disclosure of educational records
compiled by the department of education pursuant to this section shall comply
with the family educational rights and privacy act of 1974 (20 United States
Code section 1232g).
D.The
achievement profile for schools and school districts that offer instruction in
kindergarten programs and grades one through eight, or any combination of those
programs or grades, shall include the following school academic performance
indicators:
1.The Arizona
measure of academic progress.The department shall compute the
extent of academic progress made by the pupils in each school and school
district during the course of each year.
2.The Arizona
instrument to measure standards test. The department shall compute the
percentage of pupils who meet or exceed the standard on the Arizona instrument
to measure standards test, as prescribed by the state board of
education.The superintendent of public instruction and the
department may calculate academic gain on the Arizona instrument to measure
standards test according to each of the school classifications prescribed in
subsection G of this section on a statewide basis, for each school district in this
state and for each school by determining the average scale scores for students
in the current academic year as compared to the average scale scores for the
previous academic year for the same students.
3.Academic
performance and academic gain on the science portion of the Arizona instrument
to measure standards test.
4.The results
of English language learners tests administered pursuant to section 15756,
subsection B, section 15756.05 and section 15756.06.
E.The
achievement profile for schools and school districts that offer instruction in
grades nine through twelve, or any combination of those grades, shall include
the following school academic performance indicators:
1.The Arizona
measure of academic progress.The department shall compute the
extent of academic progress made by the pupils at each school.
2.The Arizona
instrument to measure standards test.The department shall compute
the percentage of pupils pursuant to subsection G of this section who meet or
exceed the standard on the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, as
prescribed by the state board of education.The superintendent of
public instruction and the department may calculate academic gain on the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test according to each of the school
classifications prescribed in subsection G of this section on a statewide
basis, for each school district in this state and for each school by
determining the average scale scores for students in the current academic year
as compared to the average scale scores for the previous academic year for the
same students.
3.Academic
performance and academic gain on the science portion of the Arizona instrument
to measure standards test.
4.The annual
dropout rate.
5.The annual
graduation rate.
6.The results
of English language learners tests administered pursuant to section 15756,
subsection B, section 15756.05 and section 15756.06.
F.Schools and
school districts that offer instruction in all or a combination of the grades
specified in subsections D and E of this section shall include a single
achievement profile for that school and school district that includes the
school academic performance indicators specified in subsections D and E of this
section.
D.The
annual achievement profile for schools, charter holders and school districts
shall include, at a minimum, the following academic performance indicators:
1.Multiple
measures of academic performance or other academically relevant indicators of
school quality that are appropriate to assess the educational impact of a
school during the academic year as determined by the state board of education.
2.Academic
progress on statewide assessments adopted pursuant to section 15-741 in English
language arts and mathematics.
3.academic
progress on the english language learner assessments administered pursuant to
section 15-756, subsection b and sections 15-756.05 and 15-756.06.
4.Progress
toward college and career readiness for all schools, charter holders and school
districts that offer instruction in any of grades nine through twelve.
G.E.Subject to final adoption by the
state board of education, the department shall determine the criteria for each
school and school district classification label using a research based researched-based methodology. The
methodology developed in collaboration
with a coalition of qualified technical and policy stakeholders, at a minimum,
shall include the performance of pupils at all achievement levels, account for
pupil mobility, account for the distribution of pupil achievement at each
school, charter school
and school district and include longitudinal indicators of academic
performance.The methodology
may include a measure of the perception of educational quality at the school or
school district by parents, pupils, staff and community stakeholders. Fifty
per cent of the school and school district classification determination shall
consist of academic performance measurements.Fifty per cent of the
academic performance measurement shall consist of a measurement of academic
gain for all pupils enrolled at the school or school district and fifty per
cent of the academic performance measurements shall consist of a measurement of
the twenty-five per cent of pupils with the lowest academic performance
measurement enrolled at the school or school district.For
the purposes of this subsection, "research
based researchedbased
methodology" means the systematic and objective application of statistical
and quantitative research principles to determine
a standard measurement of acceptable academic progress for each school and
school district calculate
the indicators used to determine A through F letter grades.
H.F.Except as provided in subsection EE of this section,
The annual achievement profile shall be used to
determine a school, charter holder
and school district classification that
uses a based on an A
through F letter grade system as follows:
1.A school or
school district assigned a letter grade of A shall demonstrate an excellent
level of performance.
2.A school or
school district assigned a letter grade of B shall demonstrate an above average
level of performance.
3.A school or
school district assigned a letter grade of C shall demonstrate an average level
of performance.
4.A school or
school district assigned a letter grade of D shall demonstrate a below average
level of performance.
5.A school or
school district assigned a letter grade of F shall demonstrate a failing level
of performance. adopted
by the state board of education In which a letter grade of A reflects an
excellent level of performance and a letter grade of F reflects a failing level
of performance. The a through f letter grade system shall indicate expected
standards of performance for all schools and the manner in which schools may rise
above or fall below those expected standards of performance. The
state board of education may also assign a school a letter grade of F if the
state board of education determines that the school is among the
"persistently lowest-achieving schools" in the state under the
federal school accountability requirements pursuant to section 1003(g) of the
elementary and secondary education act (20 United States Code section 6303).
I.G.The
classification for each school and the criteria used to determine classification
pursuant to subsection G subsections E and F of this
section shall be included on the school report card prescribed in section 15746.
J.H.Subject to final
adoption by the state board of education, the department of education shall develop a parallel achievement profile for
use achievement profiles appropriately
to assess the educational impact of accommodation schools,
alternative schools as defined by the
state board of education and extremely small schools, may develop profiles for schools that participate in the board
examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6 of this title and schools
that participate in Arizona online instruction pursuant to section 15808
and may develop other exceptions as defined
prescribed by the state board of education for the purposes of
this section.
K.If a school
is assigned a letter grade of D, within ninety days after receiving notice of
the designation, the governing board shall develop an improvement plan for the
school, submit a copy of the plan to the superintendent of public instruction
and the county educational service agency and supervise the implementation of
the plan.The plan shall include necessary components as identified
by the state board of education.Within thirty days after submitting
the improvement plan to the superintendent of public instruction and the county
educational service agency, the governing board shall hold a special public
meeting in each school that has been assigned a letter grade of D and shall
present the respective improvement plans that have been developed for each
school.The school district governing board, within thirty days of
receiving notice of the designation, shall provide written notification of the
classification to each residence within the attendance area of the
school.The notice shall explain the improvement plan process and
provide information regarding the public meeting required by this subsection.
L.A school
that has not submitted an improvement plan pursuant to subsection K of this
section is not eligible to receive monies from the classroom site fund
established by section 15977 for every day that a plan has not been
received by the superintendent of public instruction within the time specified
in subsection K of this section plus an additional ninety days.The
state board of education shall require the superintendent of the school
district to testify before the board and explain the reasons that an
improvement plan for that school has not been submitted.
M.If a
charter school is assigned a letter grade of D, within thirty days the school
shall notify the parents of the students attending the school of the
classification.The notice shall explain the improvement plan
process and provide information regarding the public meeting required by this
subsection.Within ninety days of receiving the classification, the
charter holder shall present an improvement plan to the charter sponsor at a
public meeting and submit a copy of the plan to the superintendent of public
instruction.The improvement plan shall include necessary components
as identified by the state board of education.For every day that an
improvement plan is not received by the superintendent of public instruction
and the county educational service agency, the school is not eligible to
receive monies from the classroom site fund established by section 15977
for every day that a plan has not been received by the superintendent of public
instruction within the time specified in subsection K of this section plus an
additional ninety days.The charter holder shall appear before the
sponsoring board and explain why the improvement plan has not been submitted.
N.The
department of education shall establish an appeals process, to be approved by
the state board of education, for a school to appeal data used to determine the
achievement profile of the school. The criteria established shall be based on
mitigating factors and may include a visit to the school site by the department
of education.
O.If a school
is assigned a letter grade of D for a third consecutive year, the department of
education shall visit the school site to confirm the classification data and to
review the implementation of the school's improvement plan. The school shall
be assigned a letter grade of F unless an alternate letter grade is assigned
after an appeal pursuant to subsection N of this section. A school that is
assigned a letter grade of D for less than three consecutive years may also be
assigned a letter grade of F if the state board of education determines that
there is no reasonable likelihood that the school will achieve an average level
of performance within the next two years.
P.The school
district governing board, within thirty days of receiving notice of the school
being assigned a letter grade of F, shall provide written notification of the
classification to each residence in the attendance area of the
school.The notice shall explain the improvement plan process and
provide information regarding the public meeting required by subsection S of
this section.
Q.The
superintendent of public instruction in collaboration with the county
educational service agency, based on need, shall assign a solutions team to a
school assigned a letter grade of D, a school assigned a letter grade of F or
any other school pursuant to a mutual agreement between the department of
education and the school composed of master teachers, fiscal analysts and
curriculum assessment experts who are certified by the state board of education
as Arizona academic standards technicians.The department of
education or the county educational service agency may hire or contract with
administrators, principals and teachers who have demonstrated experience with
the characteristics and situations in a school assigned a letter grade of D or
F and may use these personnel as part of the solutions team.The
department of education shall work with staff at the school to assist in
curricula alignment and shall instruct teachers on how to increase pupil
academic progress, considering the school's achievement profile.The
solutions team shall consider the existing improvement plan to assess the need
for changes to curriculum, professional development and resource allocation and
shall present a statement of its findings to the school administrator and
district superintendent.Within fortyfive days after the
presentation of the solutions team's statement of findings, the school district
governing board, in cooperation with each school within the school district
that is assigned a letter grade of D and its assigned solutions team
representative, shall develop and submit to the department of education and the
county educational service agency an action plan that details the manner in
which the school district will assist the school as the school incorporates the
findings of the solutions team into the improvement plan. The department of
education shall review the action plan and shall either accept the action plan
or return the action plan to the school district for
modification.If the school district does not submit an approved
action plan within fortyfive days, the state board of education may
direct the superintendent of public instruction to withhold up to ten per cent
of state monies that the school district would otherwise be entitled to receive
each month until the plan is submitted to the department of education and the
county educational service agency, at which time those monies shall be returned
to the school district.
R.The parent
or the guardian of the pupil may apply to the department of education, in a
manner determined by the department of education, for a certificate of
supplemental instruction from the failing schools tutoring fund established by
this section. Pupils attending a school assigned a letter grade of D or F or a
pupil who has failed to pass one or more portions of the Arizona instrument to
measure standards test in grades eight through twelve in order to graduate from
high school may select an alternative tutoring program in academic standards
from a provider that is certified by the state board of education. To qualify,
the provider must state in writing a level of academic improvement for the
pupil that includes a timeline for improvement that is agreed to by the parent
or guardian of the pupil.The state board of education shall
annually review academic performance levels for providers certified pursuant to
this subsection and may remove a provider at a public hearing from an approved
list of providers if that provider fails to meet its stated level of academic
improvement.The state board of education shall determine the
application guidelines and the maximum value for each certificate of
supplemental instruction.The state board of education shall
annually complete a market survey in order to determine the maximum value for
each certificate of supplemental instruction.This subsection shall
not be construed to require the state to provide additional monies beyond the
monies provided pursuant to section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 7.
S.Within
sixty days of receiving notification of a school being assigned a letter grade
of F, the school district governing board shall evaluate needed changes to the
existing improvement plan for the school, consider recommendations from the
solutions team, submit a copy of the plan to the superintendent of public
instruction and the county educational service agency and supervise the
implementation of the plan.Within thirty days after submitting the
improvement plan to the superintendent of public instruction, the governing
board shall hold a public meeting in each school that has been assigned a
letter grade of F and shall present the respective improvement plans that have
been developed for each school.
T.A school
that has not submitted an improvement plan pursuant to subsection S of this
section is not eligible to receive monies from the classroom site fund
established by section 15977 for every day that a plan has not been
received by the superintendent of public instruction within the time specified
in subsection S of this section plus an additional ninety days. The state
board of education shall require the superintendent of the school district to
testify before the board and explain the reasons that an improvement plan for
that school has not been submitted.
U.If a charter
school is assigned a letter grade of F, the department of education shall
immediately notify the charter school's sponsor.The charter
school's sponsor shall either take action to restore the charter school to
acceptable performance or revoke the charter school's charter. Within thirty
days the school shall notify the parents of the students attending the school
of the classification and of any pending public meetings to review the issue.
V.A school
that has been assigned a letter grade of F shall be evaluated by the department
of education to determine if the school failed to properly implement its school
improvement plan, align the curriculum with academic standards, provide teacher
training, prioritize the budget or implement other proven strategies to improve
academic performance. After visiting the school site pursuant to subsection O
of this section, the department of education shall submit to the state board of
education a recommendation to proceed pursuant to subsections Q, R and S of
this section or that the school be subject to a public hearing to determine if
the school failed to properly implement its improvement plan and the reasons
for the department's recommendation.
W.If the
department does recommend a public hearing, the state board of education shall
meet and may provide by a majority vote at the public hearing for the continued
operation of the school as allowed by this subsection.The state
board of education shall determine whether governmental, nonprofit and private
organizations may submit applications to the state board to fully or partially
manage the school. The state board's determination shall include:
1.If and to
what extent the local governing board may participate in the operation of the
school including personnel matters.
2.If and to
what extent the state board of education shall participate in the operation of
the school.
3.Resource
allocation pursuant to subsection Y of this section.
4.Provisions
for the development and submittal of a school improvement plan to be presented
in a public meeting at the school.
5.A suggested
time frame for the alternative operation of the school.
X.The state
board shall periodically review the status of a school that is operated by an
organization other than the school district governing board to determine
whether the operation of the school should be returned to the school district
governing board.Before the state board makes a determination, the
state board or its designee shall meet with the school district governing board
or its designee to determine the time frame, operational considerations and the
appropriate continuation of existing improvements that are necessary to assure
a smooth transition of authority from the other organization back to the school
district governing board.
Y.If an
alternative operation plan is provided pursuant to subsection W of this
section, the state board of education shall pay for the operation of the school
and shall adjust the school district's district additional assistance pursuant
to section 15961, base support level pursuant to section 15943,
monies distributed from the classroom site fund established by section 15977
and transportation support level pursuant to section 15945 to accurately
reflect any reduction in district services that are no longer provided to that
school by the district.The state board of education may modify the
school district's revenue control limit, the district support level and the
general budget limit calculated pursuant to section 15947 by an amount that
corresponds to this reduction in services. The state board of education shall
retain the portion of state aid that would otherwise be due the school district
for the school and shall distribute that portion of state aid directly to the
organization that contracts with the state board of education to operate the
school.
Z.If the
state board of education determines that a charter school failed to properly
implement its improvement plan, the sponsor of the charter school shall revoke
the charter school's charter.
AA.If there
are more than two schools in a district and more than onehalf, or in any
case more than five, of the schools in the district are assigned a letter grade
of F for more than two consecutive years, in the next election of members of the
governing board the election ballot shall contain the following statement
immediately above the listing of governing board candidates:
Within the last five
years, (number of schools) schools in the ________ school district have been
assigned a letter grade of F or designated as "schools failing to meet
academic standards" by the superintendent of public instruction.
BB.At least
twice each year the department of education shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in each county of this state a list of schools that are
assigned a letter grade of F.
I.The department of education
shall establish a process for a school to correct student data used to
determine the school's annual achievement profile. The state board of
education shall establish an appeals process to allow a school to appeal the
school's final letter grade based on mitigating factors identified by the
board. The board may delegate the administration of the appeals process to the
department of education.
CC.J.The failing schools
tutoring fund is established consisting of monies collected pursuant to section
425029, subsection E as designated for this purpose. The department of
education shall administer the fund.The department of education may
use monies from the fund to purchase materials designed to assist students to
meet the Arizona academic standards and to achieve a passing score on the Arizona instrument to measure standards
test in order to graduate from high school assessments adopted by the state board of education.
DD.The
department of education may develop a classification label for school districts
and charter school operators.If the department of education
develops a classification label for school districts and charter school
operators, the classification label may be developed from the following
components:
1.Measures of
academic progress.
2.Pupil
assessment data.
3.The
attendance rates and graduation rates of pupils who are educated in that
charter school operator's charter schools or in that school district's schools.
4.The
percentage of the parents of pupils enrolled in that charter school operator's
charter schools or in that school district's schools that categorizes the
quality of their child's education as excellent on a parental rating of school
quality.
EE.The state
board of education shall determine appropriate modifications to the criteria
used to calculate achievement profiles for schools that participate in the
board examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6 of this title.
FF.The state
board of education shall adopt guidelines to include supplementary training in
reading instruction for teachers who provide instruction to pupils in a
kindergarten program or grade one, two or three in an improvement plan pursuant
to subsection K of this section.
GG.In
addition to any other corrective procedures prescribed in this section and
section 15241.01, a school that has been assigned a letter grade of D or
F for two consecutive years shall implement a science, technology, engineering
and mathematics intervention strategy under the supervision of the state board
of education.
HH.In
addition to any other corrective procedures prescribed in this section a school
district that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F for two consecutive
years shall implement a parent involvement strategy.The parent
involvement strategy shall be included in the school improvement plan for each
applicable school within the district, as prescribed in subsection K of this
section.
II.The
department of education shall publish criteria for a school or school
district's exit status from a previous assignment of a letter grade of F in
accordance with this section. The criteria shall prescribe the actions and
results necessary to be deemed to have complied with this section regarding
school improvement, including the proper implementation of a school improvement
plan pursuant to subsection V of this section. These criteria shall be
provided to a school or school district if it is assigned a letter grade of F
pursuant to this section.
K.For the purposes of this section,
"academic progress" means measures of both proficiency and academic
gain. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 15, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-241.02, to read:
START_STATUTE15-241.02.School improvement plans; solutions teams; withholding of
state monies
A.If a
school is assigned a letter grade of D PURSUANT to section 15241, within
ninety days after receiving notice of the classification, the school district
governing board shall develop an improvement plan for the school, submit a copy
of the plan to the superintendent of public instruction and the county
educational service agency and supervise the implementation of the plan. The
governing board shall include in the plan necessary components as identified by
the state board of education. Within thirty days after submitting the
improvement plan to the superintendent of public instruction and the county
educational service agency, the governing board shall hold a public meeting in
each school that has been assigned a letter grade of D and shall present the
respective improvement plans that have been developed for each school. The
governing board, within thirty days after receiving notice of the
classification, shall provide written notification of the classification to
each residence within the attendance area of the school. The notice shall
explain the improvement plan process and provide information regarding the
public meeting required by this subsection.
B.A school
that has not submitted an improvement plan pursuant to subsection A of this
section is not eligible to receive monies from the classroom site fund
established by section 15977 for every day that a plan has not been
received by the superintendent of public instruction within the time specified
in subsection A of this section plus an additional ninety days. The state
board of education shall require the superintendent of the school district to
testify before the board and explain the reasons that an improvement plan for
that school has not been submitted.
C.If a
charter school is assigned a letter grade of D pursuant to section 15241,
within thirty days the school shall notify the parents of the students
attending the school of the classification.The notice shall explain
the improvement plan process and provide information regarding the public
meeting required by this subsection.Within ninety days after
receiving the classification, the charter holder shall present an improvement
plan to the charter sponsor at a public meeting and submit a copy of the plan
to the sponsor of the charter school. The charter holder shall include in the improvement
plan necessary components as identified by the state board of education. The
school is not eligible to receive monies from the classroom site fund
established by section 15977 for every day that an improvement plan has
not been received by the sponsor of the charter school within the time
specified in this subsection plus an additional ninety days.The
charter holder shall appear before the sponsoring board and explain why the
improvement plan has not been submitted.
D.If a
school is assigned a letter grade of D pursuant to section 15241 for a
third consecutive year, the department of education shall visit the school site
to confirm the classification data and to review the implementation of the
school's improvement plan.The school shall be assigned a letter
grade of F unless an alternate letter grade is assigned after an appeal
pursuant to section 15241, subsection I. A school that is assigned a
letter grade of D for fewer than three consecutive years may also be assigned a
letter grade of F if the state board of education determines that there is no
reasonable likelihood that the school will achieve an average level of
performance within the next two years.
E.The
superintendent of public instruction and the county educational service agency
shall collaborate to assign a solutions team to a school assigned a letter
grade of D pursuant to section 15241 or a school assigned a letter grade
of F pursuant to section 15241 based on academic need and available
resources.County educational service agencies may enter into
agreements to provide services to schools from other counties. Any other
school, subject to available resources, may be assigned a solutions team
pursuant to a mutual agreement between the department of education or the county
education service agency, or both, and the school. The solutions team shall be
composed of master teachers, fiscal analysts and curriculum assessment experts
who are certified by the state board of education as Arizona academic standards
technicians. The department of education or the county educational service
agency may hire or contract with administrators, principals and teachers who
have demonstrated experience in improving academic outcomes and may use these
personnel as part of the solutions team. The department of education shall work
with staff at the school to assist in curricula alignment and shall instruct
teachers on how to increase pupil academic progress, considering the school's
annual achievement profile. The solutions team shall consider the existing
improvement plan to assess the need for changes to curricula, professional
development and resource allocation and shall present a statement of its
findings to the school administrator and district superintendent. Within
forty-five days after the presentation of the solutions team's statement of
findings, the school district governing board, in cooperation with each school
within the school district that is assigned a letter grade of D and its
assigned solutions team representative, shall develop and submit to the
department of education and the county educational service agency an action
plan that details the manner in which the school district will assist the
school as the school incorporates the findings of the solutions team into the improvement
plan. The department of education shall review the action plan and shall
either accept the action plan or return the action plan to the school district
for modification. If the school district does not submit an approved action
plan within forty-five days, the state board of education may direct the
superintendent of public instruction to withhold up to ten percent of state
monies that the school district would otherwise be entitled to receive each
month until the plan is submitted to the department of education and the county
educational service agency, at which time those monies shall be returned to the
school district.
F.The
parent or guardian of a pupil may apply to the department of education, in a
manner determined by the department of education, for a certificate of
supplemental instruction from the failing schools tutoring fund established by
section 15241. Pupils attending a school assigned a letter grade of D
or F may select an alternative tutoring program in academic standards from a
provider that is certified by the state board of education. To qualify, the
provider must state in writing a level of academic improvement for the pupil
that includes a timeline for improvement that is agreed to by the parent or
guardian of the pupil.The state board of education shall annually
review academic performance levels for certified providers and may remove a
provider at a public hearing from an approved list of providers if that
provider fails to meet its stated level of academic improvement. The state
board of education shall determine the application guidelines and the maximum
value for each certificate of supplemental instruction. The state board of
education shall annually complete a market survey in order to determine the
maximum value for each certificate of supplemental instruction. This
subsection does not require this state to provide additional monies beyond the
monies provided pursuant to section 425029, subsection E, paragraph 7.
G.Within
sixty days after receiving notification of a school being assigned a letter
grade of F pursuant to section 15241, the school district governing
board shall evaluate needed changes to the existing school improvement plan,
consider recommendations from the solutions team, submit a copy of the plan to
the superintendent of public instruction and the county educational service
agency and supervise the implementation of the plan. Within thirty days after
submitting the improvement plan to the superintendent of public instruction and
the county educational service agency, the governing board shall hold a public
meeting in each school that has been assigned a letter grade of F and shall
present the respective improvement plans that have been developed for each
school. The governing board, within thirty days after receiving notice of the
classification, shall provide written notification of the classification to
each residence in the attendance area of the school. The notice shall explain
the improvement plan process and provide information regarding the public
meeting required by this subsection.
H.A school
that has not submitted an improvement plan pursuant to subsection G of this
section is not eligible to receive monies from the classroom site fund
established by section 15977 for every day that a plan has not been
received by the superintendent of public instruction within the time specified
in subsection G of this section plus an additional ninety days. The state
board of education shall require the superintendent of the school district to testify
before the board and explain the reasons that an improvement plan for that
school has not been submitted.
I.If a
charter school is assigned a letter grade of F pursuant to section 15241,
the department of education shall immediately notify the charter school's
sponsor.The charter school's sponsor shall either take action to
restore the charter school to acceptable performance or revoke the charter
school's charter.Within thirty days, the charter school shall
notify the parents of the students attending the school of the classification
and of any pending public meetings to review the issue.
J.The
department of education shall evaluate a school that has been assigned a letter
grade of F pursuant to section 15241 to determine whether the school, charter
holder or school district failed to properly implement its school improvement
plan, align the curricula with academic standards, provide teacher training,
prioritize the budget or implement other proven strategies to improve academic
performance. After visiting the school site pursuant to subsection D of this
section, the department of education shall submit to the state board of
education a recommendation either to proceed pursuant to subsections E, F and G
of this section or that the school be subject to a public hearing to determine
whether the school failed to properly implement its improvement plan and the
reasons for the department's recommendation. If the school is a charter
school, the department shall submit a report to the sponsor of the charter
school. The sponsor shall make a determination pursuant to subsection N of
this section.
K.If the
department recommends a public hearing, the state board of education shall meet
and may provide by a majority vote at the public hearing for the continued
operation of the school as allowed by this subsection. The state board of
education shall determine whether governmental, nonprofit and private
organizations may submit applications to the state board to fully or partially
manage the school. The state board's determination shall include:
1.If and to
what extent the local governing board may participate in the operation of the
school, including personnel matters.
2.If and to
what extent the state board will participate in the operation of the school.
3.Resource
allocation pursuant to subsection M of this section.
4.Provisions
for the development and submittal of a school improvement plan to be presented
in a public meeting at the school.
5.A
suggested time frame for the alternative operation of the school.
L.The state
board of education shall periodically review the status of a school that is
operated by an organization other than the school district governing board to
determine whether the operation of the school should be returned to the school
district governing board. Before the state board makes a determination, the
state board or its designee shall meet with the school district governing board
or its designee to determine the time frame, operational considerations and
appropriate continuation of existing improvements that are necessary to ensure
a smooth transition of authority from the other organization back to the school
district governing board.
M.If an
alternative operation plan is provided pursuant to subsection L of this section,
the state board of education shall pay for the operation of the school and
shall adjust the school district's district additional assistance pursuant to
section 15-961, base support level pursuant to section 15943, monies
distributed from the classroom site fund established by section 15977
and transportation support level pursuant to section 15945 to accurately
reflect any reduction in district services that are no longer provided to that
school by the district. The state board may modify the school district's
revenue control limit, the district support level and the general budget limit
calculated pursuant to section 15947 by an amount that corresponds to
this reduction in services. The state board shall retain the portion of state
aid that would otherwise be due the school district for the school and shall
distribute that portion of state aid directly to the organization that
contracts with the state board to operate the school.
N.If the
sponsor of a charter school determines that a charter holder failed to properly
implement its improvement plan, the sponsor of the charter school shall revoke
the charter school's charter.
O.If there
are more than two schools in a district and more than onehalf, or in any
case more than five, of the schools in the district are assigned a letter grade
of F pursuant to section 15241 for more than two consecutive years, in
the next election of governing board members the election ballot shall contain
the following statement immediately above the listing of governing board
candidates:
Within the last five
years, (number of schools) schools in the ________ school district have
been assigned a letter grade of D or F.
P.At least
twice each year the department of education shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in each county of this state a list of schools that are
assigned a letter grade of F pursuant to section 15241.
Q.The state
board of education shall adopt guidelines to include supplementary training in
reading instruction for teachers who provide instruction to pupils in a
kindergarten program or grade one, two or three in an improvement plan pursuant
to subsection A of this section.
R.In
addition to any other corrective procedures prescribed in this section and
sections 15-241 and 15241.01, a school that has been assigned a letter
grade of D or F for two consecutive years shall implement a science,
technology, engineering and mathematics intervention strategy under the
supervision of the state board of education.
S.In
addition to any other corrective procedures prescribed in this section, a
school district that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to
section 15241 for two consecutive years shall implement a parent
involvement strategy. The parent involvement strategy shall be included in the
school improvement plan for each applicable school within the district, as
prescribed in subsection A or G of this section, as applicable.
T.The
department of education shall publish criteria for a school's or school
district's exit status from a previous assignment of a letter grade of F in
accordance with this section. The criteria shall prescribe the actions and
results necessary to be deemed to have complied with this section regarding
school improvement, including the proper implementation of a school improvement
plan pursuant to subsection J of this section. These criteria shall be
provided to a school or school district if it is assigned a letter grade of F
pursuant to section 15241.
Sec.4.Section 15-704, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-704.Reading proficiency; definitions
A.Each school district or charter school that
provides instruction in kindergarten programs and grades one through three
shall select and administer screening, ongoing diagnostic and classroom based
instructional reading assessments, including a motivational assessment, as
defined by the state board of education, to monitor student progress. Each
school shall use the diagnostic information to plan appropriate and effective
intervention.
B.Each school district or charter school that
provides instruction for pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one through
three shall conduct a curriculum evaluation and adopt a scientifically based
reading curriculum that includes the essential components of reading
instruction. All school districts and charter schools that offer instruction
in kindergarten programs and grades one through three shall provide ongoing
teacher training based on scientifically based reading research.
C.Each school district or charter school that
provides instruction in kindergarten programs and grades one through three
shall devote reasonable amounts of time to explicit instruction and independent
reading in grades one through three.
D.A pupil in grade three who does not meet or
exceed the reading standards measured by the Arizona instrument to measure
standards test administered pursuant to section 15741 shall be provided
intensive reading instruction as defined by the state board of education until
the pupil meets these standards.
E.The governing board of each school district and
the governing body of each charter school shall determine the percentage of
pupils at each school in grade three who do not meet the reading standards
prescribed by the state board of education and measured by the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test administered pursuant to section 15741.
If more than twenty per cent percent of students in grade
three at either the individual school level or at the school district level do
not meet the standards, the governing board or governing body shall conduct a
review of its reading program that includes curriculum and professional
development in light of current, scientifically based reading research.
F.Based on the review required in subsection E of
this section, the governing board or governing body and the school principal of
each school that does not meet the reading standards, in conjunction with
school council members, if applicable, shall develop methods of best practices
for teaching reading based on essential components of reading instruction and
supported by scientifically based reading research. These methods shall be
adopted at a public meeting and shall be implemented the following academic
year.
G.Subsections E and F of this section shall be
coordinated with efforts to develop and implement an improvement plan if
required pursuant to section 15241
15241.02.
H.For the purposes of this section:
1."Essential components of reading
instruction" means explicit and systematic instruction in the following:
(a)Phonemic awareness.
(b)Phonics.
(c)Vocabulary development.
(d)Reading fluency.
(e)Reading comprehension.
2."Reading" means a complex system of
deriving meaning from print that requires all of the following:
(a)The skills and knowledge to understand how
phonemes or speech sounds are connected to print.
(b)The ability to decode unfamiliar words.
(c)The ability to read fluently.
(d)Sufficient background information and vocabulary
to foster reading comprehension.
(e)The development of appropriate active strategies
to construct meaning from print.
(f)The development and maintenance of a motivation
to read.
3."Scientifically based reading research"
means research that meets all of the following:
(a)Applies rigorous, systematic and objective
procedures to obtain valid knowledge relevant to reading development, reading
instruction and reading difficulties.
(b)Employs systematic empirical methods that draw
on observation or experiment.
(c)Involves rigorous data analyses that are
adequate to test the stated hypotheses and justify the general conclusions
drawn.
(d)Relies on measurements or observational methods
that provide valid data across evaluators and observers and across multiple
measurements and observations.
(e)Has been accepted by a peer reviewed journal or
approved by a panel of independent experts through a comparably rigorous,
objective and scientific review.
(f)Contains all of the elements of the essential
components of reading instruction.
Sec.5.Section 15-901.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-901.06.Dropout recovery programs; written learning plan;
requirements; definitions
A.Each school district and charter school that
provides instruction to high school pupils may offer a dropout recovery program
for eligible pupils.
B.The state board of education shall prescribe
standards and achievement testing requirements for dropout recovery programs
that attempt to ensure that the programs are compatible with public school
education goals and requirements.The standards shall require
dropout recovery programs to do all of the following:
1.Provide curriculum
curricula aligned to the
academic standards adopted by the state board of education.The curriculum curricula may be delivered
online.A provider of Arizona online instruction pursuant to section
15808 may not also operate a dropout recovery program pursuant to this
section.
2.Provide standardized tests required by federal
and state law.
3.Make available appropriate and sufficient
supports for pupils, including tutoring, career counseling and college
counseling.
4.Comply with federal and state laws governing
pupils with disabilities.
5.Meet state requirements for high school
graduation.
C.Each eligible pupil who is enrolled in a dropout recovery program
shall have a written learning plan developed by the pupil's assigned mentor.
The written learning plan shall include the following elements:
1.The start date and anticipated end date of the
plan.
2.Courses to be completed by the pupil during the
academic year.
3.Whether courses will be taken sequentially or
concurrently.
4.State competency exams to be taken, as necessary.
5.Expectations for satisfactory monthly progress.
6.Expectations for contact with the pupil's
assigned mentor.
D.The monthly participation in a dropout recovery
program shall be recorded on or before the tenth school day of each month and
shall be reported to the department of education at the same time as other data
required pursuant to section 151042.Monthly participation
calculations shall include:
1.Newly enrolled pupils who have a written learning
plan on file on or before the first school day of the previous month.
2.Pupils who met the expectations for satisfactory
monthly progress in the previous month.
3.Pupils who did not meet the expectations for
satisfactory monthly progress in the previous month but did meet the
expectations in the month before the previous month.
4.Pupils who met expectations for program reentry
in the revised written learning plan in the previous month.
E.Because dropout recovery pupils are not expected
to regularly attend classes at the district facilities, standard procedures for
recording pupil attendance cannot be effectively applied to those students.
For pupils participating in a dropout recovery program, an eligible pupil shall
be counted as being in attendance in the school's average daily attendance
calculations pursuant to subsection F of this section if the pupil meets one of
the following conditions:
1.Is in the first month of enrollment in the
program and completes the program orientation during that month.
2.Is enrolled in teacher-facilitated courses and
meets the expectations for satisfactory monthly progress for the current or
previous month. A pupil who does not meet expectations for monthly progress
for two or more consecutive months shall not be reported as being in attendance
until the pupil meets the expectations for program reentry.
3.Meets the expectations for program reentry in the
revised written learning plan.
F.If a pupil is enrolled in a school district or
charter school other than the school district or charter school that
participates in the dropout recovery program and also participates in a dropout
recovery program in the same fiscal year, the average daily membership as
prescribed in section 15901, subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivisions (a)
and (b) for that pupil in the school district or charter school and in a
dropout recovery program shall not exceed 1.0, except that if the pupil is
enrolled in a dropout recovery program and a joint technical education
district, the average daily membership provisions of section 15393
apply. If the pupil is enrolled in both a school district or charter school
and a dropout recovery program in the same fiscal year and the sum of the
average daily membership and average daily attendance for that pupil is greater
than 1.0 or the amount prescribed in section 15393 if the pupil is
enrolled in a joint technical education district, the sum shall be reduced to
1.0 or to the amount specified in section 15393 if the pupil is enrolled
in a joint technical education district and shall be apportioned between the
school district or charter school and the joint technical education district,
if applicable, and the dropout recovery program based on the proportionate
shares of average daily membership in the school district or charter school and
the average daily attendance in the dropout recovery program.The
uniform system of financial records shall include guidelines for the
apportionment of pupil enrollment and attendance as provided in this
subsection. Pupils in a dropout recovery program do not incur absences for
purposes of this subsection and may generate average daily attendance for
attendance during any hour of the day, during any day of the week and at any
time between July1 and June30 of each fiscal year.The
average daily attendance of a pupil who participates in a dropout recovery
program shall not exceed 1.0 or the amount prescribed in section 15393
if the pupil is enrolled in a joint technical education district, and shall be
calculated by fulfilling the requirements of subsection E of this section.
Average daily membership shall not be calculated on the one hundredth day of
instruction for the purposes of this section.
G.Notwithstanding section 15901, subsection
A, paragraph 1, the average daily membership for pupils enrolled in a dropout
recovery program shall equal the average daily attendance of the pupils.
H.School districts and charter schools shall be
responsible for tuition charges and fees related to pupil participation in a
dropout recovery program, including course materials and access to technology
for use with online courses.
I.School districts and charter schools may contract
with an educational management organization to provide a dropout recovery
program. If contracting with an educational management organization, the
school district or charter school shall ensure that all of the following
requirements are met:
1.The educational management organization is
accredited by a regional accrediting body.
2.Teachers provided by the educational management
organization hold a current teaching license from any state and a valid Arizona
fingerprint clearance card pursuant to section 15534, and teachers of
core subjects are highly qualified in the subjects to which they are assigned.
J.Dropout recovery programs shall be classified as
alternative schools and shall be subject to the accountability provisions of
section 15241, subsection J.
K.Entities that are contracted to provide dropout
recovery programs may conduct outreach to encourage pupils who are not
currently enrolled in a school district or charter school in this state to
return to school. Entities that are contracted to provide dropout recovery
programs shall not conduct advertising or marketing campaigns directed at
pupils who are currently enrolled in a school district or charter school, or
undertake any other activity that encourages pupils who are currently enrolled
in a school district or charter school to stop attending school in order to
qualify for a dropout recovery program.
L.For the purposes of this section:
1."Eligible pupil" means a pupil who, if
enrolled, would be eligible for placement in an alternative school but who is
not currently enrolled in a school district or charter school and who has been
withdrawn from a school district or charter school for at least thirty days,
unless the district determines that the student is unable to participate in
other district programs.
2."Satisfactory monthly progress" means
an amount of progress that is measurable on a monthly basis and that, if
continued for twelve months, would result in the same amount of academic credit
being awarded to the pupil as would be awarded to a pupil in a traditional
education program who completes a full school year. Satisfactory monthly
progress may include a lesser required amount of progress for the first two
months that a pupil participates in the program. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 15-973.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-973.01.Assistance for education fund
A.The assistance for education fund is established
consisting of monies received pursuant to section 43617.
B.The state board of education shall administer the
fund.On notice from the state board, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313 and
monies earned from investments shall be credited to the fund.Monies
in the fund:
1.Are continuously appropriated to the state board
of education.
2.Are exempt from the provisions of section 35190,
relating to lapsing of appropriations.
C.The state board of education shall distribute
monies in the fund to the department of education to fund solutions teams
assigned to schools pursuant to section 15241
15241.02. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Letter grades; data; school years 2016-2017 and 2017-2018
A.For the 2016-2017 school year, the department of
education may release data for school districts, schools and charter schools
based on assessments conducted during the 2015-2016 school year and school
districts, schools and charter schools may publish letter grades pursuant to
the methodology adopted by the state board of education.
B.For the 2017-2018 school year, the department of
education shall publish letter grades based on data collected during the
2016-2017 school year.

