







REFERENCE TITLE: finance review; task force







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1454









Introduced by
Senator
  Hobbs





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING THE
CITIZENS FINANCE REVIEW TASK FORCE.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Citizens finance review task force; membership; duties;
report; delayed repeal
A.The citizens finance review task force is
established consisting of the following members:
1.Three members of the house of representatives,
two of whom shall be appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives
and one of whom shall be appointed by the minority leader of the house of
representatives. The speaker of the house of representatives shall designate
one of these members to serve as cochairperson of the task force.
2.Three members of the senate, two of whom shall be
appointed by the minority leader of the senate and one of whom shall be
appointed by the president of the senate. The minority leader of the senate
shall designate one of these members as cochairperson of the task force.
3.The president of the Arizona board of regents or
the president's designee.
4.The president of the state board of education or
the president's designee.
5.The director of the department of child safety or
the director's designee.
6.The director of the Arizona health care cost
containment system or the director's designee.
7.One representative of a statewide organization
representing the business community who is appointed by the president of the
senate.
8.One representative of a regional business
organization representing rural Arizona who is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives.
9.One representative of a statewide organization
representing business and education leaders who is appointed by the governor.
10.One representative of a statewide organization
representing public school teachers who is appointed by the minority leader of
the senate.
11.One representative of a statewide organization
representing school boards who is appointed by the minority leader of the house
of representatives.
12.One representative of a statewide organization
that advocates on behalf of children in the areas of education, human services
and the state budget who is appointed by the governor.
13.Three economists, one of whom works for the
university of Arizona, one of whom works for Arizona state university and one
of whom works for northern Arizona university. The president of the board of
regents shall appoint these members.
14.One economist from the department of
administration who is appointed by the director of the department of
administration.
15.Two private sector economists who are appointed
by the governor.
B.The task force shall hold regular meetings. All
meetings of the task force shall be open to the public and reasonable notice of
the meetings shall be given pursuant to title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1,
Arizona Revised Statutes.Public testimony shall be allowed at every
meeting.The task force shall meet at least once in Tucson, Yuma and
Flagstaff.
C.Task force members are not eligible to receive
compensation, but members appointed pursuant to subsection A, paragraphs 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of this section are eligible for reimbursement of
expenses under title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
D.The task force shall:
1.Perform an analysis of the source of general fund
and nongeneral fund revenues, as compared to other states, including
sustainable, stable and equitable fund revenues. The revenue analysis shall
include an analysis of the general fund impact of all tax credits and
transaction privilege tax exemptions and their impact on economic development.
2.Perform an analysis of general fund and
nongeneral fund expenditures, as compared to other states, including budgeted
expenditures based on an analysis of necessary funding levels to meet the
responsibilities of the various state agencies.
3.Make recommendations regarding the responsible
retirement of existing state debt.
E.The task force may use the staff of state
agencies, including the joint legislative budget committee and the governor's
office of strategic planning and budgeting, the state universities and
nongovernmental entities for technical assistance and preparation of meeting
presentations.
F.On or before September 30, 2017, the task force
shall submit a report regarding its findings and recommendations to the
governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives. On or before January 31, 2018, the task force shall present
the report to a joint meeting of the house of representatives and senate
appropriations committees. The joint appropriations committees shall allow
public testimony at this meeting.
G.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2018.

