








REFERENCE TITLE: registered nurses; advanced practice







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1473









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto; Representative Boyer: Senator Pancrazi; Representative Rios





AN ACT

Amending section
321601, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262,
section 1; amending section 321602, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
section 321603, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015,
chapter 262, section 2; amending section 321606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 4; amending section 321631,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 321634.03 and 321634.04,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 321635.01 and 321636,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 32, chapter 15, article 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 321641; amending section 321642,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 7;
amending section 321643, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 262, section 8; amending sections 321644 and 321663,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 321666, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 19; amending section 321921,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona state board of nursing.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 1, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Absolute discharge from the sentence"
means completion of any sentence, including imprisonment, probation, parole,
community supervision or any form of court supervision.
2."Advanced
practice registered nurse" means a registered nurse who is licensed to
practice advanced practice nursing and who practices within the limits of
education, certification and licensure as provided in this chapter and in rule
in one of the following roles:
(a)Certified nurse practitioner.
(b)Certified registered nurse
anesthetist.
(c)Certified nurse midwife.
(d)Clinical nurse specialist.
2.3."Approval"
means that a regulated training or educational program to prepare persons for
licensure, certification or registration has met standards established by the
board.
3.4."Board"
means the Arizona state board of nursing.
4.5."Certified
nursing assistant" means a person who is registered on the registry of
nursing assistants pursuant to this chapter to provide or assist in the
delivery of nursing or nursing-related services under the supervision and direction
of a licensed nursing staff member.Certified nursing assistant does
not include a person who:
(a)Is a licensed health care professional.
(b)Volunteers to provide nursing assistant services
without monetary compensation.
(c)Is a licensed nursing assistant.
5.6."Certified
registered nurse" means a registered nurse who has been certified by a
national nursing credentialing agency recognized by the board.
6."Certified
registered nurse anesthetist" means a registered nurse who meets the
requirements of section 321634.03 and who practices pursuant to the
requirements of section 321634.04.
7."Clinical
nurse specialist" means a registered nurse who:
(a)Is
certified by the board as a clinical nurse specialist.
(b)Holds a
graduate degree with a major in nursing and completes educational requirements
as prescribed by the board by rule.
(c)Is
nationally certified as a clinical nurse specialist or, if certification is not
available, provides proof of competence to the board.
(d)Has an
expanded scope of practice based on advanced education in a clinical nursing
specialty that includes:
(i)Assessing clients, synthesizing and analyzing
data and understanding and applying nursing principles at an advanced level.
(ii)Managing directly and indirectly a client's
physical and psychosocial health status.
(iii)Analyzing
multiple sources of data, identifying alternative possibilities as to the
nature of a health care problem and selecting appropriate nursing
interventions.
(iv)Developing,
planning and guiding programs of care for populations of patients.
(v)Making
independent nursing decisions to solve complex client care problems.
(vi)Using
research skills and acquiring and applying critical new knowledge and
technologies to nursing practice.
(vii)Prescribing
and dispensing durable medical equipment.
(viii)Consulting
with or referring a client to other health care providers based on assessment
of the client's health status and needs.
(ix)Facilitating
collaboration with other disciplines to attain the desired client outcome
across the continuum of care.
(x)Performing
additional acts that require education and training as prescribed by the board
and that are recognized by the nursing profession as proper to be performed by
a clinical nurse specialist.
8.7."Conditional
license" or "conditional approval" means a license or approval
that specifies the conditions under which the regulated party is allowed to
practice or to operate and that is prescribed by the board pursuant to section
321644 or 321663.
9.8."Delegation"
means transferring to a competent individual the authority to perform a
selected nursing task in a designated situation in which the nurse making the
delegation retains accountability for the delegation.
10.9."Disciplinary
action" means a regulatory sanction of a license, certificate or approval
pursuant to this chapter in any combination of the following:
(a)A civil penalty for each violation of this
chapter, not to exceed one thousand dollars for each violation.
(b)Restitution made to an aggrieved party.
(c)A decree of censure.
(d)A conditional license or a conditional approval
that fixed a period and terms of probation.
(e)Limited licensure.
(f)Suspension of a license, a certificate or an
approval.
(g)Voluntary surrender of a license, a certificate
or an approval.
(h)Revocation of a license, a certificate or an
approval.
11.10."Health
care institution" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36401.
12.11."Licensed
nursing assistant" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter
to provide or assist in the delivery of nursing or nursing-related services
under the supervision and direction of a licensed nursing staff
member.Licensed nursing assistant does not include a person who:
(a)Is a licensed health care professional.
(b)Volunteers to provide nursing assistant services
without monetary compensation.
(c)Is a certified nursing assistant.
13.12."Licensee"
means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter or in a party state as
defined in section 321668.
14.13."Limited
license" means a license that restricts the scope or setting of a
licensee's practice.
15.14."Medication
order" means a written or verbal communication given by a certified
registered nurse anesthetist to a health care professional to administer a drug
or medication.
16.15."Practical
nurse" means a person who holds a practical nurse license issued pursuant
to this chapter or pursuant to a multistate compact privilege and who practices
practical nursing as defined in this section.
17.16."Practical
nursing" includes the following activities that are performed under the
supervision of a physician or a registered nurse:
(a)Contributing to the assessment of the health
status of individuals and groups.
(b)Participating in the development and
modification of the strategy of care.
(c)Implementing aspects of the strategy of care
within the nurse's scope of practice.
(d)Maintaining safe and effective nursing care that
is rendered directly or indirectly.
(e)Participating in the evaluation of responses to
interventions.
(f)Delegating nursing activities within the scope
of practice of a practical nurse.
(g)Performing additional acts that require
education and training as prescribed by the board and that are recognized by
the nursing profession as proper to be performed by a practical nurse.
18."Presence"
means within the same room or an adjoining room or within the same surgical or
obstetrical suite.
19.17."Registered
nurse" or "professional nurse" means a person who practices
registered nursing and who holds a registered nurse license issued pursuant to
this chapter or pursuant to a multistate compact privilege.
20."Registered
nurse practitioner" means a registered nurse who:
(a)Is
certified by the board.
(b)Has
completed a nurse practitioner education program approved or recognized by the
board and educational requirements prescribed by the board by rule.
(c)If
applying for certification after July 1, 2004, holds national certification as
a nurse practitioner from a national certifying body recognized by the board.
(d)Has an
expanded scope of practice within a specialty area that includes:
(i)Assessing
clients, synthesizing and analyzing data and understanding and applying
principles of health care at an advanced level.
(ii)Managing
the physical and psychosocial health status of clients.
(iii)Analyzing
multiple sources of data, identifying alternative possibilities as to the
nature of a health care problem and selecting, implementing and evaluating
appropriate treatment.
(iv)Making
independent decisions in solving complex client care problems.
(v)Diagnosing,
performing diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and prescribing,
administering and dispensing therapeutic measures, including legend drugs,
medical devices and controlled substances within the scope of registered nurse
practitioner practice on meeting the requirements established by the board.
(vi)Recognizing
the limits of the nurse's knowledge and experience and planning for situations
beyond the nurse's knowledge, educational preparation and expertise by
consulting with or referring clients to other health care providers when
appropriate.
(vii)Delegating
to a medical assistant pursuant to section 321456.
(viii)Performing
additional acts that require education and training as prescribed by the board
and that are recognized by the nursing profession as proper to be performed by
a nurse practitioner.
21.18."Registered
nursing" includes the following:
(a)Diagnosing and treating human responses to
actual or potential health problems.
(b)Assisting individuals and groups to maintain or
attain optimal health by implementing a strategy of care to accomplish defined
goals and evaluating responses to care and treatment.
(c)Assessing the health status of individuals and
groups.
(d)Establishing a nursing diagnosis.
(e)Establishing goals to meet identified health
care needs.
(f)Prescribing nursing interventions to implement a
strategy of care.
(g)Delegating nursing interventions to others who
are qualified to do so.
(h)Providing for the maintenance of safe and
effective nursing care that is rendered directly or indirectly.
(i)Evaluating responses to interventions.
(j)Teaching nursing knowledge and skills.
(k)Managing and supervising the practice of
nursing.
(l)Consulting and
coordinating with other health care professionals in the management of health
care.
(m)Performing
additional acts that require education and training as prescribed by the board
and that are recognized by the nursing profession as proper to be performed by
a registered nurse.
22.19."Registry
of nursing assistants" means the nursing assistants registry maintained by
the board pursuant to the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1987 (P.L.100203;
101 Stat. 1330), as amended by the medicare catastrophic coverage act of 1988
(P.L. 100360; 102 Stat. 683).
23.20."Regulated
party" means any person or entity that is licensed, certified, registered,
recognized or approved pursuant to this chapter.
24.21."Unprofessional
conduct" includes the following, whether occurring in this state or
elsewhere:
(a)Committing fraud or deceit in obtaining,
attempting to obtain or renewing a license or a certificate issued pursuant to
this chapter.
(b)Committing a felony, whether or not involving
moral turpitude, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.In
either case, conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction or a plea of no
contest is conclusive evidence of the commission.
(c)Aiding or abetting in a criminal abortion or
attempting, agreeing or offering to procure or assist in a criminal abortion.
(d)Any conduct or practice that is or might be
harmful or dangerous to the health of a patient or the public.
(e)Being mentally incompetent or physically unsafe
to a degree that is or might be harmful or dangerous to the health of a patient
or the public.
(f)Having a license, certificate, permit or
registration to practice a health care profession denied, suspended,
conditioned, limited or revoked in another jurisdiction and not reinstated by
that jurisdiction.
(g)Wilfully or repeatedly violating a provision of
this chapter or a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(h)Committing an act that deceives, defrauds or
harms the public.
(i)Failing to comply with a stipulated agreement,
consent agreement or board order.
(j)Violating this chapter or a rule that is adopted
by the board pursuant to this chapter.
(k)Failing to report to the board any evidence that
a registered or practical nurse or a nursing assistant is or may be:
(i)Incompetent to practice.
(ii)Guilty of unprofessional conduct.
(iii)Mentally or physically unable to safely
practice nursing or to perform nursing related duties. A nurse who is
providing therapeutic counseling for a nurse who is in a drug rehabilitation
program is required to report that nurse only if the nurse providing
therapeutic counseling has personal knowledge that patient safety is being
jeopardized.
(l)Failing to selfreport a conviction for a
felony or undesignated offense within ten days after the conviction.
(m)Cheating or assisting another to cheat on a
licensure or certification examination.
Sec.2.Section
32-1602, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1602.Arizona state board of nursing; member terms; immunity
A.The Arizona
state board of nursing is established consisting of eleven
members who are appointed by the governor.Six members shall be
registered nurses, including at least one registered nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist or certified
registered nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse. One
member shall be a nursing assistant or a nursing assistant
educator.Two members shall represent the public and two members
shall be licensed practical nurses. Members shall be appointed for a term of
five years, to begin and end on June30.
B.On or before May 1 each year and at any other
time a vacancy on the board occurs, the governor shall make an appointment or
appointments to the board.Appointment to fill a vacancy other than
by expiration shall be for the unexpired term.A person shall not
serve more than two consecutive terms as a member of the board.
C.The governor may remove any person from the board
for neglect of any duty imposed by law or for incompetency or unprofessional or
dishonorable conduct.
D.A board member's term automatically ends:
1.On the death of the member.
2.On the member's written resignation submitted to
the board president or to the governor.
3.On the member's failure to attend three
consecutive board meetings.
E.A board member who acts within the scope of board
duties, without malice and in the reasonable belief that the member's action is
warranted by law is not subject to civil liability. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-1603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 2, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1603.Qualifications of board members
A.Each registered nurse member of the board shall:
1.Be a resident of the state.
2.Be a graduate of an approved registered nursing
program.
3.Be licensed as a registered nurse in this state.
4.Have had at least five years' experience in
nursing following graduation, including executive, supervisory or teaching
experience in nursing education or nursing service.
5.Have been actively engaged in the practice of
nursing or nursing activities for at least three years preceding the
appointment.
B.Each licensed
practical nurse member of the board shall:
1.Be a resident of
this state.
2.Be a graduate of
an approved practical nursing program.
3.Be licensed as a
licensed practical nurse in this state.
4.Have had at least five years' experience in
practical nursing following graduation.
5.Have been actively engaged in the practice of
nursing for at least three years preceding the appointment.
C.Each public member of the board shall be a person
who:
1.Is not licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 8, 11, 13,
14, 15.1, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19.1, 21, 25 or 29 of this title or this chapter as
an individual health care provider.
2.Is not an employee of any health care institution
licensed pursuant to title 36, chapter 4 or any authorized insurer providing
disability insurance coverage in this state.
3.Does not have a financial interest as a provider
in the delivery of health care services.
D.Each licensed nursing assistant or certified nursing
assistant member of the board shall either:
1.Be a licensed nursing assistant or a certified
nursing assistant pursuant to this chapter and currently practice or have
practiced within three years before initial appointment to the board.
2.Within one year before appointment to the board,
have been employed as an instructor or coordinator in an approved licensed
nursing assistant or certified nursing assistant training program.
E.For at least three years preceding appointment to
the board, each registered nurse
practitioner or clinical nurse specialist advanced practice registered nurse member
shall be certified licensed pursuant to this
chapter and actively practicing as a
registered nurse practitioner, actively engaged in a clinical nurse specialist
practice an advanced
practice registered nurse or teaching.
F.Each member of the board shall take and subscribe
to the oath prescribed by law for state officers, which shall be filed with the
secretary of state. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 32-1606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 4, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1606.Powers and duties of board
A.The board may:
1.Adopt and revise rules necessary to carry into
effect this chapter.
2.Publish advisory opinions regarding registered
and practical nursing practice and nursing education.
3.Issue limited licenses or certificates if it
determines that an applicant or licensee cannot function safely in a specific
setting or within the full scope of practice.
4.Refer criminal violations of this chapter to the
appropriate law enforcement agency.
5.Establish a confidential program for the
monitoring of licensees who are chemically dependent and who enroll in
rehabilitation programs that meet the criteria established by the
board.The board may take further action if the licensee refuses to
enter into a stipulated agreement or fails to comply with its terms.In
order to protect the public health and safety, the confidentiality requirements
of this paragraph do not apply if the licensee does not comply with the
stipulated agreement.
6.On the applicant's or regulated party's request,
establish a payment schedule with the applicant or regulated party.
7.Provide education regarding board functions.
8.Collect or assist in the collection of workforce
data.
9.Adopt rules for conducting pilot programs
consistent with public safety for innovative applications in nursing practice,
education and regulation.
10.Grant retirement status on request to retired
nurses who are or were licensed under this chapter, who have no open complaint
or investigation pending against them and who are not subject to discipline.
11.Accept and spend federal monies and private
grants, gifts, contributions and devises to assist in carrying out the purposes
of this chapter. These monies do not revert to the state general fund at the
end of the fiscal year.
B.The board shall:
1.Approve regulated training and educational
programs that meet the requirements of this chapter and rules adopted by the
board.
2.By rule, establish approval and reapproval
processes for nursing and nursing assistant training programs that meet the
requirements of this chapter and board rules.
3.Prepare and maintain a list of approved nursing
programs for the preparation of registered and practical nurses whose graduates
are eligible for licensing under this chapter as registered nurses or as
practical nurses if they satisfy the other requirements of this chapter and
board rules.
4.Examine qualified registered and practical nurse
applicants.
5.License and renew the licenses of qualified
registered and practical nurse applicants and licensed nursing assistants who
are not qualified to be licensed by the executive director.
6.Adopt a seal, which the executive director shall
keep.
7.Keep a record of all proceedings.
8.For proper cause, deny or rescind approval of a
regulated training or educational program for failure to comply with this
chapter or the rules of the board.
9.Adopt rules for the approval of credential
evaluation services that evaluate the qualifications of applicants who
graduated from an international nursing program.
10.Determine and administer appropriate
disciplinary action against all regulated parties who are found guilty of
violating this chapter or rules adopted by the board.
11.Perform functions necessary to carry out the
requirements of nursing assistant and nurse aide training and competency
evaluation program as set forth in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of
1987 (P.L. 100203; 101 Stat. 1330), as amended by the medicare
catastrophic coverage act of 1988 (P.L. 100360; 102 Stat.
683).These functions shall include:
(a)Testing and registration of certified nursing
assistants.
(b)Testing and licensing of licensed nursing
assistants.
(c)Maintaining a list of board approved board-approved training programs.
(d)Maintaining a registry of nursing assistants for
all certified nursing assistants and licensed nursing assistants.
(e)Assessing fees.
12.Adopt rules establishing those acts that may be
performed by aregistered nurse
practitioner in collaboration with a licensed physician, except that the board
does not have authority to decide scope of practice relating to abortion as
defined in section 362151 an advanced practice registered nurse within the focus of
care for each role. The board shall not adopt a scope of practice that is
inconsistent with title 36, chapter 20, article 1.
13.Adopt rules establishing educational
requirements for the certification of school nurses.
14.Publish copies of board rules and distribute
these copies on request.
15.Require each applicant for initial licensure or
certification to submit a full set of fingerprints to the board for the purpose
of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750
and Public Law 92544.The department of public safety may
exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.
16.Revoke a license of a person, revoke the
multistate licensure privilege of a person pursuant to section 321669 or
not issue a license or renewal to an applicant who has one or more felony
convictions and who has not received an absolute discharge from the sentences
for all felony convictions five or more years before the date of filing an
application pursuant to this chapter.
17.Establish standards for approving and
reapproving nurse practitioner and
clinical nurse specialist advanced
practice registered nursing programs and provide for surveys of nurse practitioner and clinical nurse
specialist advanced
practice registered nursing programs as it deems necessary.
18.Provide the licensing authorities of health care
institutions, facilities and homes any information the board receives regarding
practices that place a patient's health at risk.
19.Limit the multistate licensure privilege of any
person who holds or applies for a license in this state pursuant to section 321668.
20.Adopt rules to establish competency standards
for obtaining and maintaining a license.
21.Adopt
rules for the qualification and certification of clinical nurse specialists.
21.Adopt
rules pursuant to section 321921, subsection A, paragraph 1 to establish
educational and practice requirements for granting prescribing and dispensing
privileges for advanced practice registered nurses consistent with the
education, certification and licensure of each role and this chapter.
22.Adopt rules for approval and reapproval of
refresher courses for nurses who are not currently practicing.
23.Maintain a list of approved medication assistant
training programs.
24.Test and certify medication assistants.
25.Maintain a registry and disciplinary record of
medication assistants who are certified pursuant to this chapter.
C.The board may conduct an investigation on receipt
of information that indicates that a person or regulated party may have
violated this chapter or a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter.Following
the investigation, the board may take disciplinary action pursuant to this
chapter.
D.The board may limit, revoke or suspend the
privilege of a nurse to practice in this state granted pursuant to section 321668.
E.Failure to comply with any final order of the
board, including an order of censure or probation, is cause for suspension or
revocation of a license or a certificate.
F.The president or a member of the board designated
by the president may administer oaths in transacting the business of the board.
END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-1631, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1631.Acts and persons not affected by chapter
This chapter does not prohibit:
1.Auxiliary or supportive services by maids,
porters, messengers, bus boys, nurses aides or attendants working under
competent supervision in a licensed hospital, or gratuitous care by friends or
members of the family of a sick or infirm person or incidental care of the sick
by a domestic servant or person employed primarily as a housekeeper, as long as
these persons do not practice registered nursing or claim to be licensed
practical nurses.
2.Nursing assistance in cases of emergency.
3.Nursing by duly enrolled prelicensure students
under competent supervision in approved nursing programs.
4.The practice of nursing in this state by any
legally qualified nurse of another state whose engagement requires the nurse to
accompany and care for a patient temporarily residing in this state during one
such engagement not to exceed six months, if the nurse does not claim to be a
nurse licensed to practice in this state.
5.Nursing by any legally qualified nurse of another
state who is employed by the government of the United States or any bureau,
division or agency of the United States government in the discharge of that
person's official duties.
6.Caring for the sick in connection with the
practice of religion or treatment by prayer.
7.Registered
nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist The practice of advanced practice registered nursing by
duly enrolled students under competent supervision as part of a registered nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist
an advanced practice registered nursing
program if the program is approved by a United States nursing
regulatory agency in the state of the parent institution and the student is
authorized to practice registered nursing in this state.
8.Nursing education provided to students in this
state that is provided electronically or in person by a person who resides in
another state and who is licensed to practice registered nursing in that state
if the provision of education does not exceed six consecutive months in any
calendar year and does not include supervising or providing clinical care.
9.Consulting services that are provided to persons
in this state electronically or in person by a person who resides in another
state and who is licensed to practice registered nursing in that state if the
provision of services does not exceed six consecutive months in any calendar
year and does not include direct patient care. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Sections 321634.03
and 321634.04,
Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.7.Section 32-1635.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1635.01.Temporary advanced practice registered nurse license
A.The board may issue a temporary nurse practitioner certificate advanced practice registered nurse license,
including prescribing and dispensing authority, or a temporary clinical nurse specialist certificate
to a registered nurse who holds an unencumbered temporary or permanent license
and who meets the requirements for certification licensure and prescribing and
dispensing authority as prescribed by this
chapter and board rules.
B.A temporary certificate license
expires on the date specified in the certificate license and may be renewed at
the discretion of the executive director. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-1636, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1636.Use of titles or abbreviations
A.Only a person who holds a valid and current
license to practice registered nursing in this state or in a party state
pursuant to section 321668 may use the title "nurse",
"registered nurse", "graduate nurse" or "professional
nurse" or the abbreviation "R.N.".
B.Only a person who holds a valid and current
license to practice practical nursing in this state or in a party state as
defined in section 321668 may use the title "nurse",
"licensed practical nurse" or "practical nurse" or the
abbreviation "L.P.N.".
C.Only a person who holds a valid and current certificate license issued pursuant to this chapter to
practice as a registered certified nurse practitioner
in this state may use the title "nurse practitioner", or
"registered certified nurse
practitioner" or "nurse
midwife", if applicable, or use any words or letters to
indicate the person is a registered certified nurse practitioner.
A person who is certified licensed as a registered certified nurse practitioner shall indicate
by title or initials the specialty area of certification licensure.
D.Only a person who holds a valid and current certificate license issued pursuant to this chapter to
practice as a clinical nurse specialist may use the title "clinical nurse
specialist" or use any words or letters to indicate the person is a
clinical nurse specialist. A person who is certified licensed as a clinical nurse specialist shall indicate by
title or initials the specialty area of certification licensure.
E.Only a
person who holds a valid and current license issued pursuant to this chapter to
practice as a certified nurse midwife may use the title "certified nurse
midwife" or "nurse midwife" or use any words or letters to indicate
the person is a certified nurse midwife. A person who is licensed as a
certified nurse midwife shall indicate by title or initials the specialty area
of licensure.
F.Only a
person who holds a valid and current license issued pursuant to this chapter to
practice as a certified registered nurse anesthetist may use the title
"certified registered nurse anesthetist" or "nurse
anesthetist" or use any words or letters to indicate the person is a
certified registered nurse anesthetist. A person who is licensed as a
certified registered nurse anesthetist shall indicate by title or initials the
area of licensure.
E.G.A
nurse who is granted retirement status shall not practice nursing but may use
the title "registered nurseretired" or "RN-retired"
or "licensed practical nurseretired" or
"LPN-retired", as applicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Title 32, chapter 15, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-1641, to read:
START_STATUTE32-1641.Advanced practice registered nurses; licensing; scope of
practice; prescribing privileges; requirements; definition
A.The board
may license a registered nurse pursuant to this chapter as an advanced practice
registered nurse if the registered nurse meets all of the following
requirements:
1.Submits
an application as prescribed by the board.
2.Has
completed an accredited graduate-level education program for advanced practice
registered nurses in one of the four roles specified in section 32-1601,
paragraph 2 and, if applying for licensure as a clinical nurse specialist or a
certified nurse practitioner, in at least one population focus.
3.Has
passed a national certification examination as specified by the board that
measures the advanced practice registered nurse role and the related
competencies.
4.Has paid
the required fee.
B.In
addition to the registered nurse scope of practice and within the role and
competency focus of the advanced practice registered nurse, the scope of
practice shall include:
1.Maintaining
and promoting health and the prevention of disease.
2.Diagnosing,
including ordering the interpreting diagnostic procedures as appropriate for
the person's level of education and training.
3.If
granted privileges and subject to the requirements and limitations specified in
this section, Prescribing, ordering and dispensing pharmacological agents.
4.Delegating
and assigning therapeutic measures to assistive personnel.
5.consulting
with other disciplines and providing referrals to health care agencies, health
care providers and community resources.
6.Planning
and initiating a therapeutic regimen that may include ordering and prescribing
nonpharmacological interventions, including durable medical equipment, medical
devices, nutrition and diagnostic and supportive services such as home health
care, hospice care and physical and occupational therapies.
7.Performing
additional acts that require education and training as prescribed by the board and
that are proper to be performed by an advanced practice registered nurse within
the focus of care for each role.
C.If
granted privileges and subject to the requirements and limitations specified in
this section, Prescribing, administering, procuring, ordering and dispensing
pharmacological agents shall include the authority to prescribe, administer,
procure, order and dispense pharmacological agents, including overthecounter
medications and legend and controlled substances, consistent with the education,
certification and licensure of the applicant.
D.As part
of and complementary to a procedure, test or childbirth delivery performed or
ordered by a health care provider, a certified registered nurse anesthetist, in
coordination with that health care provider or a designated provider and
without supervision by the health care provider, may:
1.Notwithstanding
subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section, prescribe and provide anesthesia and
analgesic services and treatment including those controlled substances
necessary to provide those services.
2.If
granted prescribing privileges pursuant to this section, prescribe and provide,
for not more than seven days before or after a procedure, test or childbirth
delivery, nonanesthesia and nonanalgesic pharmacological agents
necessary to facilitate the provision of anesthesia and analgesic services.
The certified registered nurse anesthetist shall not prescribe an opioid
medication for patient selfadministration.
E.The
prescribing privileges of a clinical nurse specialist are limited as follows:
1.A
clinical nurse specialist may not prescribe opioid medications for patient
self-administration.
2.A
clinical nurse specialist who has been granted prescribing privileges may
prescribe only for patients of an accredited or licensed health care
institution or health care agency that uses the services of the clinical nurse
specialist and shall observe the protocols and standards of care of the
institution or agency.
3.A
clinical nurse specialist shall notify the medical director or the physician
responsible for managing a patient within one business day after writing a
prescription order for the patient that is new or that changes an existing
dosage, unless the clinical nurse specialist is acting pursuant to a written
protocol that provides for the types and amounts of pharmacological agents to
be prescribed.
F.The
requirements for an advanced practice registered nurse to be granted privileges
to prescribe pharmacological agents shall include:
1.Graduate-level
courses in each of the following:
(a)Advanced physiology and
pathophysiology, including general principles across a person's life span.
(b)Advanced health assessment,
which includes assessment of all human systems and advanced assessment
techniques, concepts and approaches as appropriate for each role and population
focus.
(c)Advanced pharmacology, which
includes pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics and pharmacotherapeutics of all
broad category agents.
(d)The diagnosis and management of
diseases as related to the role and population focus of the applicant.
(e)Clinical preceptorship in
patient management, including pharmacotherapeutics, that is comparable to the
requirements for the completion of a certified nurse practitioner program as
appropriate for each role and population focus.Clinical preceptors
shall hold a current unencumbered license to practice either as a physician or
as an advanced practice registered nurse with prescribing authority and at
least one year of clinical experience.
2.Meeting
the requirements of subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section.
G.An
advanced practice registered nurse shall consult with or refer to one or more
persons who are licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 11, 13 or 17 of this title if
the consultation or referral is appropriate. An advanced practice registered
nurse's activities are not required to be supervised by a physician, and a
referral agreement is not required.
H.For the
purposes of:
1.This
section, "opioid" means a class II controlled substance.
2.Subsection
D of this section:
(a)"Coordination" means
that through the period in which anesthesia or analgesic services are provided
by the certified registered nurse anesthetist either:
(i)The health care provider is
performing the procedure, test or childbirth.
(ii)The health care provider has
ordered anesthesia or analgesic services and the health care provider or health
care provider's designee is available onsite or through telecommunication.
(b)"Health care provider"
means a person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 11, 13 or 17 of this
title or a certified nurse midwife who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and
who is acting within the midwife's scope of practice. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 32-1642, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 7, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1642.Renewal of license or registration; failure to renew
A.Except as provided in section 324301, a
registered nurse, advanced practice
registered nurse and practical nurse licensee shall renew the
license every four years on or before April 1. If a licensee does not renew
the license on or before May 1, the licensee shall pay an additional fee for
late renewal as prescribed in section 321643. If a licensee does not
renew the license on or before August 1, the license expires.It is
a violation of this chapter for a person to practice nursing with an expired
license.
B.An applicant for renewal of a registered nurse, advanced practice registered nurse or
practical nursing nurse license shall submit a
verified statement that indicates whether the applicant has been convicted of a
felony and, if convicted of one or more felonies, indicates the date of
absolute discharge from the sentences for all felony convictions.
C.On receipt of the application and fee, the board
shall verify the accuracy of the application and issue to the applicant an
active renewal license, which shall be effective for the following four
calendar years.The renewal license shall render the holder a legal
practitioner of nursing, as specified in the license, during the period stated
on the certificate of renewal. A licensee who fails to secure a renewal license
within the time specified may secure a renewal license by making verified
application as the board prescribes by furnishing proof of being qualified and
competent to act as a registered nurse,
advanced practice registered nurse or practical nurse, and
additional information and material as required by the board, and by payment of
the prescribed fee.
D.Except as provided in section 324301, a
licensed nursing assistant shall renew the license every two years on the last
day of the licensed nursing assistant's birth month.An applicant
for renewal shall submit a verified statement that indicates whether the
applicant has been convicted of a felony and, if convicted of one or more
felonies, indicates the date of absolute discharge from the sentences for all
felony convictions.On receipt of the application and fee, the board
shall issue a renewal license to qualified applicants.
E.Except as provided in section 324301, a
certified nursing assistant shall file an application to renew the certified nursing
assistant registration every two years on the last day of the certified nursing
assistant's birth month. An applicant for renewal shall submit a verified
statement that indicates whether the applicant has performed nursing or
nursing-related services within the previous twentyfour consecutive
months and whether the individual's registry entry includes documented findings
of abuse, neglect or misappropriation of property.On receipt of the
application, the board shall issue a renewal registration to each qualified
renewal applicant.
F.On written request to the board, the name and
license of a licensee in good standing may be transferred to an inactive
list.The licensee shall not practice during the time the license is
inactive, and renewal fees do not accrue.If an inactive licensee
wishes to resume the practice of nursing, the board shall renew the license on
satisfactory showing that the licensee is then qualified and competent to
practice and on payment of the current renewal fee.The licensee
shall also file with the board a verified statement that indicates whether the
applicant has been convicted of a felony and, if convicted of one or more
felonies, that indicates the date of absolute discharge from the sentences for
all felony convictions. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 32-1643, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 8, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1643.Fees; penalties
A.The board by formal vote at its annual meeting
shall establish fees not to exceed the following amounts:
1.Initial application for certification for certified registered nurse anesthetist,
registered nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist in specialty areas licensure as an advanced practice registered
nurse, one hundred fifty dollars.
2.Initial application for school nurse
certification, seventyfive dollars.
3.Initial application for license as a registered
nurse, one hundred fifty dollars.
4.Initial application for license as a practical
nurse, one hundred fifty dollars.
5.Application for reissuance of a registered or
practical nursing license, one hundred fifty dollars.
6.Application for renewal of a registered nurse, an advanced practice registered nurse
or a practical nurse license before expiration, one hundred sixty dollars.
7.Application for renewal of a registered nurse, an advanced practice registered nurse or
a practical nurse license after expiration, one hundred sixty
dollars, plus a late fee of fifty dollars for each month a the
license is lapsed, but not to exceed a total of two hundred
dollars.
8.Application for renewal of a school nurse
certificate, fifty dollars.
9.Application for temporary registered nurse,
practical nurse or licensed nursing assistant license, fifty dollars.
10.Retaking the registered nurse or practical nurse
examination, one hundred dollars.
11.Issuing a license to an applicant to become a
licensed nursing assistant, fifty dollars.
12.Issuing a license to a licensed nursing
assistant applicant for renewal, fifty dollars.
13.Application for renewal of a licensed nursing
assistant license after its expiration, twentyfive dollars for each year
it is expired, not to exceed a total of one hundred dollars.
14.Issuing a duplicate license or certificate,
twentyfive dollars.
15.Copying a nursing program transcript, twentyfive
dollars.
16.Verification to another state or country of
licensure for endorsement, certification
licensure for advanced
practice or licensed nursing assistant licensure, fifty dollars.
17.Providing
verification to an applicant for licensure or for licensed nursing assistant
licensure by endorsement, fifty dollars.
18.Application to
prescribe, order and
dispense medication and application to
prescribe medication, one hundred fifty dollars.
19.Application
for renewal of prescribing and dispensing medication privileges before
expiration and application for renewal of prescribing medication privileges before
expiration, twenty dollars.
20.Application
for renewal of prescribing and dispensing medication privileges after
expiration and application for renewal of prescribing medication privileges
after expiration, thirtyfive dollars.
21.19.Issuing an
inactive license, fifty dollars.
22.20.Writing the
national council licensing examination for the first time, one hundred fifty
dollars.
23.21.Sale of
publications prepared by the board, fifty dollars.
24.22.Providing notary
services, two dollars, or as allowed under section 41316.
25.23.Copying records,
documents, letters, minutes, applications and files, fifty cents a page.
26.24.Processing
fingerprint cards, fifty dollars.
27.25.Registration for
board seminars, one hundred dollars.
28.26.Failing to
notify the board of a change of address pursuant to section 321609,
twentyfive dollars.
B.The board may collect from the drawer of a
dishonored check, draft order or note an amount allowed pursuant to section 446852.
END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 32-1644, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1644.Approval of nursing schools and programs; application;
maintenance of standards
A.The board shall approve all new prelicensure
nursing, nurse practitioner and clinical
nurse specialist and
advanced practice registered nursing programs pursuant to this
section.A postsecondary educational institution or a school in this state that is accredited by
an accrediting agency recognized by the United States department of education
desiring to conduct a registered nursing, practical nursing, nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist or advanced practice registered nursing program
shall apply to the board for approval and submit satisfactory proof that it is
prepared to meet and maintain the minimum standards prescribed by this chapter
and board rules.
B.The board or its authorized agent shall
may conduct a survey of the institution or program applying for
approval and shall submit a written report of its findings to the board. If
the board determines that the program meets the requirements prescribed in its
rules, it the board shall approve the applicant as
either a registered nursing program, a practical
nursing program, nurse practitioner
program or clinical nurse specialist program in a specialty area or an advanced practice registered nursing
program. Certified nurse
practitioner and clinical nurse specialist programs may be approved only for
the specific population of care.
C.A nursing program approved by the board may also
be accredited by a national nursing accrediting agency recognized by the
board.If a prelicensure nursing program is accredited by a national
nursing accrediting agency recognized by the board, the board does not have
authority over it unless any of the following occurs:
1.The board receives a complaint about the program
relating to patient safety.
2.The program falls below the standards prescribed
by the board in its rules.
3.The program loses its accreditation by a national
nursing accrediting agency recognized by the board.
4.The program allows its accreditation by a
national nursing accrediting agency recognized by the board to lapse.
D.From time to time the board, through its
authorized employees or representatives, may resurvey all approved programs in
the state and shall file written reports of these resurveys with the
board.If the board determines that an approved nursing program is
not maintaining the required standards, it
the board shall
immediately give written notice to the program specifying the
defects.If the defects are not corrected within a reasonable time
as determined by the board, the board may take either of the following actions:
1.Approve the program but restrict the program's
ability to admit new students until the program complies with board standards.
2.Remove the program from the list of approved
nursing programs until the program complies with board standards.
E.All approved nursing programs shall maintain
accurate and current records showing in full the theoretical and practical
courses given to each student.
F.The board does not have regulatory authority over
the following approved nurse practitioner
or clinical nurse specialist advanced practice registered nursing programs
unless the conditions prescribed in subsection C of this section are met:
1.A nurse
practitioner or clinical nurse specialist An advanced practice registered nursing
program that is part of a graduate program in nursing accredited by an agency
recognized by the board if the program was surveyed as part of the graduate
program accreditation.
2.A nurse
practitioner or clinical nurse specialist An advanced practice registered nursing
program that is accredited by an agency recognized by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section
32-1663, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1663.Disciplinary action
A.If an applicant
for licensure or certification commits an act of unprofessional conduct, the
board, after an investigation, may deny the application or take other
disciplinary action.
B.In its denial order, the board shall immediately
invalidate any temporary license or certificate issued to the applicant.
C.Any person aggrieved by an order of the board
issued under the authority granted by subsection A of this section may request
an administrative hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
D.If the board finds, after affording an
opportunity to request an administrative hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter
6, article 10, that a person who holds a license or certificate issued pursuant
to this chapter has committed an act of unprofessional conduct, it may take
disciplinary action.
E.If the board finds after giving the person an
opportunity to request an administrative hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter
6, article 10 that a nurse who practices in this state and is licensed by
another jurisdiction pursuant to section 321668 committed an act of
unprofessional conduct, the board may limit, suspend or revoke the privilege of
that nurse to practice in this state.
F.If the board determines pursuant to an
investigation that reasonable grounds exist to discipline a person pursuant to
subsection D or E of this section, the board may serve on the licensee or
certificate holder a written notice that states:
1.That the board has sufficient evidence that, if not
rebutted or explained, will justify the board in taking disciplinary actions
allowed by this chapter.
2.The nature of the allegations asserted and that
cites the specific statutes or rules violated.
3.That unless the licensee or certificate holder submits
a written request for a hearing within thirty days after service of the notice
by certified mail, the board may consider the allegations admitted and may take
any disciplinary action allowed pursuant to this chapter without conducting a
hearing.
G.If the Arizona
state board of nursing acts to modify any registered nurse practitioner's prescription writing
advanced practice registered nurse's
prescription-writing privileges, it shall immediately notify the Arizona state board of pharmacy
of the modification. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 32-1666, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 19, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1666.Unlawful acts
A.It is unlawful for a person who is not licensed
or certified under this chapter to:
1.Practice or offer to practice as a registered or
practical nurse,registered nurse
practitioner or clinical nurse specialist or advanced practice registered nurse in this
state.
2.Represent or use any title, abbreviation,
letters, figures, sign, card or device to indicate that the person or any other
person is a registered nurse, graduate nurse, professional nurse, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, advanced practice registered nurse,
practical nurse, licensed nursing assistant or certified nursing assistant.
3.Represent or use any title, abbreviation,
letters, sign, card or device to indicate that the person or any other person
is licensed or certified
pursuant to this chapter.
B.It is unlawful for a person to operate a training
or educational program to prepare students for licensure or certification under
this chapter unless it has been approved under this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 32-1921, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1921.Exempted acts; exemption from registration fees;
definition
A.This chapter does not prevent:
1.The prescription prescribing and dispensing of
drugs or prescription medications by a
registered nurse practitioner an advanced practice registered nurse
pursuant to rules adopted by the Arizona
state board of nursing in consultation with the Arizona medical
board, the board of osteopathic examiners in medicine and surgery and the board
of pharmacy.
2.The sale of nonprescription drugs that are sold
at retail in original packages by a person holding a permit issued by the board
under this chapter.
3.The sale of drugs at wholesale by a wholesaler or
manufacturer that holds the required permit issued by the board to a person who
holds the required permit issued under this chapter.
4.The manufacturing of drugs by a person who is not
a pharmacist and who holds the required permit issued by the board under this
chapter.
5.The following health professionals from
dispensing or personally administering drugs or devices to a patient for a
condition being treated by the health professional:
(a)A doctor of medicine licensed pursuant to
chapter 13 of this title.
(b)An osteopathic physician licensed pursuant to
chapter 17 of this title.
(c)A homeopathic physician licensed pursuant to
chapter 29 of this title.
(d)A podiatrist licensed pursuant to chapter 7 of
this title.
(e)A dentist licensed pursuant to chapter 11 of
this title.
(f)A doctor of naturopathic medicine who is
authorized to prescribe natural substances, drugs or devices and who is
licensed pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
(g)An optometrist who is licensed pursuant to
chapter 16 of this title and who is certified for topical or oral
pharmaceutical agents.
6.A veterinarian licensed pursuant to chapter 21 of
this title from dispensing or administering drugs to an animal or from
dispensing or administering devices to an animal being treated by the
veterinarian.
7.The use of any pesticide chemical, soil or plant
nutrient or other agricultural chemical that is a color additive solely because
of its effect in aiding, retarding or otherwise affecting directly or
indirectly the growth or other natural physiological process of produce of the
soil and thereby affecting its color whether before or after harvest.
8.A licensed practical or registered nurse employed
by a person licensed pursuant to chapter 7, 11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title
from assisting in the delivery of drugs and devices to patients, in accordance
with chapter 7, 11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title.
9.The use of any mechanical device or vending machine
in connection with the sale of any nonprescription drug, including proprietary
and patent medicine. The board may adopt rules to prescribe conditions under
which nonprescription drugs may be dispensed pursuant to this paragraph.
B.A person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 7,
11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title and who employs a licensed practical or
registered nurse who in the course of employment assists in the delivery of
drugs and devices is responsible for the dispensing process.
C.Pursuant to a prescription order written by a
physician for the physician's patients and dispensed by a licensed pharmacist,
a physical therapist licensed pursuant to chapter 19 of this title, an
occupational therapist licensed pursuant to chapter 34 of this title or an
athletic trainer licensed pursuant to chapter 41 of this title may procure,
store and administer nonscheduled legend and topical antiinflammatories
and topical anesthetics for use in phonophoresis and iontophoresis procedures
and within the scope of practice of physical or occupational therapy or
athletic training.
D.A public health facility operated by this state
or a county and a qualifying community health center may dispense medication or
devices to patients at no cost without providing a written prescription if the
public health facility or the qualifying community health center meets all
storage, labeling, safety and record keeping rules adopted by the board of
pharmacy.
E.A person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 7,
11, 13, 14, 17 or 29 of this title, who is practicing at a public health
facility or a qualifying community health center and who is involved in the
dispensing of medication or devices only at a facility or center, whether for a
charge or at no cost, shall register to dispense with the appropriate licensing
board but is exempt from paying registration fees.
F.For the purposes of this section,
"qualifying community health center" means a primary care clinic that
is recognized as nonprofit under section 501(c)(3) of the United States
internal revenue code and whose board of directors includes patients of the
center and residents of the center's service area. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Current nursing certificate holders; licensure; renewal;
Arizona state board of nursing membership
A.A nurse practitioner, certified nurse midwife,
clinical nurse specialist or certified registered nurse anesthetist who is
currently certified but has not passed a national certification exam or who has
not completed a graduate-level education program may receive or renew a license
if:
1.The nurse practitioner or certified nurse midwife
received certification from the Arizona state board of nursing before January
1, 2005 or was certified or licensed in that role before January 1, 2001 in any
United States jurisdiction and has continuously maintained that licensure or
certification.
2.The clinical nurse specialist or certified
registered nurse anesthetist received certification from the Arizona state board
of nursing before July 1, 2017 or was certified or licensed in that role before
July 1, 2017 in any United States jurisdiction and has continuously maintained
that licensure or certification.
B.A nurse practitioner or certified nurse midwife
who has not passed a national certification examination may renew prescribing
privileges if the prescribing privileges were granted before July 1, 2017.
C.A nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist
who holds a current certificate issued by the Arizona state board of nursing
and who is a member of the board may continue to serve on the board for the
remainder of the person's term notwithstanding the requirement that the
advanced practice registered nurse member of the board be licensed for at least
three years preceding appointment to the board.
Sec.17.Arizona state board of nursing; rulemaking exemption;
consultation
A.For the purposes of implementing this act, the
Arizona state board of nursing is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of
title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, until July 1, 2017, except that
the board shall provide public notice and an opportunity for public comment on
proposed rules at least sixty days before the rules are amended or adopted.
B.For purposes of
the consultation required by section 321921, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by this act, the Arizona state board of nursing shall provide to the
Arizona state board of pharmacy, the Arizona medical board and the Arizona
board of osteopathic examiners in medicine and surgery a draft of the proposed
rules at least sixty days before any noticed opportunity for public comment
under subsection A of this section.
Sec.18.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed legislation
conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this act for
consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular session.
Sec.19.Effective date
This act is effective from and after June 30, 2017.

