







REFERENCE TITLE: board of nursing; licensure; complaints







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1444









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

amending section
321606, arizona revised statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 262,
section 4; Amending sections 321632 and 321664, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to the Arizona state board of nursing.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 4, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1606.Powers and duties of board
A.The board may:
1.Adopt and revise rules necessary to carry into
effect this chapter.
2.Publish advisory opinions regarding registered
and practical nursing practice and nursing education.
3.Issue limited licenses or certificates if it
determines that an applicant or licensee cannot function safely in a specific
setting or within the full scope of practice.
4.Refer criminal violations of this chapter to the
appropriate law enforcement agency.
5.Establish a confidential program for the
monitoring of licensees who are chemically dependent and who enroll in
rehabilitation programs that meet the criteria established by the
board.The board may take further action if the licensee refuses to
enter into a stipulated agreement or fails to comply with its
terms.In order to protect the public health and safety, the
confidentiality requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the licensee
does not comply with the stipulated agreement.
6.On the applicant's or regulated party's request,
establish a payment schedule with the applicant or regulated party.
7.Provide education regarding board functions.
8.Collect or assist in the collection of workforce
data.
9.Adopt rules for conducting pilot programs
consistent with public safety for innovative applications in nursing practice,
education and regulation.
10.Grant retirement status on request to retired
nurses who are or were licensed under this chapter, who have no open complaint
or investigation pending against them and who are not subject to discipline.
11.Accept and spend federal monies and private
grants, gifts, contributions and devises to assist in carrying out the purposes
of this chapter. These monies do not revert to the state general fund at the
end of the fiscal year.
B.The board shall:
1.Approve regulated training and educational
programs that meet the requirements of this chapter and rules adopted by the
board.
2.By rule, establish approval and reapproval
processes for nursing and nursing assistant training programs that meet the
requirements of this chapter and board rules.
3.Prepare and maintain a list of approved nursing
programs for the preparation of registered and practical nurses whose graduates
are eligible for licensing under this chapter as registered nurses or as
practical nurses if they satisfy the other requirements of this chapter and
board rules.
4.Examine qualified registered and practical nurse
applicants.
5.License and renew the licenses of qualified
registered and practical nurse applicants and licensed nursing assistants who
are not qualified to be licensed by the executive director.
6.Adopt a seal, which the executive director shall
keep.
7.Keep a record of all proceedings.
8.For proper cause, deny or rescind approval of a
regulated training or educational program for failure to comply with this
chapter or the rules of the board.
9.Adopt rules for the approval of credential
evaluation services that evaluate the qualifications of applicants who
graduated from an international nursing program.
10.Determine and administer appropriate disciplinary
action against all regulated parties who are found guilty of violating this
chapter or rules adopted by the board.
11.Perform functions necessary to carry out the
requirements of nursing assistant and nurse aide training and competency evaluation
program as set forth in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1987 (P.L. 100203;
101 Stat. 1330), as amended by the medicare catastrophic coverage act of 1988
(P.L. 100360; 102 Stat. 683).These functions shall include:
(a)Testing and registration of certified nursing
assistants.
(b)Testing and licensing of licensed nursing
assistants.
(c)Maintaining a list of board approved boardapproved training programs.
(d)Maintaining a registry of nursing assistants for
all certified nursing assistants and licensed nursing assistants.
(e)Assessing fees.
12.Adopt rules establishing those acts that may be
performed by a registered nurse practitioner in collaboration with a licensed
physician, except that the board does not have authority to decide scope of
practice relating to abortion as defined in section 362151.
13.Adopt rules establishing educational
requirements for the certification of school nurses.
14.Publish copies of board rules and distribute
these copies on request.
15.Require each applicant for initial licensure or
certification to submit a full set of fingerprints to the board for the purpose
of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750
and Public Law 92544.The department of public safety may
exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.
16.except
for of a licensee who has been convicted of a felony pursuant to section 13604,
revoke a license of a person, revoke the multistate licensure privilege
of a person pursuant to section 321669 or not issue a renewal license or renewal to an applicant who has one or more felony
convictions and who has not received an absolute discharge from the sentences
for all felony convictions five or more years before the date of filing an
application pursuant to this chapter to a person who has one or more felony convictions
for three years from the date of the felony convictions.
17.Establish standards for approving and
reapproving nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist programs and
provide for surveys of nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist
programs as it deems necessary.
18.Provide the licensing authorities of health care
institutions, facilities and homes any information the board receives regarding
practices that place a patient's health at risk.
19.Limit the multistate licensure privilege of any
person who holds or applies for a license in this state pursuant to section 321668.
20.Adopt rules to establish competency standards
for obtaining and maintaining a license.
21.Adopt rules for the qualification and
certification of clinical nurse specialists.
22.Adopt rules for approval and reapproval of
refresher courses for nurses who are not currently practicing.
23.Maintain a list of approved medication assistant
training programs.
24.Test and certify medication assistants.
25.Maintain a registry and disciplinary record of
medication assistants who are certified pursuant to this chapter.
C.The board may conduct an investigation on receipt
of information that indicates that a person or regulated party may have
violated this chapter or a rule adopted pursuant to this
chapter.Following the investigation, the board may take
disciplinary action pursuant to this chapter.
D.The board may limit, revoke or suspend the
privilege of a nurse to practice in this state granted pursuant to section 321668.
E.Failure to comply with any final order of the
board, including an order of censure or probation, is cause for suspension or
revocation of a license or a certificate.
F.The president or a member of the board designated
by the president may administer oaths in transacting the business of the board.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1632, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1632.Qualifications of registered nurse; application for
license
An applicant for a license to practice as a registered nurse
shall file with the board a verified written application accompanied by the
prescribed fee and shall submit satisfactory proof that the applicant:
1.The
applicant has completed satisfactorily the basic curriculum in an
approved registered nursing program and holds a diploma or degree from that
program.
2.The
applicant, if convicted of one or more felonies, has received an
absolute discharge from the sentences for all felony convictions five or more
years before the date of filing an application pursuant to this chapter.
3.If the
applicant has been convicted of a felony pursuant to section 13604, the
court has entered judgment of conviction for a class 1 misdemeanor.
END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-1664, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1664.Investigation; hearing; notice
A.In connection with an investigation, the board or
its duly authorized agents or employees may obtain any documents, reports,
records, papers, books and materials, including hospital records, medical staff
records and medical staff review committee records, or any other physical
evidence that indicates that a person or regulated party may have violated this
chapter or a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter:
1.By entering the premises, at any reasonable time,
and inspecting and copying materials in the possession of a regulated party
that relate to nursing competence, unprofessional conduct or mental or physical
ability of a licensee to safely practice nursing.
2.By issuing a subpoena under the board's seal to
require the attendance and testimony of witnesses or to demand the production
for examination or copying of documents or any other physical evidence. Within
five days after a person is served with a subpoena, that person may petition the board to
revoke, limit or modify the subpoena. The board shall do so if in its opinion
the evidence required does not relate to unlawful practices covered by this
chapter, is not relevant to the charge that is the subject matter of the
hearing or investigation or does not describe with sufficient particularity the
physical evidence whose production is required.
3.By submitting a written request for the
information.
4.In the case of an applicant's or a regulated
party's personal medical records, as defined in section 122291, by any
means permitted by this section if the board either:
(a)Obtains from the applicant or regulated party,
or the health care decision maker of the applicant or regulated party, a
written authorization that satisfies the requirements of title 12, chapter 13,
article 7.1.
(b)Reasonably believes that the records relate to
information already in the board's possession regarding the competence,
unprofessional conduct or mental or physical ability of the applicant or
regulated party as it pertains to safe practice.If the board adopts
a substantive policy statement pursuant to section 411091, it may
authorize the executive director, or a designee in the absence of the executive
director, to make the determination of reasonable belief.
B.A regulated party and a health care institution
as defined in section 36401 shall, and any other person may, report to
the board any information the licensee, certificate holder, health care institution
or individual may have that appears to show that a regulated party or applicant
is, was or may be a threat to the public health or safety.
C.The board retains jurisdiction to proceed with an
investigation or a disciplinary proceeding against a regulated party whose
license or certificate expired not more than five years before the board
initiates the investigation.
D.Any regulated party, health care institution or
other person that reports or provides information to the board in good faith is
not subject to civil liability. If requested the board shall not disclose the
name of the reporter unless the information is essential to proceedings
conducted pursuant to this section.
E.Any regulated party or person who is subject to
an investigation may obtain representation by counsel.
F.On determination of reasonable cause, the board, or if delegated by
the board the executive director, may require a licensee, certificate holder or
applicant to undergo at the expense of the licensee, certificate holder or
applicant any combination of mental, physical or psychological examinations,
assessments or skills evaluations necessary to determine the person's
competence or ability to practice safely. These examinations may include
bodily fluid testing and other examinations known to detect the presence of
alcohol or drugs. If the executive director orders the licensee, applicant or
certificate holder to undertake an examination, assessment or evaluation
pursuant to this subsection, and the licensee, certificate holder or applicant
fails to affirm to the board in writing within fifteen days after receipt of
the notice of the order that the licensee, certificate holder or applicant
intends to comply with the order, the executive director shall refer the matter
to the board to permit the board to determine whether to issue an order
pursuant to this subsection. At each regular meeting of the board the
executive director shall report to the board data concerning orders issued by
the executive director pursuant to this subsection since the last regular
meeting of the board and any other data requested by the board.
G.After
completing its investigation, the board shall provide the investigative report
to the licensee at least ten days before the board meets to determine whether
any action will be taken against the licensee.
G.H.If
after completing its investigation the board finds that the information
provided pursuant to this section is not of sufficient seriousness to merit
disciplinary action against the regulated party or applicant, it may take
either of the following actions:
1.Dismiss if in the opinion of the board the
information is without merit.
2.File a letter of concern if in the opinion of the
board there is insufficient evidence to support disciplinary action against the
regulated party or applicant but sufficient evidence for the board to notify
the regulated party or applicant of its concern.
H.I.Except
as provided pursuant to section 321663, subsection F and subsection I J of this section, if the investigation in
the opinion of the board reveals reasonable grounds to support the charge, the
regulated party is entitled to an administrative hearing pursuant to title 41,
chapter 6, article 10. If notice of the hearing is served by certified mail,
service is complete on the date the notice is placed in the mail.
I.J.A
regulated party shall respond in writing to the board within thirty days after
notice of the hearing is served as prescribed in subsection H i
of this section. The board may consider a regulated party's
failure to respond within this time as an admission by default to the
allegations stated in the complaint. The board may then take disciplinary
actions allowed by this chapter without conducting a hearing.
J.K.An
administrative law judge or a panel of board members may conduct hearings
pursuant to this section.
K.L.In
any matters pending before it, the board may issue subpoenas under its seal to
compel the attendance of witnesses. 
L.M.Patient
records, including clinical records, medical reports, laboratory statements and
reports, any file, film, other report or oral statement relating to diagnostic
findings or treatment of patients, any information from which a patient or a
patient's family might be identified or information received and records kept
by the board as a result of the investigation procedure outlined in this
chapter are not available to the public and are not subject to discovery in
civil or criminal proceedings.
M.N.Hospital
records, medical staff records, medical staff review committee records,
testimony concerning these records and proceedings related to the creation of
these records shall not be available to the public. They shall be kept
confidential by the board and shall be subject to the same provisions
concerning discovery and use in legal actions as are the original records in
the possession and control of hospitals, their medical staffs and their medical
staff review committees. The board shall use these records and testimony
during the course of investigations and proceedings pursuant to this chapter.
N.O.If
the regulated party is found to have committed an act of unprofessional conduct
or to have violated this chapter or a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter,
the board may take disciplinary action.
O.P.The
board may subsequently issue a denied license or certificate and may reissue a
revoked or voluntarily surrendered license or certificate.
P.Q.On
application by the board to any superior court judge, a person who without just
cause fails to comply with a subpoena issued pursuant to this section may be
ordered by the judge to comply with the subpoena and punished by the court for
failing to comply. Subpoenas shall be served by regular or certified mail or
in the manner required by the Arizona rules of civil procedure.
Q.R.The
board may share investigative information that is confidential under
subsections L M and M
N of this section with other state, federal and international
health care agencies and with state, federal and international law enforcement
authorities if the recipient is subject to confidentiality requirements similar
to those established by this section. A disclosure made by the board pursuant
to this subsection is not a waiver of the confidentiality requirements
established by this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Effective date
Section 321606, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
Laws 2015, chapter 262, section 4 and this act, is effective from and after June
30, 2016.

