







REFERENCE TITLE: sexual assault victim advocates;
  privilege







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1410









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Pancrazi, Quezada, Sherwood: Contreras, Dalessandro,
  Driggs, Farley, Shooter





AN ACT

AMENDING TITLE
12, CHAPTER 13, ARTICLE 4, ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES, BY ADDING SECTION 122240;
AMENDING SECTION 13-3620, ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES; RELATING TO SEXUAL ASSAULT.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 12, chapter 13, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 12-2240, to read:
START_STATUTE12-2240.Sexual assault victim advocate; privilege; exception;
training; supervision; definition
A.In a
civil action, a sexual assault victim advocate shall not be examined as to any
communication made by the sexual assault victim to the sexual assault victim
advocate.
B.This
section does not apply to:
1.A civil
action brought pursuant to title 36, chapter 37, relating to the civil
commitment of sexually violent persons.
2.A sexual
assault victim advocate's duty to report pursuant to section 13-3620.
C.Unless
the sexual assault program or service provider has immunity under other
provisions of law, the communication is not privileged if the victim advocate
knows or should have known that the victim will give or has given perjurious
statements or statements that would tend to disprove the existence of sexual
assault.
D.A party
to an action may make a motion for disclosure of privileged information under
this section and, if the court finds reasonable cause, the court shall hold a
hearing in camera as to whether the privilege should apply.
E.To
qualify for the privilege prescribed in this section, a sexual assault victim
advocate must have at least thirty hours of training in assisting victims of
sexual assault.A portion of this training must include an explanation
of privileged communication and the reporting requirements prescribed in
section 13-3620. The training may be provided by the sexual assault program or
service provider or by an outside agency that issues a certificate of
completion.The records custodian of the sexual assault program or
service provider must maintain the training documents.
F.A sexual
assault victim advocate who is a volunteer shall perform all activities under
qualified supervision.
G.For the purposes of this section, "sexual
assault victim advocate" means a person who is an employee or volunteer at
a sexual assault program or service provider for victims of sexual assault and
who meets the training requirements of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-3620, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3620.Duty to report abuse, physical injury, neglect and denial
or deprivation of medical or surgical care or nourishment of minors; medical
records; exception; violation; classification; definitions
A.Any person who reasonably believes that a minor
is or has been the victim of physical injury, abuse, child abuse, a reportable
offense or neglect that appears to have been inflicted on the minor by other
than accidental means or that is not explained by the available medical history
as being accidental in nature or who reasonably believes there has been a
denial or deprivation of necessary medical treatment or surgical care or
nourishment with the intent to cause or allow the death of an infant who is
protected under section 362281 shall immediately report or cause reports
to be made of this information to a peace officer, to the department of child
safety or to a tribal law enforcement or social services agency for any Indian
minor who resides on an Indian reservation, except if the report concerns a
person who does not have care, custody or control of the minor, the report
shall be made to a peace officer only.A member of the clergy, a
christian science practitioner or a priest who has received a confidential
communication or a confession in that person's role as a member of the clergy,
as a christian science practitioner or as a priest in the course of the discipline
enjoined by the church to which the member of the clergy, the christian science
practitioner or the priest belongs may withhold reporting of the communication
or confession if the member of the clergy, the christian science practitioner
or the priest determines that it is reasonable and necessary within the
concepts of the religion. This exemption applies only to the communication or
confession and not to personal observations the member of the clergy, the
christian science practitioner or the priest may otherwise make of the
minor.For the purposes of this subsection, "person"
means:
1.Any physician, physician's assistant,
optometrist, dentist, osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist, behavioral health
professional, nurse, psychologist, counselor or social worker who develops the
reasonable belief in the course of treating a patient.
2.Any peace officer, child welfare investigator,
child safety worker, member of the clergy, priest or christian science
practitioner.
3.The parent, stepparent or guardian of the minor.
4.School personnel, or
domestic violence victim advocates or
sexual assault victim advocates who develop the reasonable belief
in the course of their employment.
5.Any other person who has responsibility for the
care or treatment of the minor.
B.A report is not required under this section
either:
1.For conduct prescribed by sections 131404
and 131405 if the conduct involves only minors who are fourteen,
fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years of age and there is nothing to indicate
that the conduct is other than consensual.
2.If a minor is of elementary school age, the
physical injury occurs accidentally in the course of typical playground
activity during a school day, occurs on the premises of the school that the
minor attends and is reported to the legal parent or guardian of the minor and
the school maintains a written record of the incident.
C.If a physician,
psychologist or behavioral health professional receives a statement from a
person other than a parent, stepparent, guardian or custodian of the minor
during the course of providing sex offender treatment that is not court ordered
or that does not occur while the offender is incarcerated in the state
department of corrections or the department of juvenile corrections, the physician,
psychologist or behavioral health professional may withhold the reporting of
that statement if the physician, psychologist or behavioral health professional
determines it is reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the
treatment.
D.Reports shall be made immediately either
electronically or by telephone.The reports shall contain the
following information, if known:
1.The names and addresses of the minor and the
minor's parents or the person or persons having custody of the minor.
2.The minor's age and the nature and extent of the
minor's abuse, child abuse, physical injury or neglect, including any evidence
of previous abuse, child abuse, physical injury or neglect.
3.Any other information that the person believes
might be helpful in establishing the cause of the abuse, child abuse, physical
injury or neglect.
E.A health care professional who is regulated
pursuant to title 32 and who, after a routine newborn physical assessment of a
newborn infant's health status or following notification of positive toxicology
screens of a newborn infant, reasonably believes that the newborn infant may be
affected by the presence of alcohol or a drug listed in section 133401
shall immediately report this information, or cause a report to be made, to the
department of child safety. For the purposes of this subsection, "newborn
infant" means a newborn infant who is under thirty days of age.
F.Any person other than one required to report or
cause reports to be made under subsection A of this section who reasonably
believes that a minor is or has been a victim of abuse, child abuse, physical
injury, a reportable offense or neglect may report the information to a peace
officer or to the department of child safety, except if the report concerns a
person who does not have care, custody or control of the minor, the report
shall be made to a peace officer only.
G.A person who has custody or control of medical
records of a minor for whom a report is required or authorized under this
section shall make the records, or a copy of the records, available to a peace
officer, child welfare investigator or child safety worker investigating the
minor's neglect, child abuse, physical injury or abuse on written request for
the records signed by the peace officer, child welfare investigator or child
safety worker.Records disclosed pursuant to this subsection are
confidential and may be used only in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
investigation resulting from a report required or authorized under this
section.
H.When reports are
received by a peace officer, the officer shall immediately notify the
department of child safety.Notwithstanding any other statute, when
the department receives these reports, it shall immediately notify a peace
officer in the appropriate jurisdiction.
I.Any person who is required to receive reports
pursuant to subsection A of this section may take or cause to be taken
photographs of the minor and the vicinity involved.Medical
examinations of the involved minor may be performed.
J.A person who furnishes a report, information or
records required or authorized under this section, or a person who participates
in a judicial or administrative proceeding or investigation resulting from a
report, information or records required or authorized under this section, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability by reason of that action unless the
person acted with malice or unless the person has been charged with or is
suspected of abusing or neglecting the child or children in question.
K.Except for the attorney client privilege or the
privilege under subsection L of this section, no privilege applies to any:
1.Civil or criminal litigation or administrative
proceeding in which a minor's neglect, dependency, abuse, child abuse, physical
injury or abandonment is an issue.
2.Judicial or administrative proceeding resulting
from a report, information or records submitted pursuant to this section.
3.Investigation of a minor's child abuse, physical
injury, neglect or abuse conducted by a peace officer or the department of
child safety.
L.In any civil or criminal litigation in which a
child's neglect, dependency, physical injury, abuse, child abuse or abandonment
is an issue, a member of the clergy, a christian science practitioner or a
priest shall not, without his consent, be examined as a witness concerning any
confession made to him in his role as a member of the clergy, a christian
science practitioner or a priest in the course of the discipline enjoined by
the church to which he belongs. This subsection does not discharge a member of
the clergy, a christian science practitioner or a priest from the duty to
report pursuant to subsection A of this section.
M.If psychiatric records are requested pursuant to
subsection G of this section, the custodian of the records shall notify the
attending psychiatrist, who may excise from the records, before they are made
available:
1.Personal information about individuals other than
the patient.
2.Information regarding specific diagnosis or
treatment of a psychiatric condition, if the attending psychiatrist certifies
in writing that release of the information would be detrimental to the
patient's health or treatment.
N.If
any portion of a psychiatric record is excised pursuant to subsection M of this
section, a court, on application of a peace officer, child welfare investigator
or child safety worker, may order that the entire record or any portion of the
record that contains information relevant to the reported abuse, child abuse, physical
injury or neglect be made available to the peace officer, child welfare
investigator or child safety worker
investigating the abuse, child abuse, physical injury or neglect.
O.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor, except if the failure to report involves a reportable
offense, the person is guilty of a class 6 felony.
P.For the purposes of this section:
1."Abuse" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 8201.
2."Child abuse" means child abuse
pursuant to section 133623.
3."Neglect" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 8201.
4."Reportable offense" means any of the
following:
(a)Any offense listed in chapters 14 and 35.1 of
this title or section 133506.01.
(b)Surreptitious photographing, videotaping,
filming or digitally recording or viewing a minor pursuant to section 133019.
(c)Child prostitution pursuant to section 133212.
(d)Incest pursuant to section 133608.
(e)Unlawful mutilation pursuant to section 131214.
END_STATUTE

