







REFERENCE TITLE: board of technical registration; omnibus







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1422









Introduced by
Senators
  Yee, Cajero Bedford; Representatives Fann, Petersen: Senators Allen S, Bradley,
  Burges, Donahue, Pancrazi, Shooter; Representatives Borrelli, Lawrence,
  Livingston, Norgaard, Rivero, Shope





AN ACT

amending sections
32-101 and 32-102, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 32-108, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending sections 32-111, 32-122, 32-122.01, 32-122.02,
32-123, 32-127, 32-129 and 32-152, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
state board of technical registration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-101.Purpose; definitions
A.The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the
safety, health and welfare of the public through the promulgation and
enforcement of standards of qualification for those individuals who are registered or certified and seeking
registration or certification pursuant to this chapter.
B.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Advertising" includes business cards,
signs or letterhead provided by a person to the public.
2."Alarm" or "alarm system":
(a)Means any mechanical or electrical device that
is designed to emit an audible alarm or transmit a signal or message if activated
and that is used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building or other
facility or alert other persons of the occurrence of a medical emergency or the
commission of an unlawful act against a person or in a building or other
facility.
(b)Includes a silent, panic, holdup, robbery,
duress, burglary, medical alert or proprietor alarm that requires emergency
personnel to respond.
(c)Does not include a telephone call diverter or a
system that is designed to report environmental and other occurrences and that
is not designed or used to alert or cause other persons to alert public safety
personnel.
3."Alarm agent":
(a)Means a person, whether an employee, an
independent contractor or otherwise, who acts on behalf of an alarm business
and who tests, maintains, services, repairs, sells, rents, leases or installs
alarm systems.
(b)Does not include any action by a person that:
(i)Is performed in connection with an alarm system
located on the person's own property or the property of the person's employer.
(ii)Is acting on behalf of an alarm business whose
work duties do not include visiting the location where an alarm system
installation occurs.
4."Alarm business":
(a)Means any person who, either alone or through a
third party, engages in the business of either of the following:
(i)Providing alarm monitoring services.
(ii)Selling, leasing, renting, maintaining,
repairing or installing a nonproprietor alarm system or service.
(b)Does not include any of the following:
(i)A person or company that purchases, rents or
uses an alarm that is affixed to a motor vehicle.
(ii)A person who owns or conducts a business of
selling, leasing, renting, installing, maintaining or monitoring an alarm that
is affixed to a motor vehicle.
(iii)A person who installs a nonmonitored
proprietor alarm for a business that the person owns, is employed by or
manages.
(iv)The installation or monitoring of fire alarm
systems.
(v)An alarm system that is operated by a city or
town.
5."Alarm subscriber" means any person
who:
(a)Leases, rents or purchases any monitored alarm
system or service from an alarm business.
(b)Leases or rents an alarm system.
(c)Contracts with an alarm business for alarm
monitoring, installation, repair or maintenance services.
6."Architect" means a person who, by
reason of knowledge of the mathematical and physical sciences and the
principles of architecture and architectural engineering acquired by
professional education and practical experience, is qualified to engage in the
practice of architecture as attested by
registration as an architect and is registered as an architect pursuant to this chapter.
7."Architectintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional architect who is a
graduate of a school approved by the board or who has five years or more of
education or experience, or both, in architectural work which meets standards
specified by the board in its rules. In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the architectintraining examination.
8.7."Architectural
practice" means any professional service or creative work requiring
architectural education, training and experience, and the application of the
mathematical and physical sciences and the principles of architecture and
architectural engineering to such professional services or creative work as
consultation, evaluation, design and review of construction for conformance
with contract documents and design, in connection with any building, planning
or site development.A person shall be deemed to practice or offer
to practice architecture who in any manner represents that the person is an
architect, or is able
to perform any architectural service or other services recognized by
educational authorities as architecture.
9.8."Assayer"
means a person who analyzes metals, ores, minerals, or alloys in order to ascertain the
quantity of gold or silver or any other substance present in them.A
person employed on a fulltime basis as an assayer by an employer engaged
in the business of developing, mining or treating ores or other minerals shall
not be deemed to be engaged in assaying practice for the purposes of this
chapter if the person engages in assaying practice exclusively for and as an
employee of such employer and does not represent that the person is available
and is not represented as being available to perform any assaying services for
anyone other than the person's employer.
10.9."Assayerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional assayer who is a graduate
of a school and curriculum approved by the board or who has four years or more
of education or experience, or both, in assaying work which that
meets standards specified by the board in its rules. In
addition, the candidate shall have passed the assayerintraining examination.
11.10."Assaying
practice" means any professional service or work requiring assaying
education, training and experience and the application of special knowledge of
the mineral sciences to such service or work as consultation and the evaluation
of minerals.A person is deemed to practice or offer to practice
assaying who in any manner represents that the person is an assayer or is able
to perform any assaying service or other services recognized by educational
authorities as assaying.
12.11."Board"
means the state board of technical registration.
13.12."Certified
remediation specialist" means a person who has been certified by the board
to perform, supervise and review environmental remediations if the use of a
certified remediation specialist is specifically authorized by title 49 and
rules adopted pursuant to title 49.
14.13."Controlling
person":
(a)Means a person who is designated by an alarm
business.
(b)Does not include an alarm agent.
15.14."Drug
laboratory site remediation firm" means a firm that is licensed by the
registrar of contractors pursuant to chapter 10 of this title and that performs
remediation of residual contamination from the manufacture of methamphetamine,
ecstasy or LSD or the storage of chemicals or equipment used in manufacturing
methamphetamine, ecstasy or LSD. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Ecstasy" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the
precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in
the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(b)"LSD" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the precursor
chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in the
unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(c)"Methamphetamine" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and includes any of the
precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances or equipment used in
the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
16.15."Engineer"
means a person who, by reason of special knowledge of the mathematical and
physical sciences and the principles and methods of engineering analysis and
design acquired by professional education and practical experience, is
qualified to practice engineering as
attested by registration as a professional engineer and is registered as a professional engineer
pursuant to this chapter.
17.16."Engineering
practice" means any professional service or creative work requiring
engineering education, training and experience and the application of special
knowledge of the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences to such
professional services or creative work as consultation, research investigation,
evaluation, planning, surveying as defined in paragraph 27 26,
subdivisions (d) and (e) of this subsection, design, location, development, and
review of construction for conformance with contract documents and design, in
connection with any public or private utility, structure, building, machine,
equipment, process, work or project. Such services and work include plans and
designs relating to the location, development, mining and treatment of ore and
other minerals. A person shall be deemed to be practicing or offering to
practice engineering if the person practices any branch of the profession of
engineering, or by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or any
other manner represents that the person is a professional engineer, or is able to perform or
does perform any engineering service or other service recognized by educational
authorities as engineering. A person employed on a fulltime basis as an
engineer by an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining and
treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to be practicing
engineering for the purposes of this chapter if the person engages in the
practice of engineering exclusively for and as an employee of such employer and
does not represent that the person is available and is not represented as being
available to perform any engineering services for persons other than the
person's employer.
18.17."Engineerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional engineer who is a graduate
in an approved engineering curriculum of four years or more of a school
approved by the board or who has had
four years or more of education or experience, or both, in engineering work which that meets standards specified by the board
in its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the
engineerintraining examination.
19.18."Firm"
means any individual or partnership, corporation or other type of association,
including the association of a nonregistrant and a registrant who offers to the
public professional services regulated by the board.
20.19."Geological
practice" means any professional service or work requiring geological
education, training and experience,
and the application of special knowledge of the earth sciences to such
professional services as consultation, evaluation of mining properties,
petroleum properties and groundwater resources, professional supervision of
exploration for mineral natural resources including metallic and nonmetallic
ores, petroleum and groundwater, and the geological phases of engineering
investigations.
21.20."Geologist"
means a person, not of necessity an engineer, who by reason of special
knowledge of the earth sciences and the principles and methods of search for
and appraisal of mineral or other natural resources acquired by professional
education and practical experience is qualified to practice geology as attested
by registration as a professional geologist.A person employed on a
fulltime basis as a geologist by an employer engaged in the business of
developing, mining or treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to
be engaged in geological practice for the purposes of this chapter if the
person engages in geological practice exclusively for and as an employee of
such employer and does not represent that the person is available and is not
represented as being available to perform any geological services for persons
other than the person's employer.
22.21."Geologistintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional geologist who is a
graduate of a school approved by the boardor who has had four years or more of education or
experience, or both,in geological work which
that meets standards specified by the
boardinits rules.In addition, the candidate
shall have passed the geologistintraining examination.
23.22."Home
inspection" means a visual analysis for the purposes of providing a
professional opinion of the building, any reasonably accessible installed
components and the operation of the building's systems, including the controls
normally operated by the owner, for the following components of a residential
building of four units or less:
(a)Heating system.
(b)Cooling system.
(c)Plumbing system.
(d)Electrical system.
(e)Structural components.
(f)Foundation.
(g)Roof covering.
(h)Exterior and interior components.
(i)Site aspects as they affect the building.
(j)Pursuant to rules adopted by the board, swimming
pool and spa.
24.23."Home
inspection report" means a written report that is prepared for
compensation, that is issued after a home inspection and that clearly describes
and identifies the inspected systems, structures and components of a completed
dwelling and any visible major defects found to be in need of immediate major
repair and any recommendations for additional evaluation by appropriate
persons.
25.24."Home
inspector" means an individual who is certified pursuant to this chapter
as a home inspector and who engages in the business of performing home
inspections and writing home inspection reports.
26.25."Home
inspectorintraining" means a candidate for certification as
a home inspector who has completed a course of study approved by the board and
who is participating in a training program that complies with standards
recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and approved by
the board.
27.26."Land
surveying practice" means the performance of one or more of the following
professional services:
(a)Measurement of land to determine the position of
any monument or reference point which that marks a property line,
boundary or corner for the purpose of determining the area or description of
the land.
(b)Location, relocation, establishment,
reestablishment, setting, resetting or replacing of corner monuments or
reference points which identify land boundaries, rightsofway or
easements.
(c)Platting or plotting of lands for the purpose of
subdividing.
(d)Measurement by angles, distances and elevations
of natural or artificial features in the air, on the surface and immediate subsurface
of the earth, within underground workings and on the surface or within bodies
of water for the purpose of determining or establishing their location, size,
shape, topography, grades, contours or water surface and depths, and the
preparation and perpetuation of field note records and maps depicting these
features.
(e)Setting, resetting or replacing of points to
guide the location of new construction.
28.27."Land
surveyor" means a person who by reason of knowledge of the mathematical
and physical sciences, principles of land surveying and evidence gathering
acquired by professional education or practical experience, or both, is
qualified to practice land surveying as attested by registration as a land
surveyor.A person employed on a fulltime basis as a land
surveyor by an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining or
treating ores or other minerals shall not be deemed to be engaged in land
surveying practice for purposes of this chapter if the person engages in land
surveying practice exclusively for and as an employee of such employer and does
not represent that the person is available and is not represented as being
available to perform any land surveying services for persons other than the
person's employer.
29.28."Land
surveyorintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional land surveyor who is a graduate of a school and curriculum
approved by the board,
or who has four years or more of education or experience, or both, in land
surveying work which that meets standards specified
by the board in its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the land surveyorintraining examination.
30.29."Landscape
architect" means a person who, by reason of professional education or
practical experience, or both, is qualified to engage in the practice of
landscape architecture as attested by registration as a landscape architect.
31."Landscape
architectintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional landscape architect who is a graduate of a school approved by the
board or who has had four years or more of education or experience, or both, in
landscape architectural work which meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the landscape
architectintraining examination.
32.30."Landscape
architectural practice" means the performance of professional services
such as consultations, investigation, reconnaissance, research, planning,
design or responsible supervision in connection with the development of land
and incidental water areas where, and to the extent that, the dominant purpose
of such services is the preservation, enhancement or determination of proper
land uses, natural land features, ground cover and planting, naturalistic and aesthetic
values, the settings of and approaches to buildings, structures, facilities or
other improvements, natural drainage and the consideration and the
determination of inherent problems of the land relating to erosion, wear and
tear, light or other hazards.This practice shall include the
location and arrangement of such tangible objects and features as are
incidental and necessary to the purposes outlined in this paragraph but shall
not include the making of cadastral surveys or final land plats for official
recording or approval, nor mandatorily include planning for governmental
subdivisions.
33.31."Monitored
alarm" means a device that is designed for the detection of an entry on
any premises and that if activated generates a notification signal.
34.32."Onsite
supervisor" means the employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm
who is authorized to oversee onsite workers in the performance of their
duties.
35.33."Onsite
worker" means an employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm who
has onsite duties or who handles contaminated materials, chemicals or
contaminated equipment.
36.34."Person"
means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization.
37.35."Principal"
means an individual who is an officer of the corporation or is designated by a
firm as having full authority and responsible charge of the services offered by
the firm.
38.36."Proprietor
alarm" means any alarm or alarm system that is owned by an alarm
subscriber who has not contracted with an alarm business.
39.37."Registrant"
means a person registered or certified by the board. 
40.38."Registration"
means a registration or certification issued by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-102.Board of technical registration; vacancies; terms
A.A
the state board of
technical registration is established consisting of members who are appointed by the governor as follows:
1.Two architects.
2.Three professional engineers, one of whom is a civil engineer and two of
whom are representatives of branches of engineering other than civil
engineering and are registered in those branches pursuant to this chapter. 
3.One public member.
4.One landscape architect.
5.One geologist or assayer.
6.One land surveyor.
B.Upon
on the expiration of any
of the terms, a successor, who is qualified pursuant to subsection A, of this section shall be appointed for a full
term of three years.The governor may remove a member of the board
for misconduct, incapacity or neglect of duty.Appointment to fill a
vacancy caused other than by expiration of term shall be for the unexpired
portion of the term.
C.No member may serve more than two consecutive
terms. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 32-108, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Section 32-111, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-111.Home inspector rules and standards committee
A.A
the home inspector rules
and standards committee of the state board of technical registration is
established and consists of:
1.Three home inspectors, one of whom is a resident
of a county with a population of four hundred thousand persons or less,
appointed by the board from a list of names any home inspector organization
provides if the home inspector organization meets all of the following
criteria:
(a)Has at least forty members who are actively engaged in the practice of
home inspection in this state.
(b)Holds regular elections.
(c)Publishes bylaws.
(d)Maintains a code of ethics.
2.Two members of the board of technical
registration, including:
(a)An architect member of the board or an engineer member of the board
who is appointed by the
chairman.
(b)The public member.
B.The board may make appointments of home
inspectors to the committee from the lists provided pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 1 of this section or from others having the necessary qualifications.
C.The board
appointed boardappointed
members serve staggered three
year threeyear terms.
These members shall be home inspectors, shall each have at least five years of
experience as a home inspector and shall have passed the examination prescribed
in section 32122.02. The board by a majority vote may remove any member
for misconduct, incapacity or neglect of duty and may appoint a new member to
complete a term.
D.The committee is responsible for drafting and
recommending to the board of technical
registration:
1.Criteria for home inspector certification.
2.Standards for home inspection reports.
3.Standards for written examinations.
4.Standards for educational programs, including course of study, home inspectorintraining
programs and continuing education.
5.Rules defining conduct.
6.Recommendations for types of financial assurances
as required in section 32122.02.
7.Other rules and standards related to the practice
of home inspectors.
E.The
committee shall make its initial recommendations within six months of
appointment or the board may proceed without these recommendations. Thereafter
the committee shall make recommendations within six months of a board request
for recommendations.The committee may initiate recommendations at
any time it deems appropriate.
F.E.The
committee may participate in the investigation and review of home inspector
complaints as provided by the board.
G.F.Members
of the home inspector rules and standards committee are eligible to receive
compensation pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 1. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.Qualifications for intraining designation
A.An applicant for intraining registration designation as an architect, engineer, geologist or landscape architect land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be a graduate of a school approved by the board
or have four years or more, or if an
applicant for intraining registration as an architect, five years or more,
of education or experience, or both, in work in the profession in which
registration is sought that meets standards specified by the board in its
rules.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126,
subsection D, pass the intraining examination in the profession in which
registration is sought.
B.An applicant for intraining registration designation as an assayer or land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be a graduate of a school and curriculum approved
by the board, or have
four years or more of education or experience, or both, in work in the
profession in which registration is sought that meets standards specified by
the board in its rules.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126,
subsection D, pass the intraining examination in the profession in which
registration is sought.
C.An
applicant for intraining registration as a home inspectorintraining
shall:
1.Be of good
moral character and repute.
2.Meet the
requirements of section 32122.02, subsection A, paragraphs 1 through 7.
END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
32-122.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.01.Qualifications for professional registration
A.An applicant for
professional registration as an architect, engineer, geologist, land surveyor or landscape architect shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be actively engaged in education or experience,
or both, in the profession for which registration is sought for at least eight
years.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126, pass
the applicable intraining
and professional examinations in the profession in which registration is
sought.
B.An
applicant for professional registration as an assayer or land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good
moral character and repute.
2.Be actively
engaged in education or experience, or both, in the profession for which
registration is sought for at least six years.
3.Unless
exempt under section 32126, pass the intraining and professional
examinations in the profession in which registration is sought.
C.B.In
computing the period of active engagement required under this section, :
1.each
year of study that is satisfactorily
completed in an architectural, engineering, geological, land surveying or landscape architectural
school approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active engagement up
to a maximum of five years.One year or more of teaching
architectural, engineering, geological,
land surveying or landscape architectural subjects in a school
approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active engagement.
2.Each year
of study satisfactorily completed in an assaying or land surveying curriculum
and school approved by the board is considered equivalent to one year of active
engagement up to a maximum of four years. One year or more of teaching assaying
or land surveying or other courses approved by the board as pertinent to the
profession in which registration is sought in a school approved by the board is
equivalent to one year of active engagement.
D.C.Except
as provided in subsection E
d of this section,
experience credited by the board under this section and sections 32101,
32122 and 32126 must be attained under the direct supervision of
a professional who is satisfactory to the board and registered in this state,
another state or a foreign country in the profession in which the applicant is
seeking registration, except that up to one year's experience may be attained
under the direct supervision of a professional who is satisfactory to the board
and registered in another profession regulated under this chapter in this
state, another state or a foreign country.
E.D.By a twothirds majority
vote, the board may allow
an applicant except for an architect applicant to meet the requirements of
subsection D c of this section by crediting
comparable experience satisfactory to the board that the applicant attained
without direct supervision of a registered professional. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 32-122.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.02.Certification of home inspectors; insurance
A.An applicant for certification as a home
inspector shall:
1.Be at least eighteen years of age.
2.Be of good moral character and repute.
3.Have passed within two years preceding
application, or within five years
preceding application if the application is made by December 31, 2002, a
written examination that is approved by the board and that meets the competency
standards recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and
adopted by the board.
4.Have passed a course of study and a home inspectorintraining
program that meets the standards recommended by the home inspector rules and
standards committee and approved by the board.
5.Pay a fee as determined by the board and shall
submit a full set of fingerprints to the board for the purpose of obtaining a
state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and
Public Law 92544. The department of public safety may exchange this
fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation. Any documents and
information relating to the state and federal criminal records check required
by this section are not public records.
6.Not have had a certificate denied or revoked
pursuant to this chapter within one year immediately preceding the application.
7.Have received an absolute discharge from sentence
at least five years before the application if the person has been convicted of
one or more felonies, provided the board determines the applicant is of good
moral character and repute.
8.Provide evidence of the applicant's ability to
obtain financial assurance as provided by subsection B of this section.
B.Within sixty days after certification and before any feebased home
inspection is performed, a home inspector certified pursuant to
this chapter shall file one of the following financial assurances pursuant to
rules recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and
adopted by the board:
1.Errors and omissions insurance for negligent acts
committed in the course of a home inspection in an amount of two hundred
thousand dollars in the aggregate and one hundred thousand dollars per
occurrence.
2.A bond that
is retroactive to the certification date in the amount of twentyfive
thousand dollars or proof that minimum net assets have a value of at least
twentyfive thousand dollars.
3.A financial
assurance mechanism with a value of at least twentyfive thousand dollars
recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and approved by
the board.
C.If a home inspector loses or otherwise fails to
maintain a required financial assurance,
the certification shall be automatically suspended and shall be reinstated if a
financial assurance is obtained within ninety days. If a financial assurance is
not obtained within ninety days,
the certification shall be automatically revoked.
D.A home inspector is subject to this chapter and
rules adopted pursuant to this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-123, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-123.Application for registration and certification; denial;
hearing
A.A person desiring to practice any board-regulated
profession or occupation shall apply for registration or certification on a
form prescribed by the board, subscribed under penalty of perjury and
accompanied by the appropriate application fee prescribed by the
board.If the evidence submitted satisfies the board that the
applicant is fully qualified to practice the profession or occupation for which
registration or certification is asked, the board or the executive director as
authorized by the board shall grant the applicant a certificate of registration
or certification, signed by the chairman and secretary and attested by the official
seal.If the applicant seeks registration as a professional
engineer, the certificate of registration shall list the proficiency
designation in the branch of engineering in which the applicant has
demonstrated proficiency.
B.A registered professional engineer who desires to
practice land surveying shall apply for professional registration as a land
surveyor and satisfy the requirements set forth in section 32122.01, subsection B.
C.If in the judgment of the board the applicant has
not furnished satisfactory evidence of qualifications for registration or
certification, it may require additional data or may require the applicant to
submit to an additional oral or written examination specified by the board in
its rules.
D.An applicant whose application is denied may
request a formal hearing pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10. If the
application is granted after a formal hearing, the application fee shall be
returned. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 32-127, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-127.Renewal of certification or registration; penalty fee;
cancellation; inactive status; renewal fees; home inspector exam requirement
A.The board shall establish a system for renewing
certification or registration.
B.Except as provided in section 32-4301,
certificates of registration or certification are invalid after their
expiration date unless renewed by payment of the required renewal
fee.If the renewal fee is not paid prior to the expiration date, it
shall be accompanied by a penalty fee equal to onesixth of the renewal
fee for each year or fraction of a year of delinquency.
C.The board shall cancel a certificate of registration
or certification if it the registration or certification has
remained invalid for at least
one renewal period.and shall require a new application,
accompanied by the application fee for reregistration or recertification. before the board may issue a valid
registration or certification:
1.If the
registration or certification has been invalid for less than five years or has
been invalid for at least five years but the person has practiced as a
licensed, certified or registered professional in that profession in another
jurisdiction for the five years immediately before the date of the person's
application with the board:
(a)The person shall apply as a new
candidate and pay the application fee.
(b)The person is not required to
take and pass the applicable professional examination.
2.If the
registration or certification has been invalid for at least five years and the
person has not practiced as a licensed, certified or registered professional in
that profession in any other jurisdiction for the five years immediately before
the date of the person's application with the board, the person shall apply as
a new candidate, pay the application fee and take and pass the professional
examination.
D.A registrant shall not practice, offer to
practice or advertise if the certificate of registration or the certification
is inactive or invalid.
E.A registrant who retires from the active practice
of any board regulated boardregulated profession
or occupation or who is not currently practicing that board regulated boardregulated profession or occupation
in this state may request that the board place the registrant's certificate of
registration or certification on inactive status. The registrant shall submit
the request in writing to the board.
F.If the board has invalidated, pursuant to
subsection B of this section, the certificate of registration of a registrant
who seeks to place the certificate of registration on inactive status, the
registrant shall submit all penalty fees that are due with the registrant's
application for inactive status.
G.A registrant shall not place the registrant's
certificate of registration on inactive status if the person's certificate of
registration has been canceled by the board pursuant to subsection C of this
section.
H.A registrant who holds an inactive certificate of
registration may apply to the board to reactivate the certificate of
registration. The board shall reactivate an inactive certificate of
registration if the registrant submits a completed application on a form
prescribed by the board and meets the qualifications for professional
registration set forth in section 32122.01.A registrant who
seeks reactivation of the registrant's certificate of registration and who has
not been engaged in the profession in which the registrant seeks reactivation
for the five years immediately preceding the date of the application for
reactivation shall take the applicable professional examination.
I.The board shall establish the renewal fee for
each certificate or registration issued pursuant to this chapter.
J.The board
may not renew the registration of a home inspectorintraining if
the registrant has not passed within two years preceding renewal application a
written examination approved by the board pursuant to section 32122.02,
subsection A, paragraph 3.
J.notwithstanding
subsection c of this section, A home inspector who has had a certification
canceled pursuant to subsection C of this section shall apply as a new
candidate and pay the application fee. If the applicant has not taken and
passed the boardapproved national examination within the two years
immediately preceding the date of application, the applicant shall take and
pass the examination for certification. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 32-129, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-129.Confidentiality
A.Examination material, file records of examination
grading and performance, transcripts of educational institutions, letters of
inquiry and reference concerning applicants and board inquiry forms concerning
applicants are confidential and are not subject to inspection pursuant to title
39, chapter 1, article 2.
B.Investigation files of any investigation are
confidential and are not subject to inspection pursuant to title 39, chapter 1,
article 2 until the matter is final, a hearing notice is issued pursuant to
title 41, chapter 6, article 10 or the matter is settled by consent
order.However, the registrant shall be informed of the investigation and have access to the complaint and investigative
assessments and the public may obtain information that an
investigation is being conducted and of its general nature.
C.Informal conferences held by advisory committees
are confidential and are not open to the public.All information,
including any minutes or reports created or obtained pursuant to an informal
conference, is confidential until the matter is final, a hearing notice is issued
pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10 or the matter is settled by consent
order. The board may discuss matters that are being reviewed by an advisory
committee in open session but may not introduce confidential documents into
public board records. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 32-152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-152.Record documents; definition
A.If a person or firm that is registered or
certified by the board is required to provide as built plans record documents for improvements or grading,
and the plans show changes during the construction process, the following
apply:
1.If the registered or certified professional
provided construction phase services on the project that include supervision of
the construction of engineering structures, the plans shall be based on field
observations of the registered or certified professional or the professional's
agents and information received from the project owner, project contractors and
public agencies.
2.If the registered or certified professional did
not provide construction phase services on the project that include supervision
of the construction of engineering structures, the plans shall be based on
information received from the project owner, project contractors and public
agencies, but need not be based on a field verification or investigation of the
improvements or grades unless the registered or certified professional is
engaged to provide the field verification services.
3.The registered or certified professional shall
not be required to include a certificate or statement on as built plans record documents that is inconsistent with or
varies from the provisions of
this section.
B.For the purposes of this section, "as built plans" "record documents" means plans that
document the registered or certified professional's final plans and that
include all changes made to the plans in the actual project construction. As built plans Record documents include as constructed asconstructed plans and record plans. END_STATUTE

