







REFERENCE TITLE: theft; bicycle from school grounds







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1481









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood; Representatives Andrade, Cardenas





AN ACT

amending section
131802, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to theft.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-1802, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-1802.Theft; classification; definitions
A.A person commits theft if, without lawful
authority, the person knowingly:
1.Controls property of another with the intent to
deprive the other person of such property; or
2.Converts for an unauthorized term or use services
or property of another entrusted to the defendant or placed in the defendant's
possession for a limited, authorized term or use; or
3.Obtains services or property of another by means
of any material misrepresentation with intent to deprive the other person of
such property or services; or
4.Comes into control of lost, mislaid or
misdelivered property of another under circumstances providing means of inquiry
as to the true owner and appropriates such property to the person's own or
another's use without reasonable efforts to notify the true owner; or
5.Controls property of another knowing or having
reason to know that the property was stolen; or
6.Obtains services known to the defendant to be
available only for compensation without paying or an agreement to pay the
compensation or diverts another's services to the person's own or another's
benefit without authority to do so; or
7.Controls the ferrous metal or nonferrous metal of
another with the intent to deprive the other person of the metal; or
8.Controls the ferrous metal or nonferrous metal of
another knowing or having reason to know that the metal was stolen; or
9.Purchases within the scope of the ordinary course
of business the ferrous metal or nonferrous metal of another person knowing
that the metal was stolen.
B.A person commits theft if, without lawful
authority, the person knowingly takes control, title, use or management of a
vulnerable adult's property while acting in a position of trust and confidence
and with the intent to deprive the vulnerable adult of the property. Proof
that a person took control, title, use or management of a vulnerable adult's
property without adequate consideration to the vulnerable adult may give rise
to an inference that the person intended to deprive the vulnerable adult of the
property.
C.It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution
under subsection B of this section that either:
1.The property was given as a gift consistent with
a pattern of gift giving to the person that existed before the adult became
vulnerable.
2.The property was given as a gift consistent with
a pattern of gift giving to a class of individuals that existed before the
adult became vulnerable.
3.The superior court approved the transaction
before the transaction occurred.
D.The inferences set forth in section 132305
apply to any prosecution under subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section.
E.At the conclusion of any grand jury proceeding,
hearing or trial, the court shall preserve any trade secret that is admitted in
evidence or any portion of a transcript that contains information relating to
the trade secret pursuant to section 44405.
F.Subsection B of this section does not apply to an
agent who is acting within the scope of the agent's duties as or on behalf of a
health care institution that is licensed pursuant to title 36, chapter 4 and
that provides services to the vulnerable adult.
G.Theft of property or services with a value of
twentyfive thousand dollars or more is a class 2 felony. Theft of
property or services with a value of four thousand dollars or more but less
than twentyfive thousand dollars is a class 3 felony. Theft of property
or services with a value of three thousand dollars or more but less than four thousand
dollars is a class 4 felony, except that theft of any vehicle engine or
transmission is a class 4 felony regardless of value. Theft of property or
services with a value of two thousand dollars or more but less than three
thousand dollars is a class 5 felony. Theft of property or services with a
value of one thousand dollars or more but less than two thousand dollars is a
class 6 felony. Theft of any property or services valued at less than one
thousand dollars is a class 1 misdemeanor, unless the property is taken from
the person of another, is a firearm, is
a bicycle taken from school grounds or is an animal taken for the
purpose of animal fighting in violation of section 132910.01, in which
case the theft is a class 6 felony.
H.A person who is convicted of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 1 or 3 of this section that involved property with a
value of one hundred thousand dollars or more is not eligible for suspension of
sentence, probation, pardon or release from confinement on any basis except
pursuant to section 31233, subsection A or B until the sentence imposed
by the court has been served, the person is eligible for release pursuant to
section 411604.07 or the sentence is commuted.
I.For the purposes of this section, the value of
ferrous metal or nonferrous metal includes the amount of any damage to the
property of another caused as a result of the theft of the metal.
J.In an action for theft of ferrous metal or
nonferrous metal:
1.Unless satisfactorily explained or acquired in
the ordinary course of business by an automotive recycler as defined and
licensed pursuant to title 28, chapter 10 or by a scrap metal dealer as defined
in section 441641, proof of possession of scrap metal that was recently
stolen may give rise to an inference that the person in possession of the scrap
metal was aware of the risk that it had been stolen or in some way participated
in its theft.
2.Unless satisfactorily explained or sold in the
ordinary course of business by an automotive recycler as defined and licensed
pursuant to title 28, chapter 10 or by a scrap metal dealer as defined in
section 441641, proof of the sale of stolen scrap metal at a price
substantially below its fair market value may give rise to an inference that
the person selling the scrap metal was aware of the risk that it had been
stolen.
K.For the purposes of this section:
1."Adequate consideration" means the
property was given to the person as payment for bona fide goods or services
provided by the person and the payment was at a rate that was customary for
similar goods or services in the community that the vulnerable adult resided in
at the time of the transaction.
2."Ferrous metal" and "nonferrous metal" have has the same meanings meaning prescribed in section 441641.
3."Pattern of gift giving" means two or
more gifts that are the same or similar in type and monetary value.
4."Position of trust and confidence" has
the same meaning prescribed in section 46456.
5."Property" includes all forms of real
property and personal property.
6."School
grounds" means in or on the grounds of a public or nonpublic kindergarten
program, common school, high school, college, community college or university.
6.7."Vulnerable
adult" has the same meaning prescribed in section 46451. END_STATUTE

