







REFERENCE TITLE: transportation funding; task force







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1490









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley, Begay, Dalessandro, Driggs, Farley, McGuire, Miranda, Sherwood;
  Representatives Barton, Campbell, Gray: Senators Burges, Dial, Farnsworth D,
  Griffin, Meza, Pierce, Shooter; Representatives Ackerley, Allen J, Borrelli,
  Bowers, Boyer, Brophy McGee, Coleman, Fann, Lawrence





AN ACT

Establishing a
surface transportation funding task force.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Surface transportation funding task force; membership;
duties; reports
A.The surface transportation funding task force is
established consisting of seven members, three of whom are appointed by the
governor, two of whom are appointed by the president of the senate and two of
whom are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. The
appointments shall be made within thirty days after the effective date of this
act. If an appointing authority fails to make appointments within forty days
after the effective date of this act, the other appointing authorities shall
jointly fill the remaining unfilled appointments.
B.Each member shall have at least ten years of
experience in any of the following:
1.State or local taxation.
2.Revenue forecasting.
3.Economic forecasting.
4.Municipal debt issuance.
5.State or local government finances in this state.
C.A member may not hold elected public office or be
employed by a transportation planning agency during the member's term on the
task force and may not have held elected public office or have been employed by
a transportation planning agency within the five years immediately preceding
the appointment.
D.Not more than four members may reside in any one
county and the remaining members must include residents of at least three
different counties.
E.The governor shall designate a task force
chairperson and vicechairperson from the membership in consultation with
the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives.
F.The task force shall do all of the following:
1.Review the existing, previously prepared reports
and analyses regarding transportation needs and revenue sources in this state.
2.Recommend specific revenue proposals for
dedicated funding sources for principal interstate highways in this state that
are sufficient to meet projected interstate freight capacity needs for twenty
years.
3.Recommend specific revenue proposals for
dedicated incremental funding sources for the highway user revenue fund that
are sufficient to meet the statewide needs of the state highway system and
associated proportionate funding for local government recipients of highway
user revenues based on the highway user revenue distribution requirements
prescribed by title 28, chapter 18, Arizona Revised Statutes.
4.Recommend specific revenue proposals for
dedicated funding sources for all of the department of public safety's highway
patrol costs. The proposals must be conditioned on the department of public
safety not receiving any monies from highway user revenue funds for highway
patrol costs.
5.Recommend specific revenue proposals for
dedicated funding options for regional state highway system and highway
capacity needs for twenty years.
6.Recommend specific revenue proposals for
dedicated funding options for local city, town and county roads and streets.
7.Prioritize the recommendations if the task force
recommends more than one proposal for any purpose prescribed in paragraph 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 or 6 of this subsection.
8.Engage in any other related duties as determined
by the task force members.
G.The task force shall meet at least monthly at the
state capitol in a hearing room in the senate or the house of representatives.
H.Any task force member who misses two consecutive
meetings is deemed to have vacated the member's position and shall be replaced
within twenty days after the second missed meeting. The appointing authority
who appointed the member whose seat is vacated shall make this appointment.
I.Any task force member who misses at least three
meetings is deemed to have vacated the position and shall be replaced within
twenty days after the third missed meeting. The appointing authority who
appointed the member whose seat is vacated shall make this appointment.
J.The task force shall:
1.Issue progress reports every three months to the
governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives and shall provide a copy of the reports to the secretary of
state.
2.Submit a final report of its findings and
recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of
the house of representatives on or before December 31, 2016 and shall provide a
copy of this report to the secretary of state.
K.If the task force requests staff support, it
shall be provided by any of the following:
1.The department of transportation.
2.The department of revenue.
3.The Arizona commerce authority.
4.Other executive branch personnel.
5.Staff of the joint legislative budget committee.
6.Any municipal planning organization in this
state.
7.Staff of the senate.
8.Staff of the house of representatives.
Sec.2.Delayed repeal
This act is repealed from and after June 30, 2017.
Sec.3.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

