







REFERENCE TITLE: health care services; patient education







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1445









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending title
32, chapter 32, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 323221;
relating to health care services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 32, chapter 32, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-3221, to read:
START_STATUTE32-3221.Lawful health care services; patient education;
exceptions; definitions 
A.This
state, any political subdivision of this state or any department or agency of
this state, including a health profession regulatory board, or a private entity
contracted with this state may not punish a health professional, directly or
indirectly through a subcontractor or otherwise, for making a patient aware of
or educating or advising a patient about lawful health care services, including
the off-label use of health care services or health carerelated research
or data, or for offering, providing or making available lawful health care
services, including the off-label use of health care services.
B.Unless an
entity has a sincerely held religious or moral belief, the entity may not
restrict a health professional who is an employee of or affiliated or
contracted with the entity for making a patient aware of or educating or advising
a patient about lawful health care services, including the off-label use of
health care services, or health carerelated research or data.
C.Making a
patient aware of or educating or advising a patient about lawful health care
services, including the off-label use of health care services, does not require
the health care service to be covered under the health care plan or the health
care system through which the patient receives care.
D.Making a
patient aware of or educating or advising a patient about lawful health care
services, including the off-label use of health care services, does not require
a health professional, an entity that employs the health professional or a
health care system to offer, provide or make the lawful health care service,
including the off-label use of health care services, available to the patient.
E.This
section does not:
1.Impair
the rights established in article II, Constitution of Arizona, or impair any
right or limitation on medical liability.
2.Prevent
any reporting to a health profession regulatory board regarding medical
liability cases, settlements or decisions.
F.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Lawful
health care service" means any healthrelated service or treatment,
to the extent that the service or treatment is allowed or not prohibited by law
or regulation, that may be provided by persons or businesses that are otherwise
allowed to offer such services.
2."Off-label
use" means any use that is not specified in the labeling or indications
for use for prescription drugs, biologics, approved medical devices and dietary
supplements approved by the United States food and drug administration. For
the purposes of this paragraph, "labeling" includes any written
material that accompanies, supplements or explains a product.
3."Punish"
means to impose any penalty, sanction or disciplinary action to discourage the
exercise of a right under this section.
4.Sincerely
held religious or moral belief does not include a belief that restricts the
access by a patient to a lawful health care service based on the cost of the
lawful health care service for that patient. END_STATUTE

