







REFERENCE TITLE: job training fund; lottery revenues.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1469









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Farley, Miranda, Pancrazi, Quezada,
  Sherwood: Bradley, Contreras, Meza; Representatives Alston, Kopec





AN ACT

amending sections
5572, 411544 and 411545.01, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending Laws 2000, chapter 383, section 10, as amended by Laws 2002, chapter
264, section 4, Laws 2007, chapter 293, section 3, Laws 2011, second special
session, chapter 1, section 126 and laws 2015, chapter 10, section 10; relating
to the arizona job TRAINING fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
5-572, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-572.Use of monies in state lottery fund; report
A.If there are any
bonds or bond related obligations payable from the state lottery revenue bond
debt service fund, the state lottery revenue bond debt service fund shall be
secured by a first lien on the monies in the state lottery fund after the
payment of operating costs of the lottery, as prescribed in section 5555,
subsection A, paragraph 1, until the state lottery bond debt service fund
contains sufficient monies to meet all the requirements for the current period
as required by the bond documents. Debt service for revenue bonds issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be paid first from monies that would have
otherwise been deposited pursuant to this section in the state general fund.
After the requirements for the current period have been satisfied as required
by the bond documents, the monies in the state lottery fund shall be expended
for the expenses of the commission incurred in carrying out its powers and
duties and in the operation of the lottery.
B.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsection A of this section, ten million dollars shall
be deposited in the Arizona game and fish commission heritage fund established
by section 17297.
C.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits
authorized in subsections A and B of this section, five million dollars shall
be allocated to the department of child safety for the healthy families program
established by section 8481, four million dollars shall be allocated to
the Arizona board of regents for the Arizona area health education system
established by section 151643, three million dollars shall be allocated
to the department of health services to fund the teenage pregnancy prevention
programs established in Laws 1995, chapter 190, sections 2 and 3, two million
dollars shall be allocated to the department of health services for the health
start program established by section 36697, two million dollars shall be
deposited in the disease control research fund established by section 36274
and one million dollars shall be allocated to the department of health services
for the federal women, infants and children food program.The
allocations in this subsection shall be adjusted annually according to changes
in the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 and the
allocations are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. If there are not sufficient monies available
pursuant to this subsection, the allocation of monies for each program shall be
reduced on a pro rata basis.
D.If the state lottery
director determines that monies available to the state general fund may not
equal eightyfour million one hundred fifty thousand dollars in a fiscal
year, the director shall not authorize deposits to the Arizona game and fish
commission heritage fund pursuant to subsection B of this section until the
deposits to the state general fund equal eightyfour million one hundred
fifty thousand dollars in a fiscal year.
E.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsections A through D of this section, one million
dollars or the remaining balance in the fund, whichever is less, is
appropriated to the department of economic security for grants to nonprofit
organizations, including faith based organizations, for homeless emergency and
transitional shelters and related support services. The department of economic
security shall submit a report on the amounts, recipients, purposes and results
of each grant to the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and
the president of the senate on or before December 31 of each year for the prior
fiscal year and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
F.Of the monies
remaining in the state lottery fund each fiscal year after appropriations and
deposits authorized in subsections A through E of this section, and after a
total of at least ninetynine million six hundred forty thousand dollars
has been deposited in the state general fund, three million five hundred
thousand dollars shall be deposited in the Arizona competes
job training fund
established by section 411545.01 411544. The balance
in the state lottery fund remaining after deposits into the Arizona competes job training fund shall be deposited in the university
capital improvement leaseto-own and bond fund established by section 151682.03,
up to a maximum of eighty percent of the total annual payments of lease-to-own
and bond agreements entered into by the Arizona board of regents.
G.All monies remaining
in the state lottery fund after the appropriations and deposits authorized in
this section shall be deposited in the state general fund.
H.Except for monies
expended for debt service of revenue bonds as provided in subsection A of this
section, monies expended under subsection A of this section are subject to
legislative appropriation.
I.The commission shall
transfer monies prescribed in this section on a quarterly basis. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
41-1544, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1544.Arizona job training fund; definitions
A.The Arizona job
training fund is established consisting of legislative appropriations, monies deposited pursuant to
section 5572, gifts, grants and other monies. The authority
shall administer the fund.On notice from the chief executive
officer, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
B.The chief executive
officer may accept and expend federal monies and private grants, gifts and
contributions to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
article.All monies for the program shall be expended only for the
costs related to training.Monies in the Arizona job training fund
are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations.
C.The Arizona job
training fund monies shall be spent on approval of the authority at the
direction of the chief executive officer in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures adopted by the governor's council on workforce policy.
D.A minimum of twentyfive
percent of the monies appropriated to the Arizona job training fund shall be
used to provide training to small businesses employing fewer than one hundred
employees.
E.A minimum of twentyfive
percent of the monies appropriated to the Arizona job training fund shall be
used to provide training to businesses located in rural areas of the state.
F.If a business
receives monies for training from the Arizona job training fund and the
business employs fewer than one hundred employees and is located in a rural area
of this state, the business shall be included in the minimum percentages
prescribed in subsections D and E of this section.
G.No more than fifty
percent of the monies in the Arizona job training fund shall be used to provide
incumbent worker training.
H.A single grant
awarded pursuant to this article shall not be more than ten percent of the
estimated annual total of monies deposited in the Arizona job training fund.
I.The
authority shall not approve grant monies for reimbursement of the following employer
costs:
1.Fringe
benefits, food and beverages, recruitment and signing bonuses for trainees and
trainers.
2.Employer costs to
complete a program application.
3.Except for small
businesses, training expenses for partners or corporate officers.
4.Employee relocation
expenses.
5.Training or course
development costs that are not part of the employer's approved training plan.
6.Costs for assessing
the training needs of employees.
7.Drug or other testing
costs for employee screening or prescreening purposes.
8.Costs for trade shows
and conferences or seminars that do not result in a skill certificate that is
earned by an employee.
9.Other costs
prohibited by rule.
J.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Rural
area" means either:
(a)A county with a
population of less than seven hundred fifty thousand persons according to the
most recent United States decennial census.
(b)A census county
division with less than fifty thousand persons in a county with a population of
seven hundred fifty thousand or more persons according to the most recent
United States decennial census.
2."Small
business" means a concern, including its affiliates, that employs fewer
than one hundred employees. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
41-1545.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1545.01.Arizona competes fund; appropriation
A.The Arizona competes
fund is established consisting of:
1.Withholding tax
revenues allocated to the fund from the job creation withholdings clearing
account pursuant to section 43409, subsection B, paragraph 2.
2.Any other amounts
dedicated to the fund by law.
3.Gifts, grants and
other donations received for that purpose.
4.Any available monies
received from the United States government, including monies from the American
recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L.1115).
B.The sum of $3,500,000 is appropriated from the state
general fund in fiscal year 20162017 and each fiscal year thereafter to
the fund.
B.C.Monies
credited to the fund may be deposited in the state treasury or in a bank or
other depository pursuant to section 411504, subsection D, paragraph 5.
C.D.The chief
executive officer shall administer the fund.On notice from the
chief executive officer, the state treasurer shall invest and divest any monies
in the fund deposited in the state treasury as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
D.E.The chief
executive officer shall use monies in the fund exclusively for the purposes of
this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Laws 2000,
chapter 383, section 10, as amended by Laws 2002, chapter 264, section 4, Laws
2007, chapter 293, section 3, Laws 2011, second special session, chapter 1,
section 126 and Laws 2015, chapter 10, section 10, is amended to read:
Sec.10.Delayed repeal
A.Section
23-730.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after December 31, 2016.
B.Title
41, chapter 10, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed from and after
December 31, 2016, at which time any unexpended or unencumbered monies in the
Arizona job training fund attributable to the job training employer tax imposed
pursuant to section 23-769, Arizona Revised Statutes, revert to the
unemployment compensation fund established by section 23-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, and any unexpended or unencumbered monies in the Arizona job training
fund not attributable to the job training employer tax imposed pursuant to
section 23-769, Arizona Revised Statutes, revert to the state general fund.

