







REFERENCE TITLE: taxis, limousines, livery vehicles







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1492









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley, Bradley; Representatives Cobb, Finchem, Larkin: Senators Burges,
  Hobbs; Representatives Gray, Livingston





AN ACT

amending sections
28-101 and 282401, arizona revised statutes; repealing section 282515,
arizona revised statutes; amending sections 28-9501, 289502, 28-9503,
28-9506, 289521, 289523, 289524 and 289525, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 28, chapter 30, article 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 28-9527; amending sections 28-9551 and 42-5062,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to for-hire transportation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Alcohol"
means any substance containing any form of alcohol, including ethanol,
methanol, propynol and isopropynol.
2."Alcohol
concentration" if expressed as a percentage means either:
(a)The number of grams
of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of blood.
(b)The number of grams
of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of breath.
3."Allterrain
vehicle" means either of the following:
(a)A motor vehicle that
satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel.
(ii)Is fifty or fewer
inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand two hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on three or
more nonhighway tires.
(v)Is operated on a
public highway.
(b)A recreational
off-highway vehicle that satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway all-terrain travel.
(ii)Is sixtyfive
or fewer inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand eight hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on four or
more nonhighway tires.
4."Authorized
emergency vehicle" means any of the following:
(a)A fire department
vehicle.
(b)A police vehicle.
(c)An ambulance or
emergency vehicle of a municipal department or public service corporation that
is designated or authorized by the department or a local authority.
(d)Any other ambulance,
fire truck or rescue vehicle that is authorized by the department in its sole
discretion and that meets liability insurance requirements prescribed by the
department.
5."Autocycle"
means a threewheeled motorcycle on which the driver and passengers ride
in a completely enclosed seating area that is equipped with a roll cage, safety
belts for each occupant and antilock brakes and that is designed to be controlled
with a steering wheel and pedals.
6."Aviation
fuel" means all flammable liquids composed of a mixture of selected
hydrocarbons expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively
and efficiently operating an internal combustion engine for use in an aircraft
but does not include fuel for jet or turbine powered aircraft.
7."Bicycle"
means a device, including a racing wheelchair, that is propelled by human power
and on which a person may ride and that has either:
(a)Two tandem wheels,
either of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
(b)Three wheels in
contact with the ground, any of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
8."Board" means the transportation board.
9."Bus" means
a motor vehicle designed for carrying sixteen or more passengers, including the
driver.
10."Business
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway if
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes within any six
hundred feet along the highway, including hotels, banks or office buildings,
railroad stations and public buildings that occupy at least three hundred feet
of frontage on one side or three hundred feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
11."Combination of
vehicles" means a truck or truck tractor and semitrailer and any trailer
that it tows but does not include a forklift designed for the purpose of
loading or unloading the truck, trailer or semitrailer.
12."Controlled
substance" means a substance so classified under section 102(6) of the
controlled substances act (21 United States Code section 802(6)) and includes
all substances listed in schedules I through V of 21 Code of Federal
Regulations part 1308.
13."Conviction"
means:
(a)An
unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a person violated or
failed to comply with the law in a court of original jurisdiction or by an
authorized administrative tribunal.
(b)An unvacated
forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person's appearance in
court.
(c)A plea of guilty or
no contest accepted by the court.
(d)The payment of a
fine or court costs.
14."County
highway" means a public road that is constructed and maintained by a
county.
15."Dealer"
means a person who is engaged in the business of buying, selling or exchanging
motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers and who has an established place of
business.
16."Department"
means the department of transportation acting directly or through its duly
authorized officers and agents.
17."Digital
network or software application" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 289551.
18."Director"
means the director of the department of transportation.
19."Drive"
means to operate or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
20."Driver"
means a person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
21."Driver
license" means a license that is issued by a state to an individual and
that authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle.
22."Electric
personal assistive mobility device" means a selfbalancing two
nontandem wheeled device with an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed of the device to fifteen miles per hour or less and that is
designed to transport only one person.
23."Farm"
means any lands primarily used for agriculture production.
24."Farm
tractor" means a motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing implements of husbandry.
25."Foreign
vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer that is brought
into this state other than in the ordinary course of business by or through a
manufacturer or dealer and that has not been registered in this state.
26."Golf
cart" means a motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, that has an unladen weight of less than one thousand eight
hundred pounds, that is designed to be and is operated at not more than twentyfive
miles per hour and that is designed to carry not more than four persons
including the driver.
27."Hazardous
material" means a material, and its mixtures or solutions, that the United
States department of transportation determines under 49 Code of Federal
Regulations is, or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
under 42 Code of Federal Regulations part 73 that is, capable of posing an
unreasonable risk to health, safety and property if transported in commerce and
that is required to be placarded or marked as required by the department's
safety rules prescribed pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
28."Implement of
husbandry" means a vehicle designed primarily for agricultural purposes
and used exclusively in the conduct of agricultural operations, including an
implement or vehicle whether selfpropelled or otherwise that meets both
of the following conditions:
(a)Is used solely for
agricultural purposes including the preparation or harvesting of cotton,
alfalfa, grains and other farm crops.
(b)Is only incidentally
operated or moved on a highway whether as a trailer or selfpropelled
unit.For the purposes of this subdivision, "incidentally
operated or moved on a highway" means travel between a farm and another
part of the same farm, from one farm to another farm or between a farm and a
place of repair, supply or storage.
29."Limousine"
means a motor vehicle providing prearranged ground transportation service for
an individual passenger, or a group of passengers, that is arranged in advance
or is operated on a regular route or between specified points and includes
ground transportation under a contract or agreement for services that includes
a fixed rate or time and is provided in a motor vehicle with a seating capacity
not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
30."Livery
vehicle" means a motor vehicle that:
(a)Has a seating
capacity not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
(b)Provides passenger
services for a fare determined by a flat rate or flat hourly rate between
geographic zones or within a geographic area.
(c)Is available for
hire on an exclusive or shared ride basis.
(d)May do any of the
following:
(i)Operate on a regular
route or between specified places.
(ii)Offer prearranged
ground transportation service as defined in section 28141.
(iii)Offer on demand
ground transportation service pursuant to a contract with a public airport,
licensed business entity or organization.
31."Local
authority" means any county, municipal or other local board or body
exercising jurisdiction over highways under the constitution and laws of this
state.
32."Manufacturer"
means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing motor vehicles,
trailers or semitrailers.
33."Moped"
means a bicycle that is equipped with a helper motor if the vehicle has a
maximum piston displacement of fifty cubic centimeters or less, a brake
horsepower of one and onehalf or less and a maximum speed of twentyfive
miles per hour or less on a flat surface with less than a one percent grade.
34."Motor driven
cycle" means a motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a motor
that produces not more than five horsepower.
35."Motor
vehicle":
(a)Means either:
(i)A selfpropelled
vehicle.
(ii)For the purposes of
the laws relating to the imposition of a tax on motor vehicle fuel, a vehicle
that is operated on the highways of this state and that is propelled by the use
of motor vehicle fuel.
(b)Does not include a
motorized wheelchair, an electric personal assistive mobility device or a
motorized skateboard. For the purposes of this subdivision:
(i)"Motorized
skateboard" means a selfpropelled device that has a motor, a deck
on which a person may ride and at least two tandem wheels in contact with the
ground.
(ii)"Motorized
wheelchair" means a selfpropelled wheelchair that is used by a
person for mobility.
36."Motor vehicle
fuel" includes all products that are commonly or commercially known or
sold as gasoline, including casinghead gasoline, natural gasoline and all
flammable liquids, and that are composed of a mixture of selected hydrocarbons
expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively and
efficiently operating internal combustion engines. Motor vehicle fuel does not
include inflammable liquids that are specifically manufactured for racing motor
vehicles and that are distributed for and used by racing motor vehicles at a racetrack,
use fuel as defined in section 285601, aviation fuel, fuel for jet or
turbine powered aircraft or the mixture created at the interface of two
different substances being transported through a pipeline, commonly known as
transmix.
37."Motorcycle"
means a motor vehicle that has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
that is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground but excludes a tractor and a moped.
38."Motorized
quadricycle" means a self-propelled motor vehicle to which all of the
following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
self-propelled by an emission-free electric motor and may include pedals
operated by the passengers.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle seats at
least eight passengers, including the driver.
(d)The vehicle is
operable on a flat surface using solely the electric motor without assistance
from the pedals or passengers.
(e)The vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201.
(f)The vehicle is
licensed by the department of weights and
measures to operate as a limousine pursuant to section 289503.
(g)The vehicle is
manufactured by a motor vehicle manufacturer that is licensed pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title.
(h)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for lowspeed vehicles set forth in
federal motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations section sections 571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
39."Neighborhood
electric vehicle" means a selfpropelled electrically powered motor
vehicle to which all of the following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
emission free.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for low speed vehicles set forth in federal
motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations sections
571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
40."Nonresident"
means a person who is not a resident of this state as defined in section 282001.
41."Offroad
recreational motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel and that is not
operated on a public highway.Offroad recreational motor
vehicle does not mean a motor vehicle used for construction, building trade,
mining or agricultural purposes.
42."Operator"
means a person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway, who is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle on a highway or who is exercising control
over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
43."Owner"
means:
(a)A
person who holds the legal title of a vehicle.
(b)If
a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease with
the right of purchase on performance of the conditions stated in the agreement
and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or
lessee, the conditional vendee or lessee.
(c)If a mortgagor of a
vehicle is entitled to possession of the vehicle, the mortgagor.
44."Pedestrian"
means any person afoot.A person who uses an electric personal
assistive mobility device or a manual or motorized wheelchair is considered a
pedestrian unless the manual wheelchair qualifies as a bicycle.For
the purposes of this paragraph, "motorized wheelchair" means a selfpropelled
wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
45."Power
sweeper" means an implement, with or without motive power, that is only
incidentally operated or moved on a street or highway and that is designed for
the removal of debris, dirt, gravel, litter or sand whether by broom, vacuum or
regenerative air system from asphaltic concrete or cement concrete surfaces,
including parking lots, highways, streets and warehouses, and a vehicle on
which the implement is permanently mounted.
46."Public
transit" means the transportation of passengers on scheduled routes by
means of a conveyance on an individual passenger farepaying basis
excluding transportation by a sightseeing bus, school bus or taxi or a vehicle
not operated on a scheduled route basis.
47."Reconstructed
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been assembled or constructed largely by
means of essential parts, new or used, derived from vehicles or makes of
vehicles of various names, models and types or that, if originally otherwise
constructed, has been materially altered by the removal of essential parts or
by the addition or substitution of essential parts, new or used, derived from
other vehicles or makes of vehicles.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "essential parts" means integral and body parts, the
removal, alteration or substitution of which will tend to conceal the identity
or substantially alter the appearance of the vehicle.
48."Residence
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district if the property on the highway for a distance of
three hundred feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
49."Rightofway"
when used within the context of the regulation of the movement of traffic on a
highway means the privilege of the immediate use of the
highway.Rightofway when used within the context of
the real property on which transportation facilities and appurtenances to the
facilities are constructed or maintained means the lands or interest in lands
within the rightofway boundaries.
50."School
bus" means a motor vehicle that is designed for carrying more than ten
passengers and that is either:
(a)Owned by any public
or governmental agency or other institution and operated for the transportation
of children to or from home or school on a regularly scheduled basis.
(b)Privately owned and
operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or from home or
school on a regularly scheduled basis.
51."Semitrailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that some part of its weight and
that of its load rests on or is carried by another vehicle. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 28601.
52."State"
means a state of the United States and the District of Columbia.
53."State
highway" means a state route or portion of a state route that is accepted
and designated by the board as a state highway and that is maintained by the
state.
54."State
route" means a rightofway whether actually used as a highway
or not that is designated by the board as a location for the construction of a
state highway.
55."Street"
or "highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way if a part of the way is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
56."Taxi"
means a motor vehicle that has a seating capacity not exceeding fifteen
passengers, including the driver, that is
registered as a taxi in this state or any other state, that
provides passenger services and that:
(a)Does not primarily
operate on a regular route or between specified places.
(b)Offers local
transportation for a fare determined on the basis of the distance traveled or
prearranged ground transportation service as defined in section 28141
for a predetermined fare.
57."Traffic survival
school" means a school that offers educational sessions to drivers who are
required to attend and successfully complete educational sessions pursuant to
this title that are designed to improve the safety and habits of drivers and
that are approved by the department.
58."Trailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that no part of its weight rests
on the towing vehicle. A semitrailer equipped with an auxiliary front axle
commonly known as a dolly is deemed to be a trailer. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in section
28601.
59."Transportation
network company" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
60."Transportation
network company vehicle" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
61."Transportation
network service" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
62."Truck"
means a motor vehicle designed or used primarily for the carrying of property
other than the effects of the driver or passengers and includes a motor vehicle
to which has been added a box, a platform or other equipment for such carrying.
63."Truck
tractor" means a motor vehicle that is designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and that is not constructed to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load drawn.
64."Vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or property is or may be transported
or drawn on a public highway, excluding devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
65."Vehicle
transporter" means either:
(a)A truck tractor
capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer.
(b)A truck tractor with
a stingersteered fifth wheel capable of carrying a load and drawing a
semitrailer or a truck tractor with a dolly mounted fifth wheel that is
securely fastened to the truck tractor at two or more points and that is
capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2401.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Immediate family member" means a
spouse or a parent, child, brother or sister whether by adoption or blood.
2."Special plates" means plates issued
pursuant to this article or pursuant to
section 282515. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 282515, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Section 28-9501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9501.Definition of taxi meter
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Commercial
device" means any measuring device that is used to determine the direct
cost of things or used to establish a fee for service if the cost is based on
measure.
2."taxi
meter" means a commercial
device that meets the requirements of the
national institute of standards and technology handbook 44 as prescribed by
section 33413
automatically calculates at a predetermined rate the charge for the hire of a
vehicle and that indicates the charge. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 28-9502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9502.Powers and duties
A.The department shall:
1.adopt any
rules necessary to carry out this chapter and adopt reasonable rules for the
enforcement of this chapter. These rules have the force and effect of law and
shall be adopted pursuant to title 41, chapter 6. In
adopting these rules, the director shall consider, as far as is practicable,
the requirements established by other states and by authority of the United
States, except that rules may not be made in conflict with this chapter.
B.The
department may:
2.1.Investigate
complaints made to the department concerning violations of this chapter and, on
its own initiative, conduct investigations it deems appropriate in order to
develop information relating to prevailing procedures in commercial quantity for taxi meter rate determination and possible violations of this
chapter and to promote accuracy in the determination and representation of
quantity in commercial transactions taxi meter rates.
3.2.Inspect and test
taxi meters by a random
systematic method determined by the director or in response to a complaint by
the public to determine whether the taxi meters meet the requirements of the national institute of standards and
technology handbook 44 as prescribed by section 33413 the department by rule.
4.3.Apply to any
court of competent jurisdiction for a temporary or permanent injunction
restraining any person from violating this chapter.
5.Report to the governor
on or before August 1 of each year and at such other times as may be required
on the work accomplished under this chapter.
6.4.Subject to
title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ such personnel as needed to assist in
administering this chapter.
B.Testing and inspection
conducted pursuant to this chapter shall be done, to the extent practicable,
without prior notice, by a random systematic method determined by the director
or in response to a complaint by the public.
C.During the course of an investigation or an
enforcement action by the department, information regarding the complainant is
confidential and is exempt from title 39, chapter 1 unless the complainant
authorizes the information to be public. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 28-9503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9503.Taxi meter permits; fees; violation; classification
A.A person
may not use a commercial device unless the device is licensed as provided in
this chapter.
B.A license
shall be obtained annually from the department on forms prescribed and
furnished by the department.The fee, as determined by the director
by rule, shall be submitted with the prescribed form. A license shall be
obtained not later than thirty days following the first day of commercial use
for original installations. If the ownership of a licensed device is
transferred, the ownership of the license may be transferred. On transfer of a
license, new licensees shall notify the department of the licensee's name and
address and the location of the device.
A.A taxi,
livery vehicle or limousine may not operate in this state unless the owner of
the taxi, livery vehicle or limousine is issued a permit by the
department.The owner may apply to the department on forms
prescribed by the department.The department shall charge and
collect an application fee of twentyfour dollars per vehicle for a
three-year permit, not to exceed a total of one thousand dollars per applicant.
B.The
department shall issue a permit to an applicant that meets the requirements of
this article.
C.A
taxi, livery vehicle or limousine owner shall maintain an agent for service of
process in this state.
C.d.If a fare is
based on time or mileage or both time and mileage, a taxi shall have a commercial device and shall obtain a license as
prescribed by the department taxi meter, except that if the service
offered by the taxi is a prearranged ground transportation service as
prescribed in section 28141 for a predetermined fare, a taxi is not
required to use a commercial device taxi meter.
D.e.The department
may not issue a license permit for a taxi, livery
vehicle or limousine unless the taxi, livery vehicle or limousine meets the
requirements for both of the following:
1.Motor vehicle licensing as prescribed by the
department.
2.Motor vehicle insurance as prescribed by section
284033.
E.f.The department
shall revoke a license permit if the taxi, livery
vehicle or limousine fails to maintain the requirements for either of the
following:
1.Motor vehicle licensing as prescribed by the
department.
2.Motor vehicle insurance as prescribed by section
284033.
F.g.A taxi, or livery vehicle or limousine shall have a license permit
issued under this chapter posted
on the outside of the rear window as required by the department.A
limousine shall carry a license issued under this chapter inside
the vehicle at all times.
G.h.A taxi that is licensed issued a permit by the department and that
offers local transportation for a fare determined on the basis of the distance
traveled or prearranged ground transportation service as prescribed in section
28141 for a predetermined fare is not required to be additionally licensed have an additional permit as a livery vehicle.
H.i.A person or the
person's agent who knowingly files with the department any notice, statement or
other document required under this section that is false or that contains any
material misstatement of fact is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 28-9506, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9506.Taxi and livery vehicle signage
A.A taxi or livery vehicle shall display interior signage that contains all of the following information either on an interior sign
that is readily visible and that is either in a print or an electronic format
or on a digital network or software application:
B.1.The licensee's business name and address. and
that is all of the following:
1.Permanent.
2.In letters at least
onehalf inch in height.
3.Readily visible.
4.2.Accurately representative An accurate representation of all fares and the
fare computation method.
B.3.A taxi or livery vehicle shall display interior signage that
contains The
driver's name and is readily visible to passengers.
C.B.At a minimum, a taxi is required to display readily visible exterior signage
trade dress as defined in section 28-9551 that contains the licensee's business name and telephone number, that contains
the word "taxi" or "cab". and that is all
of the following:
1.Permanent.
2.In letters at least
three inches in height.
3.Readily visible and a
minimum of one inch in height for fare information.
4.Accurately
representative of all fares and the fare computation method. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 28-9521, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9521.Unlawful use of taxi meter;
authorization to prevent such use; seizure; violation; classification
A.When any commercial
device taxi meter specified
in this chapter is in commercial use and a valid license
for the device
permit has not been procured by the owner, the owner's agent or the
operator of the device taxi meter, the department,
after giving notice of the licensing permit requirements to the
owner, the owner's agent or the operator, shall prohibit the further commercial
use of the unlicensed device taxi meter until the proper license permit has been issued.The department may employ and attach to the device such
forms, notices or security seals as it considers necessary to prevent the
continued unauthorized use of the device.
B.A registered service
representative may also:
1.With approval of the
department, remove an official rejection tag placed on a commercial device.
2.Place in service,
until an official examination can be made, a commercial device that has been
officially rejected or placed out of service.
3.Place in service,
until an official examination can be made, a commercial device for which a
commercial device application has been completed and submitted to the
department.
C.B.The owner of
any business who has not applied for and has not been issued a license permit by the department for the right to do business
involving the use of a commercial device by the
department taxi
meter and who is found selling or offering for sale or delivering or
distributing to a consumer is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor, and the
department shall confiscate and seize the commercial
device or any other such measuring device taxi meter used by the business for the sale, delivery or distribution as evidence.
D.C.The director
and any other authorized personnel are not liable to the owner or any other
persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, trusts or agencies for damages,
directly or indirectly, caused by or resulting from the seizure.
E.D.If a commercial device
licensed pursuant to this chapter
taxi meter is used
contrary to any provision of this chapter or any rule adopted pursuant to this
chapter, the department, in addition to any other penalty imposed by this
chapter, shall suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license permit. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 28-9523, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9523.Violations; classification; jurisdiction
A.A person is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who:
1.Knowingly hinders, interferes with or obstructs
in any way the director or any of the director's agents or inspectors in
entering the premises where a commercial device taxi meter may be kept for
inspecting or testing or in the performance of the director's
official duties of the
director or the director's agent's agents or inspector's official duties inspectors.
2.Impersonates in any way the director or any of
the director's agents or inspectors by the use of the director's seal or a
counterfeit of the director's seal or in any other manner.
3.Uses, or has in possession for the purpose of
using for any a commercial purpose, sells, offers or exposes for sale or hire, or has
in possession for the purpose of selling or hiring an incorrect weight or measure or any device or instrument taxi meter used or
calculated to falsify any weight or measure the accuracy of the taxi meter.
4.Sells, or offers or
exposes for sale, less than the quantity the person represents of any
commodity, thing or service.
5.Takes more than the
quantity the person represents of any commodity, thing or service, when, as
buyer, the person furnishes the weight or measure by means of which the amount
of the commodity, thing or service is determined.
B.A person is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor who:
1.Uses, or has in
possession for the purpose of current use for any commercial purpose, a weight
or measure that does not bear a seal or mark of approval based on an inspection
and test, unless the weight or measure has been exempted from testing by order
of the department, or unless the device has been placed in service as provided
in this chapter.Any person or persons making use of a commercial
device that is subject to this chapter shall report to the director or the
director's representatives, in writing, the number and location of the
commercial device and shall promptly report the installation of any new
commercial device.
2.Disposes of any rejected
or condemned weight or measure in a manner contrary to law or rule.
3.Removes from any
weight or measure, contrary to law or rule, any tag, seal or mark placed on the
weight or measure by the appropriate authority pursuant to this chapter.
4.Keeps for the purpose
of selling, advertising or offering or exposing for sale or sells any
commodity, thing or service in a condition or manner contrary to law or rule.
5.1.Uses in retail trade, except in the preparation of
packages put up in advance of sale and of medical prescriptions, a weight or
measure a taxi meter that
is so positioned that its indications cannot be accurately read and the weighing, metering, measuring or counting operation cannot be
observed from some position that may reasonably be assumed by a customer.
6.2.Violates this
chapter or rules adopted under this chapter.A continuing violation
may be deemed to be a separate violation each day during which the violation is
committed for the purpose of imposing a fine.
C.The provisions of this section are in addition to
and not in limitation of any other provision of law.
D.The attorney general and the county attorney shall have concurrent
jurisdiction to prosecute violations of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 28-9524, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9524.Presumptive evidence of use
When a weight, measure, meter,
counter or commercial device taxi meter is in or about any place in which or from which buying or selling a vehicle hire transaction is commonly carried
on, there shall be is a rebuttable presumption
that the weight, measure, meter, counter or
commercial device taxi
meter is regularly used for the business purpose of the place. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 28-9525, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9525.Civil penalties
A.A person who violates this chapter, any rule of
the department or any license permit requirement is
subject to a civil penalty imposed by the director.A person who
violates this chapter, any rule of the department or any license permit requirement may request a hearing to review a civil
penalty imposed under this section.The department shall conduct the
hearing in accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10.Except as prescribed in subsection B of this section,
The civil penalty may not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars for each infraction or more than ten thousand dollars for any thirtyday
period at each business location or for
each public weighmaster, provided that no person shall be assessed more than
fifty thousand dollars per thirtyday period.
B.The director may
double the maximum civil penalty if any of the following applies:
1.A commercial device is
found to be in violation with results that favor the retailer at more than
twice the allowable tolerance as stated in national institute of standards and
technology handbook 44.
2.A package is found to
exceed the maximum allowable variation for the labeled quantity allowed in
national institute of standards and technology handbook 133 or the average
error of the lot is twice the sample error limit in favor of the retailer.
3.A maximum civil
penalty has been imposed on a retailer for a price posting or price
verification violation and in a reinspection, if conducted within ninety days,
the failure rate is ten percent or more and at least one error is in favor of
the retailer.
C.B.The attorney
general shall bring actions to recover civil penalties pursuant to this section
in the superior court in the county in which the violation occurred or in a
county where the agency has its office.All monies derived from
civil penalties shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in the state general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Title 28, chapter 30, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 28-9527, to read:
START_STATUTE28-9527.Transaction privilege tax prohibited
A taxi, livery vehicle
or limousine owner or driver that has a license issued pursuant to article 1 of
this chapter may not be required to pay transaction privilege tax or any
similar tax imposed by any taxing authority in this state on transactions in
which a taxi, livery vehicle or limousine is providing passenger services. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 28-9551, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9551.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Digital network or software
application" means any onlineenabled application, software, website
or system that is offered or used by a transportation network company and that
enables a potential passenger to arrange a ride with a transportation network
company driver.
2."Limousine"
means a motor vehicle providing prearranged ground transportation service for
an individual passenger, or a group of passengers, that is arranged in advance
or is operated on a regular route or between specified points and includes
ground transportation under a contract or agreement for services that includes
a fixed rate or time and is provided in a motor vehicle with a seating capacity
not exceeding fifteen passengers, including the driver.
3."Livery
vehicle" means a motor vehicle that:
(a)Has a
seating capacity not exceeding fifteen passengers, including the driver.
(b)Provides
passenger services for a fare determined by a flat rate or flat hourly rate
between geographic zones or within a geographic area.
(c)Is
available for hire on an exclusive or sharedride basis.
(d)May do any
of the following:
(i)Operate on
a regular route or between specified places.
(ii)Offer
prearranged ground transportation service as defined in section 28141.
(iii)Offer on
demand ground transportation service pursuant to a contract with a public
airport, licensed business entity or organization.
4."Person"
means both the plural and the singular, as the case demands, and includes
individuals, partnerships, corporations, companies, societies and associations.
5."Taxi"
means a motor vehicle that has a seating capacity not exceeding fifteen
passengers, including the driver, that is registered as a taxi in this state or
any other state, that provides passenger services and that:
(a)Does not
primarily operate on a regular route or between specified places.
(b)Offers
local transportation for a fare determined on the basis of the distance
traveled or prearranged ground transportation service as defined in section 28141
for a predetermined fare.
6.2."Trade
dress" means a removable and distinct logo, insignia or emblem attached to
or visible from the exterior of either
of the following:
(a)A transportation
network company vehicle during the performance of transportation network
services.
(b)A taxi while providing passenger
services.
7.3."Transportation
network company" means an entity that has been issued a permit pursuant to
this article, that operates in this state, that uses a digital network or
software application to connect passengers to transportation network services
provided by transportation network company drivers and that may but is not
deemed to own, operate or control a personal motor vehicle of a transportation
network company driver. Transportation network company does not include the
following:
(a)This state or a county, city, town or political
subdivision of this state and any related entity, a nonprofit agency or any
other public body that coordinates, operates, promotes or sponsors public
transportation, or carpool or vanpool services.
(b)A program that is in place to meet federal air
quality standards pursuant to section 49404.
(c)Any individual, company or activity that meets
the requirements of a rental car agent or rental company as defined in section
20-331 if all of the following apply:
(i)Transportation is provided to another person or
is arranged by the rental company but provided by another person.
(ii)The route is predetermined.
(iii)Any money exchanged between the provider of
the transportation and the recipient does not exceed the cost of providing the
transportation.
8.4."Transportation
network company driver" means an individual who receives connections to
potential passengers and related services from a transportation network company
in exchange for payment of a fee to the transportation network company and who
operates a motor vehicle that is both of the following:
(a)Owned, leased or otherwise authorized for use by
the individual.
(b)Used to provide transportation network services.
9.5."Transportation
network company vehicle" means a motor vehicle that meets all of the
following:
(a)Has a seating capacity not exceeding eight
passengers, including the driver.
(b)Is authorized by a transportation network
company.
(c)Is used by a transportation network company
driver to provide transportation network services.
10.6."Transportation
network services" means the transportation of a passenger between points
chosen by the passenger and arranged with a transportation network company driver
through the use of a transportation network company's digital network or
software application beginning when a transportation network company driver
accepts a request for transportation network services received through the
transportation network company's digital network or software application,
continuing while the transportation network company driver provides
transportation network services in a transportation network company vehicle and
ending when the passenger exits the transportation network company vehicle or
when the trip is canceled. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 42-5062, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5062.Transporting classification
A.The transporting classification is comprised of
the business of transporting for hire persons, freight or property by motor
vehicle, railroads or aircraft from one point to another point in this
state.The transporting classification does not include:
1.Transporting for
hire persons, freight or property by:
(a)Motor
carriers subject to a fee prescribed in title 28, chapter 16, article 4. or by
(b)Light motor
vehicles subject to a fee under title 28, chapter 15, article 4. ,
(c)Transportation
network companies subject to a fee prescribed by
pursuant to section 289552. or
(d)Transportation
network company drivers on transactions involving transportation network
services as defined in section 289551.
(e)owners or drivers of taxis,
livery vehicles or limousines that are issued permits pursuant to section 289503.
2.The business of transporting for hire persons
traveling in air commerce by aircraft if taxation of the business is preempted
by federal law.
3.Ambulances or ambulance services provided under
title 48 or certified pursuant to title 36, chapter 21.1 or provided by a city
or town in a county with a population of less than one hundred fifty thousand
persons as determined in the most recent United States decennial census.
4.Public transportation program services for the
dial-a-ride programs and special needs transportation services.
5.Transporting freight or property for hire by a
railroad operating exclusively in this state if the transportation comprises a
portion of a single shipment of freight or property, involving more than one
railroad, either from a point in this state to a point outside this state or
from a point outside this state to a point in this state.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "a single shipment" means the
transportation that begins at the point at which one of the railroads first
takes possession of the freight or property and continues until the point at
which one of the railroads relinquishes possession of the freight or property
to a party other than one of the railroads.
6.Arranging transportation as a convenience or
service to a person's customers if that person is not otherwise engaged in the
business of transporting persons, freight or property for hire. This exception
does not apply to businesses that dispatch vehicles pursuant to customer orders
and send the billings and receive the payments associated with that activity,
including when the transportation is performed by third-party independent
contractors.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"arranging" includes billing for or collecting transportation charges
from a person's customers on behalf of the persons providing the
transportation.
B.The tax base for the transporting classification
is the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the business,
except that the following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from transporting for hire persons, freight or property by a railroad
pursuant to a contract with another railroad that is also considered to be
engaged in the businesses of transporting persons, freight or property for hire
if the other railroad is liable for the tax on gross proceeds of sales or gross
income attributable to the transportation.
2.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from business activity that is properly included in any other business
classification under this article and that is taxable to the person engaged in
that classification, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross income to be
deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the person conducting the
activity.
3.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a business activity that is arranged by the person who is subject
to tax under this section and that is not taxable to the person conducting the
activity due to an exclusion, exemption or deduction under this section or
section 425073, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross income to be
deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the person conducting the
activity.
4.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from business activity that is arranged by a person who is subject to
tax under this section and that is taxable to another person under this section
who conducts the activity, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross income to
be deducted shall not exceed the consideration paid to the person conducting
the activity.
5.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from transporting fertilizer by a railroad from a point in this state
to another point in this state. END_STATUTE

