







REFERENCE TITLE: temporary open space; taxation







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1458









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

Amending sections
33-272, 33-274 and 33-276, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 33, chapter
2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 33-277; amending
section 42-12004, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 42, chapter 12,
article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 42-12058; relating to
conservation easements.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-272, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-272.Creation, conveyance, acceptance and duration
A.Except as otherwise provided in this article, a
conservation easement may be created, conveyed, recorded, assigned, released,
modified, terminated or otherwise altered or affected in the same manner as
other easements.For purposes of this article, conservation
easements shall be voluntarily created and shall not be required by a political
subdivision or governmental entity.This article neither limits nor
enlarges the power or purposes of eminent domain, zoning, subdivision
regulations or any right of condemnation under the laws of this
state.Any assignment, release, modification, termination or other
document altering or affecting a conservation easement need only be executed or
approved in writing by the current owner of the real property which
that is burdened by the conservation easement, the holder of the
conservation easement and any governmental body, charitable corporation or
trustee of a charitable trust having a third party right of enforcement.
B.No right or duty in favor of or against a holder
and no right in favor of a governmental body, charitable corporation or trustee
of a charitable trust having a third party right of enforcement arises under a
conservation easement before its acceptance by the holder and a recordation of
the acceptance.
C.Except as
provided in section 33273, subsection B, a conservation easement is
unlimited in duration unless the instrument creating it otherwise provides.
C.A
conservation easement is unlimited in duration except as provided in section
33-273, subsection B and section 33-277.
D.An interest in real property in existence at the
time the conservation easement is created is not impaired by a conservation
easement unless the owner of the interest is a party to the conservation
easement or consents in writing to the conservation easement by an instrument
acknowledged and recorded in the office of the county recorder of the county in
which the affected real property is located. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-274, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-274.Validity and assignment of conservation easements
A.A conservation easement, or any assignment,
release, modification, termination or other document altering or affecting a
conservation easement, is only valid if recorded with the county recorder of
the county in which any portion of the real property burdened by the conservation
easement is located.
B.From and
after December 31, 2016, the creator of a temporary open space easement
pursuant to section 33-277, or the seller or assignor of real property burdened by a temporary
open space easement, shall file a notice of the action with the county assessor
of each county in which any portion of the real property burdened by the
easement is located.
B.C.Third party
rights of enforcement granted through a conservation easement to a governmental
body, charitable corporation or trustee of a charitable trust may not be
assigned, except with the prior written consent of the holder of the
conservation easement.
C.D.A conservation
easement is valid even though:
1.It is not appurtenant to an interest in real
property.
2.It can be or has been assigned to another holder.
3.It is not of a character that has been recognized
traditionally at common law.
4.It imposes a negative burden.
5.It imposes affirmative obligations on the owner
of an interest in the burdened property or on the holder.
6.The benefit does not touch or concern real
property.
7.There is no privity of estate or of contract. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 33-276, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-276.Applicability
A.Except as
provided by section 33-277, this article applies to any interest
created after its effective date which
August 7, 1985 that
complies with this article, whether designated as a conservation easement or as
a covenant, equitable servitude, restriction, easement or otherwise.
B.This article does not invalidate any interest,
whether designated as a conservation or preservation easement or as a covenant,
equitable servitude, restriction, easement or otherwise, that is enforceable
under any other law of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 33, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 33-277, to read:
START_STATUTE33-277.Temporary open space easements
A.An owner
of real property may create a temporary open space easement as provided by this
article. An instrument creating a temporary open space easement from and after
December 31, 2016 must state:
1.That the
easement is temporary.
2.The term
of its duration, which must be at least ten years.
3.Whether,
and the conditions under which, the term may be renewed.
B.Except as
otherwise provided, the provisions of this article apply to a temporary open
space easement.
C.Real
property that is burdened by a temporary open space easement is subject to
assessment and taxation as class four property pursuant to section 42-12004
based on the current full cash value of the property subject to the easement. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-12004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12004.Class four property
A.For purposes of taxation, class four is
established consisting of:
1.Real and personal property and improvements to
the property that are used for residential purposes, including residential
property that is owned in foreclosure by a financial institution, that is not
otherwise included in another classification and that is valued at full cash
value. The homesite that is included in class four may include:
(a)Up to ten acres on a single parcel of real
property on which the residential improvement is located.
(b)More than ten, but not more than forty, acres on
a single parcel of real property on which the residential improvement is
located if it is zoned exclusively for residential purposes or contains legal
restrictions or physical conditions that prevent the division of the
parcel.For the purposes of this subdivision, "physical
conditions" means topography, mountains, washes, rivers, roads or any
other configuration that limits the residential usable land area.
2.Real and personal property and improvements to
the property that are used solely as leased or rented property for residential
purposes, that are not included in class one, two, three, six, seven or eight
and that are valued at full cash value.
3.Child care facilities that are licensed under
title 36, chapter 7.1 and that are valued at full cash value.
4.Real and personal property and improvements to
property that are used to operate nonprofit residential housing facilities that
are structured to house or care for persons with disabilities or who are sixtytwo
years of age or older and that are valued at full cash value.
5.Real and personal property and improvements that
are used to operate licensed residential care institutions or licensed nursing
care institutions that provide medical services, nursing services or health
related services and that are structured to house or care for persons with
disabilities or who are sixtytwo years of age or older and that are
valued at full cash value.
6.Real and personal property consisting of no more
than eight rooms of residential property that are leased or rented to transient
lodgers, together with furnishing no more than a breakfast meal, by the owner
who resides on the property and that is valued at full cash value.
7.Real and personal property consisting of
residential dwellings that are maintained for occupancy by agricultural
employees as a condition of employment or as a convenience to the employer,
that is not included in class three and that is valued at full cash
value.The land associated with these dwellings shall be valued as
agricultural land pursuant to chapter 13, article3 of this title.
8.Real property and improvements to property
constituting common areas that are valued pursuant to chapter 13, article 9 of
this title.
9.Real and personal property that is defined as
timeshare property by section 322197 and valued pursuant to chapter 13,
article 10 of this title, except for any property used for commercial,
industrial or transient occupancy purposes and included in class one to the
extent of that use.
10.Real
property that is subject to a temporary open space easement pursuant to title
33, chapter 2, article 4, valued at the full cash value of the property as
burdened by the temporary conservation easement.
B.Subsection A, paragraphs 4 and 5 of this section
shall not be construed to limit eligibility for exemption from taxation under
chapter 11, article 3 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 42, chapter 12, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-12058, to read:
START_STATUTE42-12058.Verification of temporary open space easement; recapture
penalty for failure to renew
A.The
classification of real property that is subject to a temporary open space
easement as class four pursuant to section 42-12004, subsection A, paragraph 10
constitutes an acceptance by the county assessor of a covenant by the owner of
the property that the use of the property will remain unchanged during the term
of the easement and that the easement will be renewed at the end of its current
term.
B.If the
assessor has reason to believe that the property is not being used in a manner
consistent with a conservation easement or that the temporary open space
easement has expired without renewal, the assessor shall notify the owner and
request that the owner respond as to whether the real property is still
burdened by the temporary open space easement. If the owner fails to respond to
the assessor within thirty days after the notice is mailed, the assessor shall
mail the owner a final notice within thirty days requesting that the owner
provide information as to whether or not the property is still burdened by the temporary open space easement.If the owner fails to
respond to the assessor within fifteen days after the final notice is mailed,
the assessor shall do both of the following:
1.Reclassify
the property as class two unless the assessor has evidence that another
classification is warranted.In addition to other appeal procedures
provided by law, the owner of the property that is reclassified under this
paragraph may appeal the reclassification to the county board of supervisors
within thirty days after the notice of classification is mailed.If
the owner proves to the board's satisfaction that the property remains burdened
by the temporary open space easement or a renewal of the easement, the board
shall order the property to be reclassified as class four property pursuant to
section 4212004, subsection A, paragraph 10.
2.Notify
the county treasurer who shall assess a civil penalty against the property
equal to one-half of the amount of ad valorem property taxes that would have
been assessed by all taxing jurisdictions if the property had been classified
as class two for the final one-half, but not more than ten, of the tax years
that have elapsed since the temporary open space easement was created or last
renewed, whichever is later. The penalty shall not be assessed if the
ownership of the property has changed after notification except for a sale of
the property for delinquent taxes.The owner of the property shall
pay the penalty under this paragraph to the county treasurer within thirty days
after the notice of the penalty is mailed. The owner may appeal the penalty to
the county board of supervisors within the time required for
payment.If the owner proves to the board's satisfaction that the
property remains burdened by the temporary open space easement or a renewal of
the easement, the board shall waive the penalty and the property shall be
listed as class four pursuant to section 4212004, subsection A,
PARAGRAPH 10.Until paid or waived, the penalty constitutes a lien
against the property.The county treasurer shall distribute all
revenue collected as penalties under this paragraph among the various taxing
jurisdictions according to their PROPORTIONATE tax rates applying to the
property during the tax years for which the penalty is assessed. END_STATUTE

