







REFERENCE TITLE: homeowners' associations; fees;
  hearings; elections 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1498









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D: Begay, Bradley





AN ACT

amending sections
331242, 331250, 331803 and 331812, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to condominiums and planned communities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1242, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1242.Powers of unit owners' association; notice to unit owner
of violation
A.Subject to the provisions of the declaration, the
association may:
1.Adopt and amend bylaws and rules.
2.Adopt and amend budgets for revenues,
expenditures and reserves and collect assessments for common expenses from unit
owners.
3.Hire and discharge managing agents and other
employees, agents and independent contractors.
4.Institute, defend or intervene in litigation or
administrative proceedings in its own name on behalf of itself or two or more
unit owners on matters affecting the condominium.
5.Make contracts and incur liabilities.
6.Regulate the use, maintenance, repair,
replacement and modification of common elements.
7.Cause additional improvements to be made as a
part of the common elements.
8.Acquire, hold, encumber and convey in its own
name any right, title or interest to real or personal property, except that common
elements may be conveyed or subjected to a security interest only pursuant to
section 331252.
9.Grant easements, leases, licenses and concessions
through or over the common elements.
10.Impose and receive any payments, fees or charges
for the use, rental or operation of the common elements other than limited
common elements described in section 331212, paragraphs 2 and 4 and for
services provided to unit owners.
11.Impose charges for late payment of assessments after the association has provided notice
that the assessment is overdue and, after notice and an
opportunity to be heard, impose reasonable monetary penalties upon on
unit owners for violations of the declaration, bylaws and rules
of the association.
12.Impose reasonable charges for the preparation
and recordation of amendments to the declaration or statements of unpaid
assessments.
13.Provide for the indemnification of its officers
and executive board of directors and maintain directors' and officers'
liability insurance.
14.Assign its right to future income, including the
right to receive common expense assessments, but only to the extent the
declaration expressly provides.
15.Be a member of a master association or other
entity owning, maintaining or governing in any respect any portion of the
common elements or other property benefitting or related to the condominium or
the unit owners in any respect.
16.Exercise any other powers conferred by the
declaration or bylaws.
17.Exercise all other powers that may be exercised
in this state by legal entities of the same type as the association.
18.Exercise any other powers necessary and proper
for the governance and operation of the association.
B.A unit owner who receives a written notice that
the condition of the property owned by the unit owner is in violation of a
requirement of the condominium documents without regard to whether a monetary
penalty is imposed by the notice may provide the association with a written
response by sending the response by certified mail within ten business days
after the date of the notice. The response shall be sent to the address
identified in the notice.
C.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the unit owner, the association
shall respond to the unit owner with a written explanation regarding the notice
that shall provide at least the following information unless previously
provided in the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the condominium documents that
has allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the unit owner must follow to contest
the notice.
D.Unless the information required in subsection C,
paragraph 4 of this section is provided in the notice of violation, the
association shall not proceed with any action to enforce the condominium
documents, including the collection of attorney fees, before or during the time
prescribed by subsection C of this section regarding the exchange of
information between the association and the unit owner and shall give the unit owner written notice of the unit
owner's option to petition for an administrative hearing on the matter in the
department of fire, building and life safety pursuant to section 412198.01.
At any time before or after completion of the exchange of information pursuant
to this section, the unit owner may petition for a hearing pursuant to section
412198.01 if the dispute is within the jurisdiction of the department of
fire, building and life safety as prescribed in section 412198.01,
subsection B. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-1250, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1250.Voting; proxies; absentee ballots; applicability;
definition
A.If only one of the multiple owners of a unit is
present at a meeting of the association, the owner is entitled to cast all the votes
allocated to that unit. If more than one of the multiple owners are present,
the votes allocated to that unit may be cast only in accordance with the
agreement of a majority in interest of the multiple owners unless the
declaration expressly provides otherwise. There is majority agreement if any
one of the multiple owners casts the votes allocated to that unit without
protest being made promptly to the person presiding over the meeting by any of
the other owners of the unit.
B.During the period of declarant control, votes
allocated to a unit may be cast pursuant to a proxy duly executed by a unit
owner. If a unit is owned by more than one person, each owner of the unit may
vote or register protest to the casting of votes by the other owners of the
unit through a duly executed proxy. A unit owner may not revoke a proxy given
pursuant to this section except by actual notice of revocation to the person
presiding over a meeting of the association. A proxy is void if it is not
dated or purports to be revocable without notice.The proxy is
revoked on presentation of a later dated proxy executed by the same unit
owner. A proxy terminates one year after its date, unless it specifies a
shorter term or unless it states that it is coupled with an interest and is
irrevocable.
C.Notwithstanding any provision in the condominium
documents, after termination of the period of declarant control, votes
allocated to a unit may not be cast pursuant to a proxy. The association shall
provide for votes to be cast in person and by absentee ballot and, in addition,
the association may provide for voting by some other form of delivery,
including the use of e-mail and fax delivery. Notwithstanding section 103708
or the provisions of the condominium documents, any action taken at an annual,
regular or special meeting of the members shall comply with all of the
following if absentee ballots or ballots provided by some other form of
delivery are used:
1.The ballot shall set forth each proposed action.
2.The ballot shall provide an opportunity to vote
for or against each proposed action.
3.The ballot is valid for only one specified
election or meeting of the members and expires automatically after the
completion of the election or meeting.
4.The ballot specifies the time and date by which
the ballot must be delivered to the board of directors in order to be counted,
which shall be at least seven days after the date that the board delivers the
unvoted ballot to the member.
5.The ballot does not authorize another person to
cast votes on behalf of the member.
6.The
completed ballot and envelope and any related materials shall contain the name,
address and signature of the person voting, except that if the condominium
documents permit secret ballots, only the envelope and any nonballotrelated
materials shall contain the name, address and signature of the voter.
7.Ballots,
envelopes and related materials, including sign-in sheets if used, shall be
retained and made available for unit owner inspection for at least one year
after completion of the election.
D.Votes cast by absentee ballot or other form of
delivery, including the use of e-mail and fax delivery, are valid for the
purpose of establishing a quorum.
E.Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, an
association for a timeshare plan as defined in section 322197 may permit
votes by a proxy that is duly executed by a unit owner.
F.If the declaration requires that votes on
specified matters affecting the condominium be cast by lessees rather than unit
owners of leased units all of the following apply:
1.The provisions of subsections A and B of this
section apply to lessees as if they were unit owners.
2.Unit owners who have leased their units to other
persons shall not cast votes on those specified matters.
3.Lessees are entitled to notice of meetings,
access to records and other rights respecting those matters as if they were
unit owners. Unit owners shall also be given notice, in the manner prescribed
in section 331248, of all meetings at which lessees may be entitled to
vote.
G.Unless the declaration provides otherwise, votes
allocated to a unit owned by the association shall not be cast.
H.This section does not apply to timeshare plans or
associations that are subject to chapter 20 of this title.
I.For the purposes of this section, "period of
declarant control" means the time during which the declarant or persons
designated by the declarant may elect or appoint the members of the board of
directors pursuant to the condominium documents or by virtue of superior voting
power. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 33-1803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1803.Assessment limitation; penalties; notice to member of
violation
A.Unless limitations in the community documents
would result in a lower limit for the assessment, the association shall not
impose a regular assessment that is more than twenty percent greater than the
immediately preceding fiscal year's assessment without the approval of the
majority of the members of the association.Unless reserved to the
members of the association, the board of directors may impose reasonable
charges for the late payment of assessments. A payment by a member is deemed
late if it is unpaid fifteen or more days after its due date, unless the
community documents provide for a longer period.Charges for the
late payment of assessments are limited to the greater of fifteen dollars or
ten percent of the amount of the unpaid assessment and may be imposed only after the association has provided
notice that the assessment is overdue. Any monies paid by the
member for an unpaid assessment shall be applied first to the principal amount
unpaid and then to the interest accrued.
B.After notice and an opportunity to be heard, the
board of directors may impose reasonable monetary penalties on members for
violations of the declaration, bylaws and rules of the
association.Notwithstanding any provision in the community
documents, the board of directors shall not impose a charge for a late payment
of a penalty that exceeds the greater of fifteen dollars or ten percent of the
amount of the unpaid penalty.A payment is deemed late if it is
unpaid fifteen or more days after its due date, unless the declaration, bylaws
or rules of the association provide for a longer period. Any monies paid by a
member for an unpaid penalty shall be applied first to the principal amount
unpaid and then to the interest accrued. Notice pursuant to this subsection
shall include information pertaining to the manner in which the penalty shall
be enforced.
C.A member who receives a written notice that the
condition of the property owned by the member is in violation of the community
documents without regard to whether a monetary penalty is imposed by the notice
may provide the association with a written response by sending the response by
certified mail within ten business days after the date of the
notice.The response shall be sent to the address identified in the
notice.
D.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the member, the association shall
respond to the member with a written explanation regarding the notice that
shall provide at least the following information unless previously provided in
the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the community documents that has
allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the member must follow to contest the
notice.
E.Unless the information required in subsection D,
paragraph 4 of this section is provided in the notice of violation, the association
shall not proceed with any action to enforce the community documents, including
the collection of attorney fees, before or during the time prescribed by
subsection D of this section regarding the exchange of information between the
association and the member and shall
give the member written notice of the member's option to petition for an
administrative hearing on the matter in the department of fire, building and
life safety pursuant to section 412198.01.At
any time before or after completion of the exchange of information pursuant to
this section, the member may petition for a hearing pursuant to section 412198.01
if the dispute is within the jurisdiction of the department of fire, building
and life safety as prescribed in section 412198.01, subsection B. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 33-1812, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1812.Proxies; absentee ballots; definition
A.Notwithstanding any provision in the community
documents, after termination of the period of declarant control, votes
allocated to a unit may not be cast pursuant to a proxy. The association shall
provide for votes to be cast in person and by absentee ballot and, in addition,
the association may provide for voting by some other form of delivery,
including the use of e-mail and fax delivery. Notwithstanding section 103708
or the provisions of the community documents, any action taken at an annual,
regular or special meeting of the members shall comply with all of the
following if absentee ballots or ballots provided by some other form of
delivery are used:
1.The ballot shall set forth each proposed action.
2.The ballot shall provide an opportunity to vote
for or against each proposed action.
3.The ballot is valid for only one specified
election or meeting of the members and expires automatically after the
completion of the election or meeting.
4.The ballot specifies the time and date by which
the ballot must be delivered to the board of directors in order to be counted,
which shall be at least seven days after the date that the board delivers the
unvoted ballot to the member.
5.The ballot does not authorize another person to
cast votes on behalf of the member.
6.The
completed ballot and envelope and any related materials shall contain the name,
address and signature of the person voting, except that if the community
documents permit secret ballots, only the envelope and any nonballotrelated
materials shall contain the name, address and signature of the voter.
7.Ballots,
envelopes and related materials, including sign-in sheets if used, shall be
retained and made available for member inspection for at least one year after
completion of the election.
B.Votes cast by absentee ballot or other form of
delivery, including the use of email and fax delivery, are valid for the
purpose of establishing a quorum.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, an
association for a timeshare plan as defined in section 322197 may permit
votes by a proxy that is duly executed by a unit owner.
D.For the purposes of this section, "period of
declarant control" means the time during which the declarant or persons
designated by the declarant may elect or appoint the members of the board of
directors pursuant to the community documents or by virtue of superior voting
power. END_STATUTE

