







REFERENCE TITLE: reporting; untested sexual assault kits







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1406









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Contreras, Dalessandro, Farley, McGuire, Pancrazi,
  Sherwood; Representatives Alston, Fernandez, Mendez, Mesnard, Plumlee, Rios:
  Senators Lesko, Quezada, Shooter, Smith; Representatives Boyer, Friese,
  McCune Davis





AN ACT

providing for
reporting by criminal justice agencies on untested sexual assault collection
kits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Criminal justice agencies; inventory of sexual assault
collection kits; report; department of public safety crime laboratory report on
untested sexual assault collection kits; definitions
A. By January 1, 2017, each criminal justice agency
that is charged with the maintenance, storage and preservation of sexual
assault collection kits shall conduct a physical inventory of all of the kits
that are being stored by the agency and shall compile, in writing, a report
containing the number of untested sexual assault collection kits in the
possession of the agency, the date the sexual assault kit was collected and the
reason why the kit is currently untested. Each criminal justice agency shall
also provide written notification if it does not have any untested sexual
assault collection kits in its possession. Each agency shall transmit the
report to the director of the department of public safety's crime laboratory.
B.On or before March 1, 2017, the department of
public safety crime laboratory shall prepare and transmit a report to the
chairman of the senate judiciary committee and the chairman of the house of
representatives judiciary committee containing the number of untested sexual
assault collection kits that are being stored by each criminal justice agency,
the date the untested kit was collected and any reasons why the kits are
untested. The report must also include the name and contact information of
each criminal justice agency that failed to submit the report required by
subsection A of this section.
C.For the purposes of this section:
1."Criminal justice agency" means any
government agency, subunit of an agency or private agency that, through
statutory authorization or a legal formal agreement with a governmental unit or
agency, has the power of investigation, arrest, detention, prosecution,
adjudication, treatment, supervision, rehabilitation or release of persons
suspected, charged or convicted of a crime or that collects, stores, processes,
transmits or disseminates criminal history record or crime information.
2."Forensic medical examination" means an
examination provided to the victim of a sexually oriented criminal offense by a
health care provider for the purpose of gathering and preserving evidence of a
sexual assault for use in a court of law.
3."Sexual assault collection kit" means a
human biological specimen or specimens collected from the victim of a sexually
oriented criminal offense by a health care provider during a forensic medical
examination.
4."Sexually oriented criminal offense"
includes sexual abuse pursuant to section 131404, Arizona Revised
Statutes, and sexual assault pursuant to section 131406, Arizona Revised
Statutes.
5. "Untested sexual assault collection kit" means a
sexual assault collection kit that has not been submitted to the department of
public safety's crime laboratory or a similar qualified laboratory for either a
serology or deoxyribonucleic acid test.

