







REFERENCE TITLE: empowerment scholarships; persons with
  disabilities







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1457









Introduced by
Senators
  Bradley, Begay, Lesko, Yarbrough: Allen S





AN ACT

amending sections
152401 and 152402, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to arizona
empowerment scholarship accounts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Annual
education plan" means an initial individualized EVALUATION and subsequent
annual reviews that are developed for a qualified student who meets the
criteria specified in paragraph 7, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii)
or (iii) of this section
to determine ongoing annual eligibility through the school year in which the
qualified student reaches twentytwo years of age.
1.2."Curriculum"
means a complete course of study for a particular content area or grade level,
including any supplemental materials required by the curriculum.
2.3."Department"
means the department of education.
3.4."Eligible
postsecondary institution" means a community college as defined in section
151401, a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of
regents or an accredited private postsecondary institution.
4.5."Parent"
means a resident of this state who is the parent or legal guardian of a
qualified student.
5.6."Qualified
school" means a nongovernmental primary or secondary school or a preschool
for pupils with disabilities that is located in this state and that does not
discriminate on the basis of race, color or national origin.
6.7."Qualified
student" means a resident of this state who:
(a)Is any of the following:
(i)Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 (29 United States Code section 794).
(ii)Identified by a school district or by an
independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I as a
child with a disability as defined in section 15761.
(iii)A child with a disability who is eligible to
receive services from a school district under section 15763.
(iv)Attending a school or school district that has
been assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241 or who
is currently eligible to attend kindergarten and who resides within the
attendance boundary of a school that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F
pursuant to section 15241.
(v)A previous recipient of a scholarship issued
pursuant to section 15891 or this section.
(vi)A child of a parent who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vii)A child with a guardian who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(viii)A child who is a ward of the juvenile court
and who is residing with a prospective permanent placement pursuant to section
8862 and the case plan is adoption or permanent guardianship.
(ix)A child who was a ward of the juvenile court
and who achieved permanency through adoption or permanent guardianship.
(x)A child who is the sibling of a current or
previous empowerment scholarship account recipient.
(xi)A child who resides within the boundaries of an
Indian reservation in this state.
(b)And, except as provided in subdivision (a),
items (vi) and (vii) of this paragraph, who meets any of the following
requirements:
(i)Attended a governmental primary or secondary
school as a fulltime student as defined in section 15901 for at
least the first one hundred days of the prior fiscal year and who transferred
from a governmental primary or secondary school under a contract to participate
in an empowerment scholarship account.
(ii)Previously participated in the empowerment
scholarship account program.
(iii)Received a scholarship under section 431505
and who continues to attend a qualified school if the student attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a fulltime student as
defined in section 15901 for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal
year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified school.
(iv)Was eligible for an Arizona scholarship for
pupils with disabilities and received monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 or received an Arizona scholarship for pupils
with disabilities but did not receive monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 and who continues to attend a qualified
school if the student attended a governmental primary or secondary school as a
fulltime student as defined in section 15-901 for at least ninety days
of the prior fiscal year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified
school.
(v)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a
kindergarten program in a school district or charter school in this state.
(vi)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a program
for preschool children with disabilities in this state.
7.8."Treasurer"
means the office of the state treasurer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-2402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2402.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts; funds
A.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts are
established to provide options for the education of students in this state.
B.To enroll a qualified student for an empowerment
scholarship account, the parent of the qualified student must sign an agreement
to do all of the following:
1.Use a portion of the empowerment scholarship
account monies allocated each quarter to provide an education for the qualified
student in at least the subjects of reading, grammar, mathematics, social
studies and science, unless the empowerment scholarship account is allocated
monies according to a transfer schedule other than quarterly transfers pursuant
to section 152403, subsection F.
2.Not enroll the qualified student in a school
district or charter school and release the school district from all obligations
to educate the qualified student. This paragraph does not relieve the school
district or charter school that the qualified student previously attended from
the obligation to conduct an evaluation pursuant to section 15766.
3.Not accept a scholarship from a school tuition
organization pursuant to title 43 concurrently with an empowerment scholarship
account for the qualified student in the same year a parent signs the agreement
pursuant to this section.
4.Use the money deposited in the qualified
student's Arizona empowerment scholarship account only for the following
expenses of the qualified student:
(a)Tuition or fees at a qualified school.
(b)Textbooks required by a qualified school.
(c)Educational therapies or services from a
licensed or accredited practitioner or provider, including licensed or
accredited paraprofessionals or educational aides, if the qualified student
meets any of the criteria specified in section 152401, paragraph 6 7, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) as
determined by a school district or by an independent third party pursuant to
section 152403, subsection I.
(d)Tutoring or teaching services provided by an
individual or facility accredited by a state, regional or national accrediting
organization.
(e)Curriculum
curricula.
(f)Tuition or fees for a nonpublic online learning
program.
(g)Fees for a nationally standardized
norm-referenced achievement test, an advanced placement examination or any
exams related to college or university admission.
(h)Contributions to a Coverdell education savings
account established pursuant to 26 United States Code section 530 for the
benefit of the qualified student, except that money used for elementary or
secondary education expenses must be for expenses otherwise allowed under this
section.
(i)Tuition or fees at an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(j)Textbooks required by an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(k)Fees for management of the empowerment
scholarship account by firms selected by the treasurer.
(l)Services provided by a public school, including
individual classes and extracurricular programs.
(m)Insurance or surety bond payments as required by
the department of education.
(n)Beginning January 1, 2017, If the qualified
student meets the criteria specified in section 152401, paragraph 7,
subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) and if the qualified student is in the final year of a
contract executed pursuant to this article, costs associated with an annual
education plan conducted by an independent evaluation team. The department
shall prescribe minimum qualifications for independent evaluation teams
pursuant to this subdivision and factors that teams must use to determine
whether the qualified student shall be eligible to continue to receive monies
pursuant to this article through the school year in which the qualified student
reaches twenty-two years of age. An independent evaluation team that provides
an annual education plan pursuant to this subdivision shall submit a written
report that summarizes the results of the evaluation to the parent of the
qualified student and to the department on or before July 31.The
written report submitted by the independent evaluation team is valid for one
year.If the department determines that the qualified student meets
the eligibility criteria prescribed in the annual education plan, the qualified
student is eligible to continue to receive monies PURSUANT to this article
until the QUALIFIED student reaches twentytwo years of age, subject to
annual review. A parent may appeal the department's decision PURSUANT to title
41, chapter 6, article 10. As an addendum to a qualified student's final-year
contract, the department shall provide the following written information to the
parent of the QUALIFIED student:
(i)That the qualified student will
not be eligible to continue to receive monies pursuant to this article unless
the results of an annual education plan conducted pursuant to this subdivision
demonstrate that the qualified student meets the eligibility criteria
prescribed in the annual education plan.
(ii)That the parent is entitled to
obtain an annual education plan pursuant to this subdivision to determine
whether the qualified student meets the eligibility criteria prescribed in the
annual education plan.
(iii)A list of independent evaluation
teams that meet the minimum qualifications prescribed by the department
pursuant to this subdivision. 
5.Not file an affidavit of intent to homeschool
pursuant to section 15802, subsection B, paragraph 2 or 3.
6.Not use monies deposited in the qualified
student's account for any of the following:
(a)Computer hardware or other technological
devices.
(b)Transportation of the pupil.
(c)Consumable educational supplies, including
paper, pens or markers.
C.In exchange for the parent's agreement pursuant
to subsection B of this section, the department shall transfer from the monies
that would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's prior school district, or if
the child is currently eligible to attend kindergarten, the monies that the
department determines would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's expected
school district of attendance, to the treasurer for deposit into an Arizona
empowerment scholarship account an amount that is equivalent to ninety per cent percent of the sum of the base support level
and additional assistance prescribed in sections 15185 and 15943
for that particular student if that student were attending a charter school.
The department may retain up to five per
cent percent of
the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account for deposit in the department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund established in subsection D of this section, out of
which the department shall transfer one per
cent percent of
the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account to the state treasurer for deposit in the state treasurer
empowerment scholarship account fund established in subsection E of this
section.
D.The department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund is established consisting of monies retained by the
department pursuant to subsection C of this section. The department shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation. Monies in the fund shall be used for the department's costs in
administering empowerment scholarship accounts under this chapter. Monies in
the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. If the number of empowerment scholarship accounts
significantly increases after fiscal year 20122013, the department may
request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any subsequent
fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
E.The state treasurer empowerment scholarship
account fund is established consisting of monies transferred by the department
to the state treasurer pursuant to subsection C of this section. The state
treasurer shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for the
state treasurer's costs in administering the empowerment scholarship accounts
under this chapter.If the number of empowerment scholarship
accounts significantly increases after fiscal year 20132014, the state
treasurer may request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any
subsequent fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
F.A parent must renew the qualified student's
empowerment scholarship account on an annual basis.Notwithstanding
any changes to the student's multidisciplinary evaluation team plan, a student
who has previously qualified for an empowerment scholarship account shall
remain eligible to apply for renewal until the student finishes high school.
G.A signed agreement under this section constitutes
school attendance required by section 15802.
H.A qualified school or a provider of services
purchased pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 4 of this section may not share,
refund or rebate any Arizona empowerment scholarship account monies with the
parent or qualified student in any manner.
I.On the qualified student's graduation from a
postsecondary institution or after any period of four consecutive years after
high school graduation in which the student is not enrolled in an eligible
postsecondary institution, the qualified student's Arizona empowerment
scholarship account shall be closed and any remaining funds shall be returned
to the state.
J.Monies received pursuant to this article do not
constitute taxable income to the parent of the qualified student. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Annual education plan development council; membership;
duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The annual education plan development council is
established in the department of education to develop eligibility criteria to
determine if a qualified student who meets the criteria specified in section
15-2401, paragraph 7, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii), Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, is eligible to receive empowerment
scholarship account monies beyond eighteen years of age.
B.The council shall:
1.Develop the eligibility criteria in the form of
an annual education plan.
2.If sufficient monies are available for this
purpose, approve a request for proposals issued by the department of education
for independent evaluation teams to conduct annual education plans.
3.Review the department's rules concerning annual
education plans.
4.Submit a report of its findings and
recommendations to the superintendent of public instruction on or before
December 31, 2016.
C.The council may make recommendations to the
department of education.
D.The department of education shall select the
members of the council and shall include practitioners in the field of special
education and parents of current or previous qualified students who meet the
criteria specified in section 15-2401, paragraph 7, subdivision (a), item (i),
(ii) or (iii), Arizona Revised Statutes.
E.Members of the council are not eligible to
receive compensation
F.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2016.

