







REFERENCE TITLE: homeowners' associations; managers;
  licensure; hearings







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1499









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D: Donahue; Representative Lawrence





AN ACT

amending title
32, chapter 20, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding SECTION
32-2122.01; amending title 32, chapter 20, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes,
by adding sections 32-2167, 32-2167.01, 32-2167.02, 32-2167.03, 322167.04
and 32-2167.05; amending sections 33-1242, 33-1803, 41-2198, 412198.01,
41-2198.02 and 41-2198.03, arizona revised statutes; repealing section
41-2198.05, arizona revised statutes; appropriating monies; relating to
community managers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 32, chapter 20, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-2122.01, to read:
START_STATUTE32-2122.01.Licensure of condominium, planned community managers;
rules
A.Any
person that is engaged in the business of management of a condominium
association as defined in section 33-1202 or a planned community association as
defined in section 33-1802 shall obtain a license as a community manager as
prescribed in this section.
B.The
department through the commissioner shall establish by rule a licensure
procedure for community managers that shall include mandatory instruction in
matters relating to the management of condominiums and planned communities and
a licensure test. The DEPARTMENT may charge a fee for licensure and for test
administration that shall be established by rule by the commissioner.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 32, chapter 20, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 32-2167, 32-2167.01,
32-2167.02, 32-2167.03, 322167.04 and 32-2167.05, to read:
START_STATUTE32-2167.Administrative adjudication of complaints
Pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10, an
administrative law judge shall adjudicate complaints regarding and ensure
compliance with:
1.Title 33,
chapter 9 and condominium documents.
2.Title 33,
chapter 16 and planned community documents. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE32-2167.01.Hearing; rights and procedures
A.For a
dispute between an owner and a condominium association or planned community
association that is regulated pursuant to title 33, chapter 9 or 16, the owner
or association may petition the department for a hearing concerning violations
of condominium documents or planned community documents or violations of the
statutes that regulate condominiums or planned communities. The petitioner
shall file a petition with the department and pay a filing fee in an amount to
be established by the commissioner. The filing fee shall be deposited in the
condominium and planned community hearing office fund established by section
32-2167.05.On dismissal of a petition at the request of the
petitioner before a hearing is scheduled or by stipulation of the parties
before a hearing is scheduled, the filing fee shall be refunded to the petitioner.
The department does not have jurisdiction to hear:
1.Any
dispute among or between owners to which the association is not a party.
2.Any
dispute between an owner and any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or other organization that is engaged in the business of designing,
constructing or selling a condominium as defined in section 331202 or
any property or improvements within a planned community as defined in section
331802, including any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association
or other organization licensed pursuant to this chapter, arising out of or
related to the design, construction, condition or sale of the condominium or
any property or improvements within a planned community.
B.The
petition shall be in writing on a form approved by the department, shall list
the complaints and shall be signed by or on behalf of the persons filing and
include their addresses, stating that a hearing is desired, and shall be filed
with the department.
C.On
receipt of the petition and the filing fee the department shall mail by
certified mail a copy of the petition along with notice to the named respondent
that a response is required within twenty days after mailing of the petition
showing cause, if any, why the petition should be dismissed.
D.After
receiving the response, the commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall
promptly review the petition for hearing and, if justified, refer the petition
to the department for an administrative hearing.The commissioner may
dismiss a petition for hearing if it appears to the commissioner's satisfaction
that the disputed issue or issues have been resolved by the parties.
E.Failure
of the respondent to answer is deemed an admission of the allegations made in
the petition, and the commissioner shall issue a default decision.
F.Informal
disposition may be made of any contested case.
G.Either
party or the party's authorized agent may inspect any file of the department
that pertains to the hearing, if the authorization is filed in writing with the
department.
H.At a
hearing conducted pursuant to this section, a corporation may be represented by
a corporate officer, employee or contractor of the corporation who is not a
member of the state bar if:
1.The
corporation has specifically authorized the officer, employee or contractor of
the corporation to represent it.
2.The
representation is not the officer's, employee's or contractor of the
corporation's primary duty to the corporation but is secondary or incidental to
the officer's, employee's or contractor of the corporation's, limited liability
company's, limited liability partnership's, sole proprietor's or other lawfully
formed and operating entity's duties relating to the management or operation of
the corporation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE32-2167.02.Orders; penalties; disposition
A.The
administrative law judge may order any party to abide by the statute,
condominium documents or community documents at issue and may levy a civil
penalty on the basis of each violation.All monies collected from
disputes involving condominiums or planned communities as prescribed in section
32-2167.01 shall be deposited in the condominium and planned community hearing office
fund established by section 32-2167.05.If the petitioner prevails,
the administrative law judge shall order the respondent to pay to the
petitioner the filing fee required by section 32-2167.01.
B.The order
issued by the administrative law judge is binding on the parties unless a
rehearing is granted pursuant to section 32-2167.04 based on a petition setting
forth the reasons for the request for rehearing, in which case the order issued
at the conclusion of the rehearing is binding on the parties.The
order issued by the administrative law judge is enforceable through contempt of
court proceedings and is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12,
chapter 7, article 6.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE32-2167.03.Nonexclusive remedy
This section does not
limit the jurisdiction of the courts of this state to hear and decide matters
pursuant to the statutes or condominium documents that regulate condominiums or
the statutes or community documents that regulate planned communities.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE32-2167.04.Rehearing; appeal
A.A person
aggrieved by a decision of the administrative law judge may apply for a
rehearing by filing with the commissioner a petition in writing pursuant to
section 411092.09.Within ten days after filing such
petition, the commissioner shall serve notice of the request on the other party
by mailing a copy of the petition in the manner prescribed in section
32-2167.01 for notice of hearing.
B.The filing of a petition for rehearing
temporarily suspends the operation of the administrative law judge's
action.If the petition is granted, the administrative law judge's
action is suspended pending the decision on the rehearing.
C.In the
order granting or denying a rehearing, the commissioner shall include a
statement of the particular grounds and reasons for the commissioner's action
on the petition and shall promptly mail a copy of the order to the parties who
have appeared in support of or in opposition to the petition for rehearing.
D.In a
rehearing conducted pursuant to this section, a corporation may be represented
by a corporate officer or employee who is not a member of the state bar if:
1.The
corporation has specifically authorized the officer or employee to represent
it.
2.Such
representation is not the officer's or employee's primary duty to the
corporation but is secondary or incidental to the officer's or employee's
duties relating to the management or operation of the corporation.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE32-2167.05.Condominium and planned community hearing office fund
A.The
condominium and planned community hearing office fund is established in the
department to be administered by the commissioner. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated. On notice from the commissioner, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section
35-313, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
B.Monies in
the condominium and planned community hearing office fund shall be used to
reimburse the actual costs of the department in conducting hearings pursuant to
section 32-2167.01.Monies remaining in the fund may be used by the
department to offset the costs of administering cases filed pursuant to section
32-2167.01.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 33-1242, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1242.Powers of unit owners' association; notice to unit owner
of violation
A.Subject to the provisions of the declaration, the
association may:
1.Adopt and amend bylaws and rules.
2.Adopt and amend budgets for revenues,
expenditures and reserves and collect assessments for common expenses from unit
owners.
3.Hire and discharge managing agents and other
employees, agents and independent contractors.
4.Institute, defend or intervene in litigation or
administrative proceedings in its own name on behalf of itself or two or more
unit owners on matters affecting the condominium.
5.Make contracts and incur liabilities.
6.Regulate the use, maintenance, repair,
replacement and modification of common elements.
7.Cause additional improvements to be made as a
part of the common elements.
8.Acquire, hold, encumber and convey in its own
name any right, title or interest to real or personal property, except that
common elements may be conveyed or subjected to a security interest only
pursuant to section 331252.
9.Grant easements, leases, licenses and concessions
through or over the common elements.
10.Impose and receive any payments, fees or charges
for the use, rental or operation of the common elements other than limited
common elements described in section 331212, paragraphs 2 and 4 and for
services provided to unit owners.
11.Impose charges for late payment of assessments
and, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, impose reasonable monetary
penalties upon unit owners for violations of the declaration, bylaws and rules
of the association.
12.Impose reasonable charges for the preparation
and recordation of amendments to the declaration or statements of unpaid
assessments.
13.Provide for the indemnification of its officers
and executive board of directors and maintain directors' and officers'
liability insurance.
14.Assign its right to future income, including the
right to receive common expense assessments, but only to the extent the
declaration expressly provides.
15.Be a member of a master association or other
entity owning, maintaining or governing in any respect any portion of the
common elements or other property benefitting or related to the condominium or
the unit owners in any respect.
16.Exercise any other powers conferred by the
declaration or bylaws.
17.Exercise all other powers that may be exercised
in this state by legal entities of the same type as the association.
18.Exercise any other powers necessary and proper
for the governance and operation of the association.
B.A unit owner who receives a written notice that
the condition of the property owned by the unit owner is in violation of a
requirement of the condominium documents without regard to whether a monetary
penalty is imposed by the notice may provide the association with a written
response by sending the response by certified mail within ten business days
after the date of the notice. The response shall be sent to the address
identified in the notice.
C.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the unit owner, the association
shall respond to the unit owner with a written explanation regarding the notice
that shall provide at least the following information unless previously
provided in the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the condominium documents that
has allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the unit owner must follow to contest
the notice.
D.Unless the information required in subsection C,
paragraph 4 of this section is provided in the notice of violation, the
association shall not proceed with any action to enforce the condominium
documents, including the collection of attorney fees, before or during the time
prescribed by subsection C of this section regarding the exchange of
information between the association and the unit owner. At any time before or
after completion of the exchange of information pursuant to this section, the
unit owner may petition for a hearing pursuant to section 412198.01 32-2167.01 if the dispute is within the
jurisdiction of the state real estate department
of fire, building and life safety
as prescribed in section 412198.01,
subsection B 32-2167.01.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 33-1803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1803.Penalties; notice to member of violation
A.Unless limitations in the community documents
would result in a lower limit for the assessment, the association shall not
impose a regular assessment that is more than twenty percent greater than the
immediately preceding fiscal year's assessment without the approval of the
majority of the members of the association. Unless reserved to the members of
the association, the board of directors may impose reasonable charges for the
late payment of assessments. A payment by a member is deemed late if it is
unpaid fifteen or more days after its due date, unless the community documents
provide for a longer period. Charges for the late payment of assessments are
limited to the greater of fifteen dollars or ten percent of the amount of the
unpaid assessment. Any monies paid by the member for an unpaid assessment
shall be applied first to the principal amount unpaid and then to the interest
accrued.
B.After notice and an opportunity to be heard, the
board of directors may impose reasonable monetary penalties on members for
violations of the declaration, bylaws and rules of the association. Notwithstanding
any provision in the community documents, the board of directors shall not
impose a charge for a late payment of a penalty that exceeds the greater of
fifteen dollars or ten percent of the amount of the unpaid
penalty.A payment is deemed late if it is unpaid fifteen or more
days after its due date, unless the declaration, bylaws or rules of the
association provide for a longer period. Any monies paid by a member for an
unpaid penalty shall be applied first to the principal amount unpaid and then to
the interest accrued.Notice pursuant to this subsection shall
include information pertaining to the manner in which the penalty shall be
enforced.
C.A member who receives a written notice that the
condition of the property owned by the member is in violation of the community
documents without regard to whether a monetary penalty is imposed by the notice
may provide the association with a written response by sending the response by
certified mail within ten business days after the date of the notice. The
response shall be sent to the address identified in the notice.
D.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the member, the association shall
respond to the member with a written explanation regarding the notice that
shall provide at least the following information unless previously provided in
the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the community documents that has
allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the member must follow to contest the
notice.
E.Unless the information required in subsection D,
paragraph 4 of this section is provided in the notice of violation, the
association shall not proceed with any action to enforce the community
documents, including the collection of attorney fees, before or during the time
prescribed by subsection D of this section regarding the exchange of information
between the association and the member. At any time before or after completion
of the exchange of information pursuant to this section, the member may
petition for a hearing pursuant to section 412198.01 32-2167.01 if the dispute is within the
jurisdiction of the state real estate department
of fire, building and life safety
as prescribed in section 412198.01,
subsection B 32-2167.01.
END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
41-2198, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2198.Administrative adjudication of complaints
Pursuant to chapter 6, article 10 of this title, an
administrative law judge shall adjudicate complaints regarding and ensure
compliance with:
1.the
Arizona mobile home parks residential landlord and tenant act. 
2.Title 33,
chapter 9 and condominium documents.
3.Title 33,
chapter 16 and planned community documents.END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 41-2198.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2198.01.Hearing; rights and procedures
A.A person who is subject to title 33, chapter 11
or a party to a rental agreement entered into pursuant to title 33, chapter 11
may petition the department for a hearing concerning violations of the Arizona
mobile home parks residential landlord and tenant act by filing a petition with
the department and paying a nonrefundable filing fee in an amount to be established by the
director.All monies collected shall be deposited in the state
general fund and are not refundable.
B.For a
dispute between an owner and a condominium association or planned community
association that is regulated pursuant to title 33, chapter 9 or 16, the owner
or association may petition the department for a hearing concerning violations
of condominium documents or planned community documents or violations of the
statutes that regulate condominiums or planned communities. The petitioner
shall file a petition with the department and pay a filing fee in an amount to
be established by the director. The filing fee shall be deposited in the
condominium and planned community hearing office fund established by section 412198.05.On
dismissal of a petition at the request of the petitioner before a hearing is
scheduled or by stipulation of the parties before a hearing is scheduled, the
filing fee shall be refunded to the petitioner. The department does not have
jurisdiction to hear:
1.Any dispute
among or between owners to which the association is not a party.
2.Any dispute
between an owner and any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or
other organization that is engaged in the business of designing, constructing
or selling a condominium as defined in section 331202 or any property or
improvements within a planned community as defined in section 331802,
including any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 20, arising out of or
related to the design, construction, condition or sale of the condominium or
any property or improvements within a planned community.
C.b.The petition
shall be in writing on a form approved by the department, shall list the
complaints and shall be signed by or on behalf of the persons filing and
include their addresses, stating that a hearing is desired, and shall be filed
with the department.
D.c.On receipt of the
petition and the filing fee the department shall mail by certified mail a copy
of the petition along with notice to the named respondent that a response is
required within twenty days of
after mailing of the
petition showing cause, if any, why the petition should be dismissed.
E.d.After receiving
the response, the director or the director's designee shall promptly review the
petition for hearing and, if justified, refer the petition to the office of
administrative hearings.The director may dismiss a petition for
hearing if it appears to the director's satisfaction that the disputed issue or
issues have been resolved by the parties.
F.e.Failure of the
respondent to answer is deemed an admission of the allegations made in the
petition, and the director shall issue a default decision.
G.f.Informal
disposition may be made of any contested case.
H.g.Either party or
the party's authorized agent may inspect any file of the department that
pertains to the hearing, if the authorization is filed in writing with the
department.
I.h.At a hearing
conducted pursuant to this section, a corporation may be represented by a
corporate officer, employee or contractor of the corporation who is not a
member of the state bar if:
1.The corporation has specifically authorized the
officer, employee or contractor of the corporation to represent it.
2.The representation is not the officer's,
employee's or contractor of the corporation's primary duty to the corporation
but is secondary or incidental to the officer's, employee's or contractor of
the corporation's, limited liability company's, limited liability
partnership's, sole proprietor's or other lawfully formed and operating
entity's duties relating to the management or operation of the corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 41-2198.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2198.02.Orders; penalties; disposition
A.The administrative law judge may order any party
to abide by the statute, condominium
documents, community documents or contract provision at issue and
may levy a civil penalty on the basis of each violation.For purposes of actions brought under the
Arizona mobile home parks residential landlord and tenant act, the civil
penalty that shall
not exceed five hundred dollars. All monies collected pursuant to this article
shall be deposited in the state general fund to be used to offset the cost of
administering the administrative law judge function, except that monies collected from disputes involving
condominiums or planned communities as prescribed in section 412198.01,
subsection B shall be deposited in the condominium and planned community
hearing office fund established by section 412198.05.If
the petitioner prevails, the administrative law judge shall order the
respondent to pay to the petitioner the filing fee required by section 412198.01.
B.The order issued by the administrative law judge
is binding on the parties unless a rehearing is granted pursuant to section 412198.04
based on a petition setting forth the reasons for the request for rehearing, in
which case the order issued at the conclusion of the rehearing is binding on
the parties.The order issued by the administrative law judge is
enforceable through contempt of court proceedings and is subject to judicial
review as prescribed by section 411092.08.END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 41-2198.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2198.03.Scope of hearing
A.The administrative law judge may hear and
adjudicate all matters relating to the Arizona mobile home parks residential
landlord and tenant act and rules adopted pursuant to this article, except that
the administrative law judge shall not hear matters pertaining to rental
increases pursuant to section 331413, subsection G or I.
B.This section shall not be construed to limit the
jurisdiction of the courts of this state to hear and decide matters pursuant to
the Arizona mobile home parks residential landlord and tenant act, the statutes or condominium documents that regulate
condominiums or the statutes or community documents that regulate planned
communities. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Repeal; transfer of monies
A.Section 41-2198.05,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
B.All unexpended and unencumbered monies remaining
in the condominium and planned community hearing office fund established by
section 41-2198.05, Arizona Revised Statutes, as repealed by subsection A of
this section, are transferred to the condominium and planned community hearing
office fund established by section 32-2167.05, Arizona Revised Statutes, on the
effective date of this section.

