







REFERENCE TITLE: joint select committee on corrections.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1472









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Dalessandro, Farley, Meza, Quezada, Sherwood; Representative Alston:
  Senators Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Contreras, Miranda, Pancrazi





AN ACT

Amending title
41, chapter 11, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
41-1610.02; relating to the state department of corrections.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 11, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-1610.02, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1610.02.Joint select committee on corrections; membership;
meetings; staffing; duties; report; committee termination
A.The joint
select committee on corrections is established consisting of the following
members:
1.Three members of the senate two of whom are
appointed by the president of the senate and one of whom is appointed by the
minority leader of the senate.
2.Three members of the house of representatives
two of whom are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and
one of whom is appointed by the minority leader of the house of
representatives.
3.The governor or the governor's designee.
4.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
5.The director of the department of
administration or the director's designee.
B.Members of the committee shall elect a
chairperson from the membership of the committee at the first committee
meeting.
C.Members serving pursuant to subsection A,
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this section are nonvoting members and are not members
for purposes of determining a quorum. A quorum consists of four voting
members.
D.The committee shall meet at least two times
each year and any other time that the chairperson deems necessary or on the
call of the majority of the voting committee members.
E.Members of the committee are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2.
F.The legislature shall provide staff and
clerical support to the committee and shall advise and assist the committee in
performing its responsibilities. Persons representing the state department of
corrections and the department of administration shall provide information and
technical assistance to the committee.
G.The committee shall receive testimony from the
department of administration regarding the construction schedule of prison beds
previously authorized by the legislature.
H.The committee shall receive testimony from the
state department of corrections regarding the actual and anticipated growth or
decline in the department's inmate population and the conditions of confinement
of the inmate population, including information and data on:
1.The number and causes of death of inmates.
2.Complaints filed by inmates and the
department's responses to those complaints.
3.Inmate food services.
4.Air conditioning and heating systems within
each prison.
I.The committee shall review and make
recommendations to the legislature regarding future prisons and capital
investments to improve the conditions of confinement and working conditions for
corrections staff.
J.The committee may consider other matters
relating to prison construction or prison operations and may make
recommendations to the legislature.
K.The committee shall review private
incarceration facilities sites pursuant to section 41-1609.02.
L.The committee shall prepare and submit an
annual report of the recommendations of the committee to the governor, the
president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives on or
before October 15 and provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
M.The committee established by this section ends
on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section 41-3103. END_STATUTE

