







REFERENCE TITLE: adjustable consumer loans; licensure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1427









Introduced by
Senator
  Farnsworth D





AN ACT

amending sections
6-125 and 6-126, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 6, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding chapter 18; relating to consumer loans.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-125, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6125.Annual examination assessment of financial institutions
and enterprises; costs of foreign examination; payment
A.Before August 31 of each year the superintendent
shall make the following annual assessments:
1.Upon On banks, the annual
assessment set by the superintendent.
2.Upon On savings and loan
associations, a charge not to exceed the annual assessment set for state banks
under paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.Upon On credit unions, the annual
assessment set by the superintendent.
B.The superintendent shall assess against the
institution or enterprise examined a charge at the rate set by the
superintendent but not to exceed sixtyfive dollars per hour for each
examiner employed in the following examinations:
1.Any examination of a trust company.
2.Any examination of the trust operation of a bank
or a savings and loan association.
3.Any examination of a financial institution
ordered by the superintendent in addition to the regular examination required
under section 6122.
4.Any examination of an enterprise ordered by the
superintendent.
5.Any examination of a financial institution
holding company or international banking facility.
6.Any examination of a consumer lender.
7.Any
examination of an adjustable loan lender.
C.For a financial institution or enterprise
maintaining an office outside this state, in addition to the annual assessment
or examination assessment, the superintendent shall make an assessment equal to
the travel and subsistence expense incurred in the examination of the office in
the foreign state or country.Notwithstanding any other limitation
prescribed by law, examiners engaged in examination of a foreign office shall
be reimbursed for their necessary travel and subsistence expenses.
Reimbursement for examiners' expenses shall be credited to the appropriation
account of the department.
D.Assessments under this section are due and
payable to the department within thirty days after notice of the assessment is
mailed by the department.The superintendent shall assess a penalty
of fifty dollars for each day after the thirtyday period that the
financial institution or enterprise fails to remit the assessment, unless, upon on good cause shown, a written request for an
extension is approved by the superintendent prior to the expiration of the
specified time.In no event shall the total penalty exceed the
examination assessment.
E.The superintendent shall set the amount of the
annual assessment to be charged to banks and credit unions.In
setting the annual assessment upon on banks, the superintendent
shall consider the annual assessment set by the comptroller of currency for
national banks.In setting the annual assessment upon on
credit unions the superintendent shall consider the annual assessment set by
the national credit union administration for federal credit unions. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 6-126, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-126.Application fees for financial institutions and
enterprises
A.The following nonrefundable fees are payable to
the department with the filing of the following applications:
1.To apply for a banking permit, five thousand
dollars.
2.To apply for an amendment to a banking or savings
and loan association permit, one thousand dollars.
3.To establish each banking branch office, seven
hundred fifty dollars.
4.To move a banking office to other than an
established office of a bank, one thousand dollars.
5.To apply for a savings and loan association
permit, five thousand dollars.
6.To establish each savings and loan association
branch office, one thousand five hundred dollars.
7.To move an office of a savings and loan
association to other than an established office, one thousand dollars.
8.To organize and establish a credit union, one
hundred dollars.
9.To establish each credit union branch or to move
a credit union office to other than an established office of a credit union,
two hundred fifty dollars.
10.To organize and establish any other financial
institutions for which an application or investigation fee is not otherwise
provided by law, two thousand five hundred dollars.
11.To acquire control of a financial institution,
other than a consumer lender, five thousand dollars.
12.To apply for a trust company license, five
thousand dollars.
13.To apply for a commercial mortgage banker,
mortgage banker, escrow agent or consumer lender license, one thousand five
hundred dollars.
14.To apply for a mortgage broker, commercial
mortgage broker, sales finance company or debt management company license,
eight hundred dollars.
15.To apply for a collection agency license, one
thousand five hundred dollars.
16.To apply for a deferred presentment company
license, one thousand dollars.
17.To apply for a motor vehicle dealer license,
three hundred dollars.
18.To apply for a branch office of an escrow agent,
a consumer lender, an adjustable loan lender, a commercial
mortgage banker, a mortgage
banker, a trust company, a money transmitter, a collection agency or a deferred presentment company,
five hundred dollars.
19.To apply for a branch office of a mortgage
broker, commercial mortgage broker, debt management company or sales finance
company, two hundred fifty dollars.
20.To apply for approval of the articles of
incorporation of a business development corporation, five hundred dollars.
21.To apply for approval for the merger or
consolidation of two or more financial institutions, five thousand dollars per
institution.
22.To apply for approval to convert from a national
bank or federal savings and loan charter to a state chartered institution, five
thousand dollars.
23.To apply for approval to convert from a federal
credit union to a state chartered credit union, one thousand dollars.
24.To apply for approval to merge or consolidate
two or more credit unions, five hundred dollars per credit union.
25.To move an established office of an enterprise
to other than an established office, fifty dollars.
26.To issue a duplicate or replace a lost
enterprise's license, one hundred dollars.
27.To change a responsible person on a mortgage
broker's, commercial mortgage broker's, commercial mortgage banker's or a
mortgage banker's license, two hundred fifty dollars.
28.To change an active manager on a collection
agency license or a manager of a money transmitter branch office license, two
hundred fifty dollars.
29.To change the licensee name on a financial
institution or enterprise license, not more than two hundred fifty dollars.
30.To apply for a money transmitter license, one
thousand five hundred dollars plus twentyfive dollars for each branch
office and authorized delegate to a maximum of four thousand five hundred
dollars.
31.To acquire control of any money transmitter or
controlling person pursuant to chapter 12 of this title, two thousand five
hundred dollars.
32.To receive the following publications:
(a)Quarterly bank and savings and loan statement of
condition, not more than ten dollars per copy.
(b)Monthly summary of actions report, not more than
five dollars per copy.
(c)A list of licensees, a monthly pending actions
report and all other inhouse prepared reports or listings made available
to the public, not more than one dollar per page.
33.To apply for a loan originator license, an
amount to be determined by the superintendent.
34.To apply for a loan originator license transfer,
an amount to be determined by the superintendent.
35.To apply for a conversion from a mortgage banker
license to a mortgage broker license, an amount to be determined by the
superintendent.
36.To apply
for an adjustable loan lender license, an amount to be determined by the
superintendent.
B.On issuance of a license or permit for a
financial institution or enterprise, the superintendent shall collect the first
year's annual assessment or renewal fee for the financial institution or
enterprise prorated according to the number of quarters remaining until the
date of the next annual assessment or renewal.
C.The following
annual renewal fees shall be paid each year:
1.For an escrow
agent, or trust company, one thousand dollars plus two hundred fifty dollars
for each branch office.
2.For a debt management company or sales finance
company, five hundred dollars plus two hundred dollars for each branch office.
3.For a collection agency, six hundred dollars plus
two hundred dollars for each branch office.
4.For a motor vehicle dealer, one hundred fifty
dollars.
5.For an inactive mortgage broker or commercial
mortgage broker, two hundred fifty dollars.
6.For a mortgage banker that negotiates or closes
in the aggregate one hundred loans or less in the immediately preceding
calendar year, seven hundred fifty dollars, and for a mortgage banker that
negotiates or closes in the aggregate over one hundred loans in the immediately
preceding calendar year, one thousand two hundred fifty dollars. In addition,
a mortgage banker shall pay two hundred fifty dollars for each branch office.
7.For a commercial mortgage banker, one thousand
two hundred fifty dollars. In addition, a commercial mortgage banker shall pay
two hundred fifty dollars for each branch office.
8.For a mortgage broker or commercial mortgage
broker that negotiates or closes in the aggregate fifty loans or less in the
immediately preceding calendar year, two hundred fifty dollars and for a
mortgage broker or commercial mortgage broker that negotiates or closes in the
aggregate more than fifty loans in the immediately preceding calendar year,
five hundred dollars. In addition, a mortgage broker or commercial mortgage
broker shall pay two hundred dollars for each branch office.
9.For a consumer lender or an adjustable loan lender, one thousand
dollars plus two hundred dollars for each branch office.
10.For a money transmitter, five hundred dollars
plus twentyfive dollars for each branch office and each authorized
delegate to a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars.
11.For a deferred presentment company, four hundred
dollars. In addition, a deferred presentment company shall pay two hundred
dollars for each branch office.
12.For a loan originator, an amount to be
determined by the superintendent.
13.For an inactive status loan originator, an
amount to be determined by the superintendent.
D.The license, renewal or branch office permit fee
for a premium finance company for each calendar year or part thereof shall not
be less than one hundred dollars or more than three hundred dollars as set by
the superintendent. If the license is issued or the branch office is opened
after June 30 in any year, the fees shall not be less than fifty dollars or
more than one hundred fifty dollars for that year. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding chapter 18, to read:
CHAPTER 18
ADJUSTABLE LOANS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE6-1801.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Adjustable
loan" means a loan made pursuant to an adjustable loan plan.
2."Adjustable
loan lender" means a person that advertises to make, solicits or holds
itself out to make or makes adjustable loans to consumers in this state.
3."Adjustable
loan plan" means a written agreement subject to this chapter between a
licensee and a consumer establishing an open-end credit plan under which the
licensee makes credit available up to the established loan limit for personal,
family or household purposes that:
(a)Is unsecured.
(b)May be without fixed maturities or limitation as to the
length of term.
(c)Is subject to prepayment in whole or in part at any time
without penalty.
4."Amount
financed" means the amount of credit extended to a consumer on an
adjustable loan determined pursuant to the truth in lending act
(P.L.90-321, 82 Stat. 146; 15 United States Code sections 1601 through
1667f).
5."Annual
percentage rate" means the measure of the cost of credit, expressed as a
yearly rate, that relates the amount and timing of value received by the
consumer to the amount and timing of payments made, determined pursuant to the
truth in lending act (P.L. 90-321, 82 Stat. 146; 15 United States Code sections
1601 through 1667f).
6."Consumer"
means an individual who obtains an adjustable loan for personal, family or
household purposes.
7."Finance
charge" means the amount payable by a consumer incident to or as a
condition of the extension of an adjustable loan but does not include other
fees allowed pursuant to section 6-1835.
8."Licensee"
means a person licensed pursuant to this chapter.
9."Regularly
engaged in the business" means either:
(a)Advertising to or any other
solicitation of a resident of this state that offers an adjustable loan and
that occurs within this state.
(b)Making three or more adjustable
loans within a calendar year to residents of this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1802.Exemptions
A.This
chapter does not apply to a person that:
1.Does
business under any other law of this state, or any other state while regulated
by a state agency of that other state, or of the United States, relating to
banks, savings banks, trust companies, savings and loan associations, profit
sharing and pension trusts, credit unions, insurance companies or receiverships
if the adjustable loan transactions are regulated by the other law or are under
the jurisdiction of a court.
2.Is
licensed as a pawnbroker pursuant to title 44, chapter 11, article 3 to the
extent that the person's activities are governed by that article.
3.Is not
regularly engaged in the business of making adjustable loans.
4.Is
licensed pursuant to chapter 5 of this title or acting pursuant to title 44,
chapter 2.1 to the extent that the person's activities are governed by that
chapter.
B.The
requirements of this chapter do not apply to:
1.Open-end
loans of more than three thousand dollars.
2.Advances
on open-end revolving loans that are not secured by the consumer's principal
residence with an agreed on credit limit of more than three thousand dollars,
regardless of the amount of any advances on these revolving loans.
3.Consumer
loans made under chapter 5 of this title.
4.Adjustable
loans that are lawfully made to nonresidents of this state pursuant to an
adjustable loan law of another state similar in principle to this chapter.
5.Educational
loans that are either:
(a)Made, insured or guaranteed pursuant to a program authorized
by the United States, this state or any other state.
(b)Made by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code to students who attend
postsecondary educational institutions in this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1803.License; applicability; contents of application; fees;
nontransferable
A.Unless
exempt under section 6-1802, a person, whether located in this state or in
another state, may not engage in the business of an adjustable loan without
first being licensed as an adjustable loan lender by the superintendent.
B.This
chapter applies to any person that seeks to avoid its application by any
device, subterfuge or pretense.
C.Each
applicant for a license shall submit an application in writing, under oath and
in the form prescribed by the superintendent. The superintendent may require
as part of an application any other information that the superintendent deems
necessary.
D.At the
time of filing an application for a license, an applicant shall pay to the
superintendent the fee prescribed in section 6-126.
E.Before
June 30 of each year, each licensee may obtain a renewal of a license by filing
an application in the form prescribed by the superintendent and paying the fee
prescribed in section 6-126.
F.The
superintendent may deny a license to a person if the superintendent finds that
an applicant:
1.Is
insolvent as defined in section 47-1201.
2.Has
failed to demonstrate the financial responsibility, experience, character and
general fitness to command the confidence of the public and to warrant the
belief that the business will be operated lawfully, honestly, fairly and
efficiently within the purposes of this chapter.
3.Has
failed to pay the license fee.
4.Has
failed to have at least twenty-five thousand dollars in assets readily
available for use in the conduct of the business of each licensed office and
branch office.
G.An
adjustable loan lender license is not transferable or assignable, and a person
may not acquire control of a licensee through stock purchase or other device
without the prior written consent of the superintendent.The
superintendent may refuse consent if the superintendent finds that any of the
grounds for denial of renewal, revocation or suspension of a license prescribed
in section 6-1805 are applicable to the acquiring person. For the purposes of
this subsection, "control" means the power to vote more than twenty
percent of the outstanding voting shares of a licensed corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, association or trust. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1804.Issuance of license; license year; requirements
A.If the
superintendent finds no grounds for denial of a license, within one hundred
twenty days after receiving a complete application, the superintendent shall
grant the application and issue a license to the applicant.
B.The
license year for a licensee begins on July 1 and ends on June 30 of each year.
An adjustable loan lender shall apply for renewal as prescribed by the
superintendent not later than June 30 of each year. A license for which a
renewal application is not received by the superintendent by June 30 is
suspended and the adjustable loan lender may not act as an adjustable loan
lender until the license is renewed or a new license is issued pursuant to this
article. The license of an adjustable loan lender that has not filed a renewal
application and paid the renewal fee by July 31 expires.
C.All
licenses issued remain in full force until surrendered, revoked or suspended.
D.A license
remains the property of this state. On termination at the request of the
licensee or revocation by the superintendent, the licensee shall immediately
deliver the license to the superintendent. Termination of the license does not
affect any other liability of the licensee.
E.The
licensee shall designate the principal location of the licensed office within
or outside this state. If a licensee wishes to maintain more than one office
location, the licensee shall first obtain a branch office license from the
superintendent for each branch office.The licensee shall submit an
application in the form prescribed by the superintendent and pay the fee
prescribed in section 6-126 for each branch office license.If the
superintendent determines that the applicant is qualified, the superintendent
shall issue a branch office license indicating the address of the branch
office.
F.A
licensee shall prominently display the adjustable loan lender license in the
office of the adjustable loan lender and any branch office license in that
branch office. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1805.Denial of renewal; suspension; revocation
A.The
superintendent may deny renewal of a license or suspend or revoke a license if
the superintendent finds that a licensee:
1.Is
insolvent as defined in section 47-1201.
2.Has shown
that the licensee is not a person of honesty, truthfulness and good character.
3.Has
failed to pay the annual renewal fees.
4.Has
failed to file an annual report when due or within any extension of time
granted by the superintendent for good cause.
5.Has
failed to have or maintain at least twenty-five thousand dollars in assets used
or readily available for use in the conduct of the business of each licensed
office and branch office.
6.Either
knowingly or without the exercise of due care to prevent a violation, has
violated any provision of this title or any rule or order adopted or made
pursuant to this title.
7.Has failed
to operate the business of making adjustable loans for a continuous period of
twelve months or more, except that the superintendent, on good cause shown, may
extend the time for operating that business for a single fixed period of not
more than twelve months.
B.The
superintendent may also deny renewal of a license or suspend or revoke a
license if the superintendent finds that any fact or condition exists that, if
it had existed at the time of the original application for the license, would
have clearly warranted the superintendent to refuse to issue the license. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1806.Business limited to licensed locations; restrictions
A.Except as
provided in subsection B of this section, a licensee may not conduct the
business of making adjustable loans pursuant to this chapter under any name or
at any place of business other than the name and place stated in the licensee's
adjustable loan lender license or branch office license.
B.A
licensee may:
1.Make
adjustable loans by mail or electronic means.
2.On
request, make accommodations to consumers at any location requested by the
consumer.
3.Conduct
any administrative, loan servicing or recordkeeping activity at any other
location not open to the public, if the superintendent is notified in advance
of that activity.
C.On
approval by the superintendent, the licensee may conduct any of the activities
listed in subsection B of this section outside of this state.
D.A
licensee may change the location of its licensed office or licensed branch
office by giving written notice to the superintendent, who shall amend the
license accordingly.
E.All
adjustable loans that are made at the location of a licensed office or branch
office are subject to the requirements of article 2 of this chapter, whether
made by a licensee, any person otherwise exempt from this chapter pursuant to
section 6-1802 or any other person.
F.A
licensee may not conduct the business of making adjustable loans pursuant to
this chapter from within any licensed office or branch office in which any
other business not licensed pursuant to this title is solicited or engaged in,
or in association or conjunction with any other business not licensed pursuant
to this title, without giving prior notice to the superintendent. If it
appears to the superintendent that the other business is of such a nature or is
being conducted in such a manner as to conceal an evasion of this chapter or is
contrary to the public interest or otherwise being conducted in an unlawful
manner, the superintendent may act pursuant to section 6-137 to restrict the
licensee from conducting its business in conjunction with that other business.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public interest" means the laws
of this state or of the United States or rules adopted by the superintendent. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1807.Books; accounts; records; access
A.A
licensee shall maintain books, accounts and records that enable the
superintendent to determine whether the licensee is in compliance with this
chapter.
B.A
licensee shall preserve its books, accounts and records of adjustable loans for
at least two years after making the final entry for any Adjustable loan. A
licensee that uses an electronic recordkeeping system is not required to keep a
written copy of the accounts and records if the licensee is able to generate
all of the information required by this section in a timely manner for
examination or other purposes.
C.Every
licensee shall observe generally accepted accounting principles and practices.
D.A
licensee shall make any books, accounts and records that are kept outside of
this state available to the superintendent in this state not more than three
business days after demand is made by the superintendent or the superintendent
may choose to perform the examination or investigation at the office of the
licensee located outside this state.
E.For the
purposes of this chapter, the superintendent or the superintendent's duly
authorized representatives shall have access during normal business hours to
the offices and places of business, files, safes and vaults of all licensees
regarding that business or the subject matter of any examination, investigation
or hearing. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1808.Annual report of licensee; civil penalty for failure to file
A.On or
before October 1 of each year, the licensee shall file a report under oath and
in the form prescribed by the superintendent concerning the business and
operations during the twelve-month period ending the preceding June 30. On
good cause shown by a licensee, the superintendent may extend the time for
filing the report for a period of not more than sixty days.
B.If a
licensee fails to file the annual report, the superintendent or any person
designated by the superintendent may examine the books, accounts and records of
the licensee, prepare the annual report and charge the licensee an examination
fee as prescribed in section 6-125.
C.If a
licensee fails to file the annual report within the specified time, the
superintendent may assess a civil penalty for the failure to file the annual
report unless an extension of time is granted by the superintendent in writing
before the due date of the annual report. The superintendent may not assess a
penalty of more than five dollars per day. The licensee shall pay the penalty
to the superintendent within thirty days after the assessment. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1809.Reporting rates; change in rates; report of superintendent
A.At the
time of making its annual report to the superintendent, each licensee shall
report the licensee's standard annual percentage rate or range of annual
percentage rates in effect at that time on the following types of loans:
1.A five
hundred dollar unsecured adjustable loan, amortized showing the minimum
payments allowed by statute.
2.A one
thousand five hundred dollar adjustable loan, amortized showing the minimum
payments allowed by statute.
3.A three
thousand dollar adjustable loan, amortized showing the minimum payments allowed
by statute.
B.The
amount of each of the Adjustable loans described in subsection A of this
section refers to the amount financed as computed pursuant to the truth in
lending act (P.L. 90-321, 82 Stat. 146, 15 United States Code sections 1601
through 1667f). 
C.On at
least an annual basis the superintendent shall compile a report of the standard
annual percentage rate or range of annual percentage rates of each licensee for
the types of loans described in subsection A of this section. The
superintendent shall disseminate this report in a manner deemed appropriate by
the superintendent, and the superintendent shall make the report available to
the public for inspection and copying. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1810.Effect of revocation; suspension or surrender on
preexisting contract; impairment of contracts
A.The
revocation, suspension or surrender of an adjustable loan lender license does
not impair or affect:
1.The
obligation of any preexisting adjustable loan between the adjustable loan
lender and any consumer.
2.The
ability or right of the adjustable loan lender to service existing adjustable
loans from outside this state.
B.If this
chapter or any part of this chapter is modified, amended or repealed, resulting
in a cancellation or alteration of any adjustable loan lender license or right
of a licensee under this chapter, that cancellation or alteration does not
impair or affect the obligation of any preexisting contract between an
adjustable loan lender and any consumer. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1811.Prohibited acts
A.A
licensee may not knowingly advertise, display, distribute, broadcast or
televise, or cause or allow to be advertised, displayed, distributed, broadcast
or televised, in any manner, any false, misleading or deceptive statement or
representation with regard to the rates, terms or conditions for an adjustable
loan. To the extent applicable, all advertising shall comply with the
advertising requirements of the truth in lending act (P.L.90-321, 82
Stat. 146, 15 United States Code sections 1601 through 1667f).
B.A licensee
may not pay a fee, commission or bonus or give anything of value to any
merchant, dealer, consumer or other person for referring adjustable loan
business, except that a licensee may give a consumer a prize, good, ware,
merchandise or tangible property of an aggregate value of twentyfive
dollars or less.
C.A
consumer may not have outstanding more than one adjustable loan plan under this
chapter at any one time. Each licensee shall inquire of any consumer seeking
an adjustable loan plan under this chapter regarding the consumer's outstanding
adjustable loans.If the consumer represents in writing that the
consumer has no outstanding adjustable loan plans, a licensee may offer the
consumer an adjustable loan plan. If the consumer represents in writing that
the consumer has one or more outstanding adjustable loan plans, a licensee may
not offer an adjustable loan plan to the consumer until the consumer represents
to the licensee in writing that the consumer qualifies to open a new adjustable
loan plan pursuant to this subsection.
D.A
licensee may not make an adjustable loan having an annual percentage rate
greater than that set forth in federal law in 10 United States Code section 987
(b) to a person who is
either:
1.A member
of the United States armed forces who is on active duty under a call or order
that does not specify a period of thirty days or less.
2.On active
national guard and reserve duty.
3.A
dependent as defined in the John Warner national defense authorization act for
fiscal year 2007 (P.L. 109-364; 120 Stat. 2083; 10 United States Code section
987) or any regulation adopted pursuant to that act, including 32 Code of
Federal Regulations part 232, of a person listed in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
subsection.
E.A
licensee may not make an adjustable loan to a person unless that person has
either:
1.Signed
and provided to the licensee as part of the loan a statement attesting to
whether or not the person is a military member or dependent as defined as a
covered member in the John Warner national defense authorization act for fiscal
year 2007 (P.L. 109-364; 120 Stat. 2083). Such statement shall be in the form
as may be set by the superintendent by rule or may conform with that provided
by federal law or regulation regarding covered members by the United States
department of defense.
2.Used
another authorized method to determine the person is not a covered member as
may be set out in federal law or by United States department of defense
regulations.
F.Any loan
made in violation of the John Warner national defense authorization act for
fiscal year 2007 (P.L. 109-364; 120 Stat. 2083) is void. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1812.Rules
The superintendent
shall adopt rules that are necessary to regulate the proper conduct of
licensees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1813.Restriction; voidable loans
A.Except as
the result of an accidental or bona fide error, if the licensee charges,
contracts for or receives any amount in excess of the finance charges and other
fees allowed by this chapter, that licensee fails to promptly refund the
overcharges on discovery and the line of credit provided to a consumer on an
adjustable loan is greater than three thousand dollars, that adjustable loan is
voidable and the licensee has no right to collect or receive any principal,
finance charges or other fees in connection with that adjustable loan.
B.Any
adjustable loan that is made by a person that is required to be licensed
pursuant to this chapter but that is not licensed is void and the person making
that adjustable loan has no right to collect, receive or retain any principal,
finance charges or other fees in connection with that adjustable loan. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1814.Noncompliance
Except as provided in section 6-1813, a failure to comply
with this chapter does not affect the validity or enforceability of any
adjustable loan.
END_STATUTE
ARTICLE 2.REQUIREMENTS FOR ADJUSTABLE LOANS
START_STATUTE6-1831.Disclosures; civil penalty
A.To the
extent applicable, a licensee shall comply with the disclosure requirements of
the truth in lending act (P.L. 90-321, 82 Stat. 146, 15 United States Code
sections 1601 through 1667f). 
B.Each note
or agreement evidencing an adjustable loan shall contain the following
disclosure statement in at least ten-point type that is in English and in
Spanish and in close proximity to the consumer's signature line or,
alternatively a licensee may provide the borrower with the disclosures required
by this section in a mobile or other electronic application on which the size
of the typeface of the disclosure can be manually modified by a prospective
borrower, if the prospective borrower is given the option to print the
disclosure in a typeface of at least twelvepoint size or is provided by
the licensee with a hard copy of the disclosure in a typeface of at least
twelve-point size before the loan is consummated:
Notice: you may
request that the initial disclosures prescribed in the truth in lending act (15
United States Code sections 1601 through 1667f) be provided in Spanish before signing any loan documents.
C.A
licensee shall continuously and conspicuously display a sign printed in at
least twelve-point bold type containing the notice prescribed by subsection B
of this section and the following notice at each desk in each licensed office
or branch office at which adjustable loans are usually and normally closed:
Notice:Before
signing any loan documents or otherwise committing to a loan, you may take
copies of those documents away from the adjustable LOAN lender's place of
business for review.
D.If a
licensee is providing electronic loans, the licensee must conspicuously display
the following disclosure on its website:
Notice:Before
signing any loan documents or otherwise committing to a loan, please read our
terms and conditions carefully.
E.A
licensee shall give to the consumer a receipt or another written record of the
amount of any payment made in currency on any adjustable loan, either at the
time the payment is made or within ten days after the payment is made, or the
licensee may reflect the payment on the periodic statement sent to the consumer
for the billing period that includes the date of that payment.
F.A
licensee shall provide customers with a periodic billing statement in
compliance with the truth in lending act (P.L. 90321, 82 Stat. 146, 15
United States code sections 1601 through 1667f).
G.If the
licensee fails to make the disclosure statement prescribed in subsection B of
this section, the superintendent shall assess the licensee a one-time civil
penalty of up to three hundred dollars for every violation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1832.Amount of loan; finance charges
A licensee may offer aN
adjustable loan of not more than three thousand dollars.A licensee
may contract for and receive finance charges on adjustable loans at a rate of
not more than thirty-six percent per annum. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1833.Computation of finance charges
A.A
licensee shall compute periodic finance charges on adjustable loans on the
unpaid principal balance of the adjustable loan by either of the following
methods:
1.By
multiplying the daily periodic rate by the actual unpaid balance of the
adjustable loan each day during the billing cycle period.The daily
periodic rate shall be determined by dividing the annual percentage rate by
three hundred sixty-five.
2.By
multiplying the monthly periodic rate by the average daily balance of the
adjustable loan during the billing cycle. The average daily balance is the sum
of the unpaid balances of the adjustable loan each day during the billing cycle
period divided by the number of days in the billing cycle
period.The monthly periodic rate is determined by dividing the
annual percentage rate by twelve. The unpaid balance on any day is determined
by adding to any balance unpaid as of the beginning of that day all advances
and allowed additional fees and deducting all payments and other credits to the
adjustable loan that day.
B.A
licensee may compute finance charges only on the unpaid principal balance. A
licensee may not compound finance charges. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1834.Repayment of adjustable loan
An adjustable loan
shall require minimum payments on or before the due date of each billing cycle,
installments of principal, finance charges and fees combined with a minimum
monthly payment that reduces the principal outstanding loan balance each month
by not less than five percent. The first billing cycle of an adjustable loan
is due not less than fifteen days but not more than forty-five days after the
adjustable loan is made. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1835.Other allowable fees; annual reporting
A.In
addition to the finance charges authorized by section 6-1832, a licensee may
contract for and receive and collect finance charges on the following fees:
1.A
delinquency charge in an amount equal to five percent of the amount of any
installment not paid in full within seven days after its due date.
2.A
customary fee to defray the ordinary costs of opening, administrating and
terminating an adjustable loan plan, including costs associated with:
(a)Underwriting and documenting the account.
(b)Securing and maintaining the account information. 
(c)Validating consumer information.
(d)Offering electronic and telephone access to accounts.
(e)Processing account transactions.
(f)Responding to consumer inquiries.
(g)Providing periodic billing statements.
(h)All other services or activities conducted by the licensee
under the adjustable loan plan.
3.Court
costs.
4.Reasonable
attorney fees if the adjustable loan is referred for collection to an attorney
other than a salaried employee of the licensee.
b.The
customary fee described in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is not
interest and may not exceed a monthly rate of one percent of the actual unpaid
monthly principal balance in any billing cycle. The customary fee is a finance
charge under the federal truth in lending act and must be included in the
calculation of any annual percentage rate.
C.If a
licensee receives a check, draft, negotiable order of withdrawal or similar
instrument drawn on a depository institution that is offered by a consumer in
full or partial payment on an adjustable loan and the instrument is not paid or
is dishonored by the depository institution, the licensee may charge and
collect from the consumer a dishonored check service fee equal to the actual
charges assessed by the financial institution of the holder or payee or the
assignee of the holder or payee as a result of the dishonored instrument.
D.In
addition to the finance charges and fees provided in this article, the licensee
may not directly or indirectly charge, contract for or receive any further or
other amount in connection with an adjustable loan.
E.In
conjunction with the reporting requirements prescribed in section 6-1809, on or
before October 1 each year, a licensee shall report to the superintendent the
number of adjustable loans under one thousand dollars made in the prior two
years. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE6-1836.Loans from theft or fraud; consumer not responsible; correction
of credit information
A licensee may not hold
a person responsible for any loan amount that is incurred as a result of a
violation of section 13-2008, 13-2009, 13-2010 or 13-2310. Within thirty days
after a licensee is aware that a loan is a result of a violation of section
13-2008, 13-2009, 13-2010 or 13-2310, the licensee shall immediately correct
any derogatory credit information that is reported to a consumer reporting
agency as defined in section 44-1691 and that is the result of the violation. END_STATUTE

