







REFERENCE TITLE: mining and mineral museum; transfer







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1440









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

Amending sections
27106 and 27107, Arizona Revised Statutes; providing for
transferring and renumbering; amending section 27111, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered; amending sections 282448, 322117,
33423 and 41821, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 41827,
Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to mining, mineral and
natural resources.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 27-106, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE27-106.Duties of Arizona geological survey; mining, mineral and
natural resources educational museum
A.The
Arizona geological survey shall:
1.Map and describe the bedrock and related geologic
materials and processes in Arizona, as follows:
(a)Prepare geologic maps that show the distribution
of rock formations and surficial materials at the surface and in the
subsurface.
(b)Describe the character of rock and surficial
materials, including their age, origin and physical and chemical properties.
(c)Map, describe and monitor known and potential
geologic hazards and limitations to land and resource management.
(d)Map and characterize energy and mineral
resources and identify areas that may have potential for future discoveries.
2.Provide objective, scientific information about
the geologic character of this state as follows:
(a)Provide timely, courteous responses to requests for
information, advice and assistance from the public.
(b)Maintain a computerized bibliographic database
of maps and reports on the geology of this state that is accessible to the
public.
(c)Maintain an internet web site website that includes information about the Arizona
geological survey, products and services available and the geologic character
of this state.
(d)Give lectures and talks, conduct workshops, lead
field trips and provide information and assistance to public, educational and
professional groups.
(e)Publish reports and other information, written
in nontechnical terms, to inform those who
are not trained in geology about the geologic character of
Arizona.
3.Prepare all data files of known areas of earth
fissures, produce maps of those areas with overlays showing affected counties,
cities, towns, highways and streets and transmit the maps in printed and
electronic format to the state real estate department for purposes of providing
public access to the earth fissure maps pursuant to this paragraph and section
322117. The Arizona geological survey shall provide any map to any
member of the public in printed or electronic format on request.The
following notice shall be displayed below each map:
Notice
The state of Arizona has made a reasonable effort to ensure
the accuracy of this map when it was produced, but errors may be present and
the state of Arizona does not guarantee its accuracy.The map
supplements, and is not a substitute for, a professional inspection of property
for defects and conditions.
4.Operate and maintain a central repository and a
computerized database for reports, books, maps and other publications regarding
the geology, mining and mineral resources and associated
technologies.Such repository and database shall be available for
the use of the public and may be located at or connected with the university of
Arizona or another state university or agency of this state.All
databases and other archival materials shall be maintained in a secure and
retrievable format and at a location prescribed by the state geologist to
protect and preserve information from damage or destruction.
5.Operate and maintain a central repository for
rock cores, well cuttings and samples and all associated supplemental data
consistent with the laws of this state requiring the deposit of such material
and information. Such the repository shall be
available for the use of the public.
6.Receive and expend any monies arising from
grants, contracts, contributions, gratuities or reimbursements payable or
distributable to this state from the United States, or from state, county,
municipal or other governmental sources. The Arizona geological survey shall
also receive and expend any monies arising from grants, contracts,
contributions, gratuities or reimbursements donated by private persons or
corporations.Monies received pursuant to this paragraph shall be
deposited in the geological survey fund and handled pursuant to section 27107.
7.Contract and be contracted with.
8.Utilize the services and expertise of the
universities of the this state at the discretion of
the state geologist.
9.Cooperate with local, county, state and federal
agencies.
10.Provide administrative and staff support for the
Arizona oil and gas
conservation commission.
11.Provide quality mining data, evaluation and
assistance relating to mining and mineral development to the legislature,
federal, state and local governmental agencies and the public.
12.Serve as a source of mining information and data
necessary or advisable to attain its objectives.The state geologist
may establish reasonable fees for publications.
13.Cooperate with the Arizona corporation
commission in its investigations and administration of laws, relating to the sale of mining
securities. 
B.In
coordination with the mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum
advisory council established by section 27111, the Arizona geological
survey shall operate and maintain a mining, mineral and natural resources
educational museum as the state depository for collecting, cataloging and
displaying mining, mineral and natural resources artifacts and
specimens.In connection with the mining, mineral and natural
resources educational museum, the state geologist may:
1.Promote
the recognition and celebration of the historical, cultural, economic and
social contributions to this state made by the mining, mineral and natural
resources industries in this state, including the livestock and agricultural
industries.
2.Apply for
and accept grants, gifts, bequests of legacies of real or personal property,
donations, including donations of time, services and materials, or any other
contribution, financial or otherwise, for use in accordance with the direction
of the donor or, in the absence of an express direction, as prescribed by the
Arizona geological survey. Monies received pursuant to this paragraph shall be
deposited in a separate mining, mineral and natural resources educational
museum account in the geological survey fund established by section 27-107 to
be used exclusively for the maintenance, restoration and operations of the
mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum.
3.Accept
from the federal or state government, any local government or any of their
agencies restricted and unrestricted monies made available to this state for
the mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum.
4.Establish
and collect entrance fees to the mining, mineral and natural resources
educational museum.
5.Operate a
retail gift shop, including the acquisition, purchase and resale of mining,
mineral and natural resources specimens and related items.
6.Employ a
curator for the mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum who
possesses knowledge or experience in natural resources and operating a museum.
7.Operate
educational programming for the mining, mineral and natural resources
educational museum.
8.Accept
the services of volunteers and provide oversight for their activities.
9.Pay the
necessary maintenance and operation expenses of the mining, mineral and natural
resources educational museum.
C.The
Arizona geological survey:
1.With the
approval of the mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum
advisory council, shall adopt a collections management policy that is
consistent with national standards and best practices for museums in the united
states established by a national association of museums.
2.Shall
maintain the items, artifacts and other inventory received for display or
storage, including equipment and outdoor displays.
3.In
coordination with the mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum
advisory council and pursuant to the standards and best practices adopted
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, may sell or otherwise dispose of
materials received for the mining, mineral and natural resources educational
museum.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 27-107, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE27-107.Powers and duties of state geologist; fund
A.The state geologist shall:
1.Establish such
administrative functions and offices as necessary to achieve the purposes of
this article.
2.Prescribe the number and professional disciplines
of the technical staff and their office and laboratory associates.
3.Direct the work of the Arizona geological survey
and the formulation of its program and policies.
4.Adopt such
rules as are necessary to
carry out the purposes of this article.
5.Purchase or lease necessary office and laboratory
equipment and acquire facilities from the state or lease necessary office and
laboratory space.
6.Apply for and accept gifts, bequests or legacies
of real or personal property or any other contribution, financial or otherwise,
for use pursuant to the direction of the donor or, in the absence of an express
direction, to be disposed of for the best interests of this state. The state
geologist shall honor any restriction imposed by the donor on divulging
contributed information or tangible personal property.
7.Accept from the federal, state and local
governments or their agencies monies made available to this state for the
purposes of this article.
8.Enter into cooperative agreements with federal,
county or municipal governments or their agencies or with any agency or
governmental unit established by the law of this or any other state for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this article.
9.Contract with persons and organizations, public
or private, to provide services for the Arizona geological survey.
10.Appoint a person with a background in oil and
gas conservation to act on behalf of the oil and gas conservation commission
and administer and enforce the applicable provisions of chapter 4 of this title
relating to the oil and gas conservation commission.
B.The state geologist or the geologist's designee,
at any time, may enter the property and inspect wells drilled for oil, gas,
geothermal resources, helium or carbon dioxide and shall control property,
machinery and appliances necessary to gauge the wells.
C.A geological survey fund is established for the
purposes provided in this article consisting of appropriations and all monies
received pursuant to this article and section 27515. Monies shall be
separately accounted for and used as a continuing appropriation by the state
geologist for the purposes provided from each source. Monies in the fund are
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations. The fund includes a
separate mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum account
consisting of monies received pursuant to section 27106, subsection B to
be used exclusively for the maintenance and operations of the mining, mineral
and natural resources educational museum.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-827.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 27, chapter 1,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 27-111 and, as so renumbered,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE27-111.Mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum
advisory council; membership; duties; terms; compensation
A.The centennial
and mining,
and mineral and natural resources educational museum
advisory council is established consisting of the following members who, except
for the members designated pursuant to paragraphs 1, 9 and 2
10 of this subsection,
are appointed by the governor:
1.The
executive director of the Arizona historical society or the director's
designee.
2.1.The state
geologist or the state geologist's designee.
3.2.Two members One member representing the livestock
industry.
4.3.Two
members representing the mining industry.
5.4.Two members One member representing the agriculture
industry.
6.5.Two members One member representing the tourism and other climate-related industries industry.
7.6.Two members One member representing the specialty crops timber industry.
8.7.One
member who is a natural resources
education professional knowledgeable
in gems and minerals.
9.One member
representing a natural resources foundation.
10.8.Two members
representing the public.
9.one
member of the house of representatives who is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives.
10.one
member of the senate who is appointed by the president of the senate.
B.The advisory council shall:
1.Select a chairperson and vice-chairperson from
among its members.
2.Hold regular meetings and additional meetings at
the call of the chairperson or a majority of its members.
3.Provide oversight and advice to the director of the Arizona historical society
state geologist regarding
the centennial museum that houses the
mining, and mineral and natural resources educational museum and
assist in promoting the mission of the centennial
museum.The director
state geologist shall
accept the recommendations of the advisory council if the director state geologist finds them to be practicable and in the
best interest of the mining, mineral
and natural resources educational museum.
4.Establish a subcommittee to provide assistance
and advice in the areas of educational programming, the hiring and retention of
a curator and oversight of mineral collections.The advisory council
may establish subcommittees to act in an advisory capacity on other matters
relevant to the mining, mineral and
natural resources educational museum and the advisory council's
duties.
C.The initial members appointed pursuant to
subsection A, paragraphs 3 through 10
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this section shall
assign themselves by lot to three, four and five year terms of
office.All subsequent members serve five year fouryear terms of office.A
member may continue to serve until the member's successor is appointed and
assumes office.
D.Members of the advisory council are not eligible
to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant
to title 38, chapter 4, article 2. The advisory council is a public body for
purposes of title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 28-2448, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2448.Arizona centennial special plates; fund
A.The department shall issue Arizona centennial
special plates. The department shall use thirtytwo thousand dollars
from the state highway fund, established by section 286991, to implement
this section.The office of tourism shall design the Arizona
centennial special plates. The design and color of the Arizona centennial
special plates are subject to the approval of the department.The
director of the department of transportation may allow a request for Arizona centennial
special plates to be combined with a request for personalized special
plates.If the director of the department of transportation allows
such a combination, the request shall be in a form prescribed by the director
of the department of transportation and is subject to the fees for the
personalized special plates in addition to the fees required for the Arizona
centennial special plates.
B.Of the twenty-five dollar fee required by section
282402 for the original special plates and for renewal of special plates,
eight dollars is a special plate administration fee and seventeen dollars is an
annual donation.
C.The department shall deposit, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, all special plate administration fees
in the state highway fund established by section 286991 and all
donations collected pursuant to this section in the Arizona centennial special
plate fund established by this section.
D.The Arizona centennial special plate fund is
established consisting of monies deposited pursuant to this section. The
director shall administer the fund.The first thirty-two thousand
dollars in the fund shall be reimbursed to the state highway fund established
by section 286991. Not more than ten per cent percent of monies deposited in the fund annually shall be
used for the cost of administering the fund. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated.
E.In fiscal
year 20112012, the director shall quarterly allocate monies in the fund
to the office of tourism to pay costs related to Arizona centennial projects
and events. In fiscal year 20122013 and in each fiscal year thereafter,
The director shall annually allocate monies in the fund to the Arizona historical society geological survey to pay costs
related to the maintenance and operations of the centennial museum that houses the mining, and mineral and natural resources educational museum.
F.On notice from the director, the state treasurer
shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-2117, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2117.Earth fissure maps; posting; immunity
A.On receipt of maps from the Arizona geological
survey, the state real estate department shall provide any earth fissure map to
any member of the public in printed or electronic format on request and provide
access on its website to the earth fissure maps prepared by the Arizona
geological survey pursuant to section 27106, subsection A, paragraph3. The
following notice shall be displayed below each map:
Notice
The state of Arizona has made a reasonable effort to ensure
the accuracy of this map when it was produced, but errors may be present and
the state of Arizona does not guarantee its accuracy. The map supplements, and
is not a substitute for, a professional inspection of property for defects and
conditions.
B.Nothing in
This section shall be construed as
denying does not deny a
person rights guaranteed by the Arizona Constitution, and notwithstanding any
other law, a subdivider, owner or licensee is not liable to any person or
governmental entity for any act or failure to act in connection with:
1.The disclosure of real estate subject to earth
fissures if the subdivider, owner or licensee provides a written disclosure or
includes notice in a public report, issued pursuant to section 322183 or
322195.03, with respect to real estate subject to earth fissures, of the
map and website described in subsection A of this section.The
written disclosure or notice in a public report, issued pursuant to section 322183
or 322195.03, of the map and website does not create an independent
cause of action.
2.Any disclosure that occurred before the date the
map described in subsection A of this section is posted on the website if the
subdivider, owner or licensee had no actual knowledge that the land was subject
to earth fissures before the map was posted. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
33-423, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-423.Disclosure; reports; indemnity; applicability; violation;
classification
A.A disclosure report pursuant to this section may
be provided to the buyer or seller of real property by a third party as
authorized by the buyer or seller and shall be based on officially adopted and
electronically posted or otherwise readily available governmental maps or
information that discloses whether the real property is subject to one or more
of the following:
1.Special flood hazard areas designated by the
federal emergency management agency pursuant to 42 United States Code chapter
50.
2.Military airports and ancillary military
facilities as defined in section 288461 or as disclosed pursuant to
section 288484 or 322113.
3.Military training routes as shown in the map
produced pursuant to section 37102 and military restricted airspace as
shown in the map produced pursuant to section 37102.
4.Public and private airports that are approved by
the federal aviation administration.
5.Expansive soils as shown on maps issued by the
natural resource conservation service or on other officially adopted and
readily available governmental maps.
6.Fissures as shown on earth fissure maps issued by
the Arizona geological survey pursuant to section 27106, subsection A, paragraph 3.
7.Special tax assessment areas or taxing authority
and amount of special assessments in addition to ad valorem taxes as shown in
the current tax records of the applicable county assessor.
8.Radon gas potential zones as shown on current
maps issued by the United States environmental protection agency.
9.Environmental hazard superfund sites including
the sites listed in the Arizona superfund program list and the water quality
assurance revolving fund registry, or listed by the United States environmental
protection agency including the national priorities list, the comprehensive
environmental response compensation and liability information system database
or on maps issued by the department of environmental quality or equivalent
databases of those sites.
10.Any other condition that affects the real
property that the buyer or seller authorizes and the third party thirdparty provider agrees to provide
in a third party provider disclosure report.
B.For any third
party thirdparty provider
of information as prescribed by this section, the following apply: 
1.A seller or buyer shall not be required to
provide the written disclosure provided by this section to an insurance
company, a lender or a governmental agency.
2.The third
party thirdparty provider
shall carry errors and omissions insurance coverage with limits of at least one
million dollars per occurrence and in an aggregate of at least ten million
dollars. A person who violates this paragraph is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor.
C.If an action is brought as a result of an error,
inaccuracy or omission in the disclosure made only by a third party thirdparty provider who provides
information pursuant to subsection A of this section, the third party thirdparty provider shall provide a
defense against the action, shall indemnify the buyer or seller who authorized
the disclosure report and persons licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 20 who
represent the buyer or seller for any judgment rendered and shall reimburse
reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in defending the action, unless the
buyer, seller or agent for the buyer or seller had knowledge of the error,
inaccuracy or omission or the buyer, seller or agent for the buyer or seller
modified the disclosure and the modification resulted in the error, inaccuracy
or omission. Nothing inThis section shall be construed to does not prohibit a third party thirdparty provider of information from
agreeing by contract that the third party
thirdparty provider
shall indemnify a person to a greater extent than is required by this section.
D.If information that is disclosed pursuant to this
section is subsequently rendered inaccurate as a result of any governmental
action, map revision, changed information or other act or occurrence after the
delivery of the disclosure, no person is liable for the information that was
disclosed unless the person had knowledge of the error, inaccuracy or omission.
E.This section shall not be construed to create a
cause of action for the use of maps or other information pursuant to this
section. This section does not apply to the sale of real property by any
person pursuant to section 322183 or section 322195.03, or any
affiliate of that person.
F.This section does not obligate any person to
provide or purchase a disclosure report that is the subject of this section.
G.The listing of a condition in subsection A of
this section or in a third party
thirdparty provider
disclosure report does not by itself make that condition material or immaterial
to a particular real estate transaction.The materiality of any
disclosure is governed as otherwise provided by law. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 41-821, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-821.Arizona historical society; powers;
officers; duties of board of directors
A.An
the Arizona historical
society is established.
B.Subject to limitations imposed by law, the
society may purchase, receive, hold, lease and sell property, real and personal,
for the benefit of this state and use of the society. The society may solicit
private monetary donations for program activities.
C.The society shall have a president, a treasurer
and other officers who are elected by the members of the society at times and
by methods the bylaws of the society prescribe.Each member of the
board of directors shall have knowledge, competence, experience and interest in
the fields related to the preservation and promotion of Arizona history and be
a member of the society or become a member of the society before senate
confirmation. The governor shall appoint the members pursuant to section 38211
for a term of four years. The board of directors may designate from among its
members an executive committee with authority to act in place of the board of
directors and in accordance with directions the board of directors may give
when the board of directors is not in session.
D.The board of directors is established consisting
of the following members who are appointed pursuant to subsection C of this
section:
1.One member from each county.
2.One member who is recommended by each of the
designated historical organizations as prescribed by subsection I of this
section.
3.Five members of the public.
E.The president shall preside at meetings of the
society and of the board of directors. Each member of the board of directors
is entitled to only one vote. The board of directors may conduct meetings
telephonically.
F.The treasurer shall have custody of the monies of
the society, other than legislative appropriations.The treasurer
shall hold the monies of the society deposited in trust for the society's use
and for the benefit of this state and shall disburse them only as prescribed by
law and the bylaws of the society.
G.The board of directors shall hold in trust for
this state and administer for the benefit of this state and use of the society
all property acquired by the society.
H.All expenditures of legislative appropriations to
the society shall be made on claims that are duly itemized, verified and approved by the
executive director of the society.
The executive director of the society
shall present and file claims for payment with the director of the department
of administration. The director of the department of administration shall draw
the warrant on the state treasurer. The society may expend nonappropriated
private funds related to program activities.
I.The board of directors shall annually designate
one or more historical organizations within each county of this state that are
incorporated as nonprofit organizations and that are deemed to have a
functioning program of historical value based on criteria established by the
board of directors. The board of directors may organize chapters made up of groups
of its members who have a common interest in a geographical area of this state
or a common interest in a field of history, may provide for the governance of
these chapters and may grant to any chapter the power to exercise authority of
the society as the board of directors may determine.
J.The board of directors, subject to legislative
appropriation, may contract with certified historical organizations for
services to be performed for the benefit of this state.The
contracts shall be prepared by the Arizona historical society.The
board of directors shall annually review the contracts to ensure fulfillment of
their provisions.
K.Subject to chapter 4, article 4 of this title,
the board of directors may employ an executive director and may employ or authorize
the employment of other employees it considers appropriate to carry out the
functions of the society.The executive director and all other
employees shall have duties and exercise authority as may be prescribed by the
board of directors or by the executive director acting under the direction of
the board of directors.
L.The board may operate a program for the
establishment and maintenance of historical markers at various locations in
this state.
M.In cooperation with
the advisory council established by section 41827.01, the board shall
operate and maintain the centennial museum that houses the mining and mineral
museum and may engage in other activities related to the museum as determined
by the board or the executive director. Monies received pursuant to this
subsection shall be credited to an account to be used for the maintenance and
operations of the centennial museum that houses the mining and mineral museum.
END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Repeal
Section 41-827,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.9.Transfer and succession
A.As provided by this act, the Arizona geological
survey succeeds to the authority, power,
duties and obligations of
the Arizona historical society with respect to the former mining and mineral
museum. 
B.This act does not alter the effect of any actions
that were taken or impair the valid obligations of the Arizona historical
society with respect to the former mining and mineral museum in existence
before the effective date of this act and now assumed by the Arizona geological
survey.
C.The Arizona historical society shall provide a
list of all mining and mineral museum inventory, including the location of the
inventory, and assist in the transfer of all mining and mineral museum
inventory to the Arizona geological survey.
Sec.10.Report on mining, mineral and natural resources
educational museum
The state geologist, in coordination with the mining, mineral
and natural resources educational museum advisory council, shall submit a
report to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the
house of representatives on or before December 31, 2018 and provide a copy of
this report to the secretary of state regarding the operations of the mining,
mineral and natural resources educational museum prescribed in section 27106,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, including whether general
fund monies are required for the continued maintenance and operations of the
mining, mineral and natural resources educational museum, information relating
to excess specimens and recommendations on other beneficial uses of the mining,
mineral and natural resources educational museum building.
Sec.11.Terms of members of mining, mineral and natural resources
educational museum advisory council
Notwithstanding section 27111, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by this act, a person who is serving as a member of the centennial
and mining and mineral museum advisory council on the effective date of this
act is eligible to continue to serve on the mining, mineral and natural
resources educational museum advisory council until expiration of the member's
current term of office. All subsequent appointed members shall serve a fouryear
term of office.
Sec.12.Transfer of monies
A.All unexpended and
unencumbered monies remaining in the Arizona centennial special plate fund
established by section 28-2448, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this
act, are transferred to the mining, mineral and natural resources educational
museum account in the geological survey fund established by section 27-107,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.
B.The sum of __________ and one FTE position are
transferred from the Arizona historical society in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the
geological survey fund established by section 27-107, Arizona Revised Statutes
as amended by this act, for use in operating the mining, mineral and natural
resources educational museum.
C.All unexpended and unencumbered monies received
by the Arizona historical society for the purposes of operating the former
mining and mineral museum, the gift shop located in the former mining and
mineral museum and any entrance fees collected for the former mining and mineral
museum are transferred to the mining, mineral and natural resources educational
museum account in the geological survey fund established by section 27107,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.

