







REFERENCE TITLE: filing fees; business entities







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1478









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

amending section
10-122, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 10, chapter 1, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 10-131; amending section 29-851,
Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to the corporation
commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 10-122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-122.Filing, service and copying fees; expedited report filing
and access; same day and next day services; posted wait times; advance monies;
definition
A.Except as
provided in subsection M of this section, the commission shall
collect and deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, the
following nonrefundable fees when the documents described in this subsection
are delivered to the commission:
Document Fee
1.Articles of incorporation $50
2.Application for use of indistinguishable name 
10
3.Application for reserved name 
10
4.Notice of transfer of reserved name 
10
5.Application for registered name 
10
6.Application for renewal of registered name 
10
7.Agent's statement of resignation 
10
8.Amendment of articles of incorporation 
25
9.Restatement of articles of incorporation with
amendment of articles  25
10.Statement of merger, interest exchange,
conversion, domestication or division if the
entity responsible for filing the statement
is a corporation 100
11.Articles of dissolution 
25
12.Articles of revocation of dissolution 
25
13.Application for reinstatement following
administrative dissolution, in addition
to other fees and penalties due 100
14.Application for authority 150
15.Application for withdrawal 
25
16.Annual report 
45
17.Articles of correction 
25
18.Application for certificate of good standing 
10
19.Any other document required or permitted
to be filed by chapters 1 through 17
of this title  25
B.The commission shall collect a nonrefundable fee
of twentyfive dollars each time process is served on it under chapters 1
through 17 of this title. The party to a proceeding causing service of process
is entitled to recover this fee as costs if the party prevails in the
proceeding.
C.The commission shall charge and collect a
reasonable fee for copying documents on request, provided the fee does not
exceed the cost of providing the service as determined by the commission. The
commission shall also charge a reasonable fee for certifying the copy of a
filed document, provided the fee does not exceed the cost of providing the
service as determined by the commission.
D.A penalty of one hundred dollars payable in
addition to other fees accrues and is payable if a foreign corporation fails to
file an amendment, restated articles that include an amendment, or articles of merger within sixty days
of the time of filing in the jurisdiction in which the corporation is
domiciled. The penalty collected pursuant to this subsection shall be
deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the state
general fund.
E.Onethird of the fees for the annual report
of domestic and foreign corporations paid pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
16 of this section shall be deposited in the Arizona arts trust fund
established by section 41983.01 and two-thirds of these fees shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the public access fund
established by section 10122.01.
F.The commission shall provide for and establish an
expedited service for the filing of all documents and services provided
pursuant to this title as follows:
1.The expedited filing shall be a priority service
to be completed as soon as possible after the documents are delivered to the
commission.
2.In addition to any other fees required by this
section or any other law, the commission shall charge a nonrefundable fee for
expedited services, including those requested by fax.The fee shall
be determined by a supermajority vote of the commissioners.
3.The commission may provide for and establish same
day and next day services for the filing of any documents and services provided
pursuant to this title as follows:
(a)The commission shall suspend same day or next
day service if the commission determines that it does not have the necessary
resources to perform the service within the established time period.
(b)In addition to any other fees required by this
section or any other law, the commissioners may charge a nonrefundable fee for
the same day or next day service or both. The fee shall be determined by a
supermajority vote of the commissioners.
4.The commission shall publicly post the current
wait times for processing regular, expedited and same day and next day
services.
G.The commission may charge persons who access the
commission's data processing system that is maintained pursuant to section 10122.01
from remote locations and persons requesting special computer generated
printouts, reports and tapes a reasonable fee that does not exceed the cost of
the time, equipment and personnel necessary to provide this service or product
as determined by the commission.
H.Except as provided in section 10122.01,
subsection B, paragraph 3, in addition to any fee charged pursuant to this
section, the commission may charge and collect the following nonrefundable fees
to help defray the cost of the improved data processing system that is
maintained pursuant to section 10122.01:
1.Filing articles of incorporation of a domestic
corporation, ten dollars.
2.Filing an application of a foreign corporation
for authority to transact business in this state, twentyfive dollars.
I.All monies received pursuant to subsections F, G
and H of this section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and
35147, in the public access fund established by section 10122.01.
J.Fees charged pursuant to this section are exempt
from section 39121.03, subsection A, paragraph 3.
K.Any person may advance monies to the commission
to pay fees required pursuant to this section for future filings and
services.All monies received pursuant to this subsection shall be
deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the money on
deposit account in the public access fund established by section 10122.01.
L.In addition to any other fees prescribed by law,
the commission may establish a fee for the filing of an annual benefit report
delivered to the commission pursuant to section 102442.The
fee shall be determined by a majority vote of the commissioners.
M.The fee
prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section applies only to foreign
corporations.
M.N.For
the purposes of this section, "supermajority" means an affirmative
vote of at least four commissioners. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 10, chapter 1, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 10-131, to read:
START_STATUTE10-131.Duties; annual reporting; filing fees
The commission shall
annually submit a report to the governor, the president of the senate and the
speaker of the house of representatives that contains both of the following:
1.An
analysis of the articles of incorporation fee prescribed by section 10-122 and
the initial articles of organization fee prescribed by section 29-851 and
whether each fee structure is contributing toward business formation in this
state.
2.The
fiscal impact to the commission of the fees described in paragraph 1 of this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 29-851, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE29-851.Filing, service and copying fees; expedited filing and
services; same day and next day services; posted wait times; advance monies;
definition
A.The commission shall collect and deposit,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, the following nonrefundable
fees when the following documents are delivered to the commission:
1.The initial articles of organization for a foreign limited liability company,
fifty dollars.
2.An application for registration of a foreign
limited liability company, one hundred fifty dollars.
3.An amendment to the articles of organization,
twentyfive dollars.
4.Articles of termination and a certificate of
termination, thirtyfive dollars.
5.A certificate for any purpose not otherwise
provided for, ten dollars.
6.Statement of merger, interest exchange,
conversion, domestication or division if the entity responsible for filing the
statement is a limited liability company, fifty dollars.
7.Written information on any limited liability
company, ten dollars.
8.A copy of any document or instrument, five
dollars plus fifty cents per page.
9.An application for reservation of a name or for
filing a notice of the transfer or cancellation of any name reservation, ten
dollars.
10.Five dollars for a statement of change of
address of one or more of the following:
(a)Known place of business.
(b)Statutory agent.
(c)Manager.
(d)Member.
11.Any service of notice, demand or process on the
commission as resident agent of a limited liability company, twentyfive
dollars.This amount may be recovered as taxable costs by the party
to the suit, action or proceeding causing the service to be made if the party
prevails in the suit, action or proceeding.
12.Articles of correction, the fee prescribed in
section 10122, subsection A, paragraph 17.
13.Application for reinstatement following
administrative dissolution, in addition to other fees and penalties due, the
fee prescribed in section 10122, subsection A, paragraph 13.
B.The commission shall provide for and establish an
expedited service for the filing of all documents and services provided
pursuant to this chapter as follows:
1.The expedited filing shall be a priority service
to be completed as soon as possible after the documents are delivered to the
commission.
2.In addition to any other fees required by this
section or any other law, the commission shall charge a nonrefundable fee for
expedited services, including those requested by fax.The fee shall
be determined by a supermajority vote of the commissioners.
C.The commission may provide for and establish same
day and next day services for the filing of any documents and services provided
pursuant to this chapter as follows:
1.The commission shall suspend same day or next day
service if the commission determines that it does not have the necessary
resources to perform the service within the established time period.
2.In addition to any other fees required by this
section or any other law, the commissioners may charge a nonrefundable fee for
the same day or next day service or both.The fee shall be
determined by a supermajority vote of the commissioners.
D.The commission shall publicly post the current
wait times for processing regular, expedited and same day and next day
services.
E.All monies received pursuant to subsections B and
C of this section shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in the public access fund established by section 10122.01.
F.Any person may advance monies to the commission
to pay fees required pursuant to this section for future filings and services.
All monies received pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, in the money on deposit account in the
public access fund established by section 10122.01.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"supermajority" means an affirmative vote of at least four
commissioners. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Appropriation; Arizona corporation commission
The sum of $3,000,000 is appropriated from the state general
fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the Arizona corporation commission for the
purpose of processing business entity filings pursuant to titles 10 and 29,
Arizona Revised Statutes.

