







REFERENCE TITLE: racing commission; continuation;
  conforming changes







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1435









Introduced by
Senator
  Pierce





AN ACT

amending sections
5104, 5107.01, 5113, 5131 and 41705, Arizona
Revised Statutes; Repealing section 413016.26, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending title 41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 413024.09; relating to the department of gaming.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-104, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-104.Racing commission; director; department; powers and duties
A.The commission shall:
1.Issue racing dates.
2.Prepare and adopt complete rules to govern the
racing meetings as may be required to protect and promote the safety and
welfare of the animals participating in racing meetings, to protect and promote
public health, safety and the proper conduct of racing and parimutuel
wagering and any other matter pertaining to the proper conduct of racing within
this state.
3.Conduct hearings on applications for permits and
approve permits and shall conduct rehearings on licensing and regulatory
decisions made by the director as required pursuant to rules adopted by the
commission.
4.Conduct all reviews of applications to construct
capital improvements at racetracks as provided in this chapter.
5.Adopt rules governing the proper and humane
methods for the disposition and transportation of dogs by breeders, kennels or
others.
B.The director shall license personnel and shall
regulate and supervise all racing meetings held and parimutuel wagering
conducted in this state and cause the various places where racing meetings are
held and wagering is conducted to be visited and inspected on a regular
basis.The director may delegate to stewards any of the director's
powers and duties as are necessary to fully carry out and effectuate the
purposes of this chapter. The director shall exercise immediate supervision
over the department of racing.
The director is subject to ongoing supervision by the commission, and the
commission may approve or reject decisions of the director in accordance with
rules established by the commission.
C.The commission or the department is authorized to
allow stewards, with the written approval of the director, to require a jockey,
apprentice jockey, sulky driver, groom, horseshoer, outrider, trainer,
assistant trainer, exercise rider, pony rider, starter, assistant starter,
jockey's agent, veterinarian, assistant veterinarian, coolout, leadout,
paddock employee, security or maintenance worker, official or individual licensed
in an occupational category whose role requires direct handson contact
with horses or greyhounds, while on the grounds of a permittee, to submit to a
test if the stewards have reason to believe the licensee is under the influence
of or unlawfully in possession of any prohibited substance regulated by title
13, chapter 34.
D.The department shall employ the services of the
office of administrative hearings to conduct hearings on matters requested to
be heard by the director or the commission for the department except for those
rehearings that are required by the terms of this chapter to be conducted by
the commission. Any person adversely affected by a decision of a steward or by
any other decision of the department may request a hearing on the decision.
The decision of the administrative law judge becomes the decision of the
director unless rejected or modified by the director within thirty days. The
commission may hear any appeal of a decision of the director in accordance with
title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
E.The department may visit and investigate the
offices, tracks or places of business of any permittee and place in those
offices, tracks or places of business expert accountants and other persons as
it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that the permittee or any
licensee is in compliance with the rules adopted pursuant to this article.
F.The department shall establish and collect the
following licensing fees and regulatory assessments, which shall not be reduced
for hardship tax credits pursuant to section 5111, subsection I or for
capital improvements pursuant to section 5111.02 or 5111.03:
1.For each racing license issued, a license fee.
2.From the purse accounts provided for in section
5-111, a regulatory assessment to pay for racing animal medication testing,
animal safety and welfare.
3.From each permittee, a regulatory assessment for
each day of dark day simulcasting conducted in excess of the number of live
racing days conducted by the permittee.
4.From each commercial racing permittee, a
regulatory assessment payable from amounts deducted from pari-mutuel pools by
the permittee, in addition to the amounts the permittee is authorized to deduct
pursuant to section 5111, subsection C from amounts wagered on live and
simulcast races from instate and outofstate wagering
handled by the permittee.
G.The commission shall establish financial
assistance procedures for promoting adoption of racing greyhounds as domestic
pets and for promoting adoption of retired racehorses.The provision
of financial assistance to nonprofit enterprises for the purpose of promoting
adoption of racing greyhounds as domestic pets and for the purpose of promoting
adoption of retired racehorses is contingent on a finding by the commission
that the program presented by the enterprise is in the best interest of the
racing industry and this state. On a finding by the commission, the commission
is authorized to make grants to nonprofit enterprises whose programs promote
adoption of racing greyhounds or adoption of retired racehorses.The
commission shall develop an application process.The commission
shall require an enterprise to report to the commission on the use of grants
under this subsection.Financial assistance for nonprofit enterprises
for the purpose of promoting adoption of racing greyhounds as domestic pets
under this subsection shall not exceed the amount collected for license fees
under subsection F of this section for greyhound racing kennels, farms or other
operations where greyhounds are raised for the purpose of dog racing. Financial
assistance for nonprofit enterprises that promote adoption of retired
racehorses under this subsection shall not exceed the amount of retired
racehorse adoption surcharges collected pursuant to this subsection. The
commission shall collect a retired racehorse adoption surcharge in addition to
each civil penalty assessed in connection with horse or harness racing pursuant
to this article.The amount of the retired racehorse adoption surcharge
shall be five per cent percent of the amount collected
for each applicable civil penalty. 
H.A license is valid for the period established by
the commission, but not to exceed three years, except for a temporary license
issued pursuant to section 5107.01, subsection F.The
licensing period for horse racing shall begin July 1.The licensing
period for greyhound racing shall begin February 1.
I.On application in writing by an objector to any
decision of track stewards, made within three days after the official
notification to the objector of the decision complained of, the department or
administrative law judge shall review the objection. In the case of a
suspension of a license by the track stewards, the suspension shall run for a
period of not more than six months.Before the end of this
suspension period, filing an application for review is not cause for
reinstatement. If at the end of this suspension period the department or
administrative law judge has not held a hearing to review the decision of the
stewards, the suspended license shall be reinstated until the department or
administrative law judge holds a hearing to review the
objection.Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, a final decision of the commission is subject to judicial review
pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
J.The commission or the director may issue
subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, records
and documents relevant and material to a particular matter before the commission
or department and the subpoenas shall be served and enforced in accordance with
title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
K.Any member of the commission, the administrative
law judge or the director or the director's designee may administer oaths, and
the oaths shall be administered to any person who appears before the commission
to give testimony or information pertaining to matters before the commission.
L.The commission shall adopt rules that require
permittees to retain for three months all official race photographs and
videotapes.The department shall retain all photographs and
videotapes that are used as evidence in an administrative proceeding until the
conclusion of the proceeding and any subsequent judicial
proceeding.All photographs and videotapes must be available to the
public on request, including photographs and videotapes of races concerning
which an objection is made, regardless of whether the objection is allowed or
disallowed.
M.The director may establish a management review
section for the development, implementation and operation of a system of
management reports and controls in major areas of department operations,
including licensing, work load management and staffing, and enforcement of the provisions of this article
and the rules of the commission.
N.In cooperation with the department of public
safety, the director shall establish a cooperative fingerprint registration
system.Each applicant for a license or permit under this article or
any other person who has a financial interest in the business or corporation
making the application shall submit to fingerprint registration as part of the
background investigation conducted pursuant to section 5108.The
cooperative fingerprint registration system shall be maintained in an updated
form using information from available law enforcement sources and shall provide
current information to the director upon
on request as to the
fitness of each racing permittee and each racing licensee to engage in the
racing industry in this state.
O.The director shall develop and require department
staff to use uniform procedural manuals in the issuance of any license or
permit under this article and in the enforcement of this article and the rules
adopted under this article.
P.The director shall submit an annual report
containing operational and economic performance information as is necessary to
evaluate the department's budget request for the forthcoming fiscal year to the
governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate
and the Arizona state library, archives and public records no later than
September 30 each year.The annual report shall be for the preceding
fiscal year and shall contain performance information as follows:
1.The total state revenues for the previous fiscal
year from the overall parimutuel handle with an itemization for each dog
racing meeting, each horse racing meeting, each harness racing meeting and each
additional wagering facility.
2.The total state revenues for the previous fiscal
year from the regulation of racing, including licensing fees assessed pursuant
to subsection F of this section and monetary penalties assessed pursuant to
section 5108.02.
3.The amount and use of capital improvement funds
pursuant to sections 5111.02 and 5111.03 that would otherwise be
state revenues.
4.The number of licenses and permits issued,
renewed, pending and revoked during the previous fiscal year.
5.The investigations conducted during the previous
fiscal year and any action taken as a result of the investigations.
6.The department budget for the immediately
preceding three fiscal years, including the number of fulltime, parttime,
temporary and contract employees, a statement of budget needs for the
forthcoming fiscal year and a statement of the minimum staff necessary to
accomplish these objectives.
7.Revenues generated for this state for the
preceding fiscal year by persons holding horse, harness and dog racing permits.
8.Recommendations for increasing state revenues
from the regulation of the racing industry while maintaining the financial
health of the industry and protecting the public interest.
Q.The commission may certify animals as Arizona
bred or as Arizona stallions.The commission may delegate this
authority to a breeders' association it contracts with for these
purposes.The commission may authorize the association, racing
organization or department to charge and collect a reasonable fee to cover the
cost of breeding or ownership certification or transfer of ownership for racing
purposes.
R.The department has responsibility for the
collection and accounting of revenues for the state boxing and mixed martial
arts commission,
including, but not limited to,
licensing fees required by section 5230, the levy of the tax on gross
receipts imposed by section 5104.02 and cash deposited pursuant to
section 5229. All revenues collected pursuant to this subsection, from
whatever source, shall be reported and deposited pursuant to section 5104.02,
subsection C, except that licensing fees required by section 5230 shall
be deposited in the racing regulation fund established by section 5113.01.The
director shall adopt rules as necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
subsection and chapter 2, article 2 of this title.
S.The commission may obtain the services of the
office of administrative hearings on any matter that the commission is
empowered to hear.
T.Notwithstanding any other rule or law, upon on application by a dog racing permittee, the
director may reduce the number of kennels required for any race to not less
than five kennels.
U.The department may adopt rules pursuant to title
41, chapter 6 to carry out the purposes of this article, ensure the safety and
integrity of racing in this state and protect the public interest. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 5-107.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-107.01.Necessity for permits for racing meetings; licenses for
officials and other persons
A.A person, association or corporation shall not
hold any racing meeting without having first obtained and having in full force
and effect a permit that is issued by the department.
B.No
A trainer, driver,
jockey, apprentice jockey, horse owner, dog owner, greyhound racing kennel
owner or operator, breeder of racing greyhounds, exercise boy
rider, agent, jockey's agent, stable foreman, groom, valet,
veterinarian, horseshoer, steward, stable watchman, starter, timer, judge, food
and beverage concessionaire, manager or other person acting as a participant or
official at any racing meeting including all employees of the parimutuel
department and any other person or official the department deems proper shall not participate in racing
meetings without having first obtained and having in full force and effect a
license or credentials that are issued by the department, pursuant to such
rules as the commission shall make. The department shall not revoke a license
except for cause and after a hearing. For the purposes of this subsection,
participate in a dog racing meeting includes breeding, raising and training a
dog and certifying as an Arizona bred dog. 
C.Each person, association or corporation that
holds a permit or a license under this chapter shall comply with all rules and
orders of the commission or department.
D.Any credential or license that is issued by the
department to a licensee shall be used only as prescribed by commission rule or
order of the director.Use for purposes other than those prescribed
is grounds for suspension or revocation or imposition of a civil penalty as
provided in section 5108.02, subsection E.
E.All applicants for a permit or license shall
submit to the department a full set of fingerprints, background information and
the fees that are required pursuant to section 411750. The department
of racing gaming shall submit the fingerprints to the
department of public safety for the purpose of obtaining a state and federal
criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.
The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the
federal bureau of investigation. The applicant shall pay the fingerprint fee
and costs of the background investigation in an amount that is determined by
the department.For such purpose the department of racing gaming
and the department of public safety may enter into an
intergovernmental agreement pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3. The
fees shall be credited pursuant to section 35148.
F.The director may issue a temporary license to an
owner, trainer, driver or jockey who is duly licensed in another jurisdiction
for special races or special circumstances for a period of not to exceed thirty
days. The director may allow a trainer so licensed to complete an application
for a temporary license for an owner if the owner is not immediately available
to personally submit the application.
G.A licensed owner, lessee or trainer of a
qualified horse who has applied to a permittee to be stabled at a track and who
has not been granted a stall shall not be prohibited from bringing the horse on
the race grounds for the purpose of entering the animal in races that are held
by the permittee or for the purposes of qualifying to race solely for the
reason that the animal is not being stabled at the track if the owner, lessee
or trainer is in compliance with rules adopted by the commission.No A dog racing permittee may not prohibit a licensed owner or a licensed
lessee of a qualified animal who has applied to be kenneled at the track and
who has not been granted a kennel to enter the animal in races that are held by
the permittee and to bring the animal on the track for purposes of qualifying
to race or to race solely for the reason that the animal is not being kenneled
at the track. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
5-113, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-113.Disposition of revenues and monies; funds; committee
A.All revenues
derived from permittees, permits and licenses as provided by this article shall
be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the racing
regulation fund established by section 5113.01, except that thirtyfive percent of the amounts
collected by the department from the regulatory assessments prescribed in
section 5104, subsection F, paragraph 4 shall be deposited in the
Arizona breeders' award fund established by subsection F of this section.The
commission shall further allocate all monies deposited in the Arizona breeders'
award fund pursuant to this subsection to support incentives as authorized by
subsection F of this section for thoroughbred and quarter horse breeds only.
B.The Arizona county fairs racing betterment fund
is established under the jurisdiction of the department.The
department shall distribute monies from the fund to the county fair association
or county fair racing association of each county conducting a county fair
racing meeting in a proportion that the department deems necessary for the
promotion and betterment of county fair racing meetings. All expenditures from
the fund shall be made on claims approved by the department.In
order to be eligible for distributions from the fund, a county fair association
must provide the department with an annual certification in the form required
by the department supporting expenditures made from the fund. Balances
remaining in the fund at the end of a fiscal year do not revert to the state
general fund.
C.The county fairs livestock and agriculture
promotion fund is established under the control of the governor and shall be
used for the purpose of promoting the livestock and agricultural resources of
the state and for the purpose of conducting an annual Arizona national
livestock fair by the Arizona exposition and state fair board to further
promote livestock resources. The direct expenses less receipts of the
livestock fair shall be paid from this fund, but this payment shall not exceed
thirty per cent percent of the receipts of the
fund for the preceding fiscal year.Balances remaining in the fund
at the end of a fiscal year do not revert to the state general
fund.All expenditures from the fund shall be made upon on
claims approved by the governor, as recommended by the livestock
and agriculture committee, for the promotion and betterment of the livestock
and agricultural resources of this state.The livestock and
agriculture committee is established and shall be composed of the following
members, at least three of whom are from counties that have a population of
less than five hundred thousand persons, appointed by the governor:
1.Three members representing county fairs.
2.One member representing Arizona livestock fairs.
3.One member representing the university of Arizona
college of agriculture.
4.One member representing the livestock industry.
5.One member representing the farming industry.
6.One member representing the governor's office.
7.One member representing the Arizona state fair
conducted by the Arizona exposition and state fair board.
8.One member representing the general public.
D.The governor shall appoint a chairman from the
members. Terms of members shall be four years.
E.Members of the committee are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible to receive reimbursement for expenses
pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2.
F.The Arizona breeders' award fund is established
under the jurisdiction of the department. The department shall distribute
monies from the fund to the breeder, or the breeder's heirs, devisees or
successors, of every winning horse or greyhound foaled or whelped in this
state, as defined by section 5114, in a manner and in an amount
established by rules of the commission to protect the integrity of the racing
industry and promote, improve and advance the quality of race horse and
greyhound breeding within this state.The department may contract
with a breeders' association to provide data, statistics and other information
necessary to enable the department to carry out the purposes of this
subsection. Persons who are not eligible to be licensed under section 5107.01
or persons who have been refused licenses under section 5108 are not
eligible to participate in the Arizona greyhound breeders' award fund.
Balances remaining in the fund at the end of a fiscal year do not revert to the
state general fund. For the purposes of this subsection, "breeder"
means the owner or lessee of the dam of the animal at the time the animal was
foaled or whelped.
G.The Arizona stallion award fund is established
under the jurisdiction of the department to promote, improve and advance the
quality of stallions in this state.The department shall distribute
monies from the fund to the owner or lessee, or the owner's or lessee's heirs,
devisees or successors, of every Arizona stallion whose certified Arizona bred
offspring, as prescribed in section 5114, finishes first, second or
third in an eligible race in this state.The department may contract
with a breeders' association to provide data, statistics and other information
necessary to enable the department to carry out the purposes of this
subsection. Balances remaining in the fund at the end of a fiscal year do not
revert to the state general fund. The commission shall adopt rules pursuant to
title 41, chapter 6 to carry out the purposes of this subsection. The rules
shall prescribe at a minimum:
1.The manner and procedure for distribution from
the fund, including eligibility requirements for owners and lessees.
2.Subject to availability of monies in the fund,
the amount to be awarded.
3.The requirements for a stallion registered with
the jockey club, Lexington, Kentucky or with the American quarter horse
association, Amarillo, Texas to be certified as an Arizona stallion.
4.The types and requirements of races for which an
award may be made.
H.The greyhound and retired racehorse adoption fund
is established. The department shall administer the fund and maintain separate
accounts for greyhound adoptions and retired racehorse adoptions. All revenues
derived from license fees collected from dog breeders, racing kennels and other
operations where greyhounds are raised for the purpose of dog racing pursuant
to section 5104, subsection F shall be deposited, pursuant to sections
35146 and 35147, in the greyhound adoption account of the
fund.All revenues derived from retired racehorse adoption
surcharges collected pursuant to section 5104, subsection G shall be
deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the retired
racehorse adoption account of the fund.The department shall
distribute monies from the fund to provide financial assistance to nonprofit
enterprises approved by the commission to promote the adoption of former racing
greyhounds as domestic pets and to promote the adoption of retired racehorses
pursuant to section 5104, subsection G in a manner and in an amount
established by rules of the commission.Balances remaining in the
fund at the end of a fiscal year do not revert to the state general fund.
I.The county fair racing fund is
established.The department shall administer the fund. Monies in
the fund are continuously appropriated.The department shall use
fund monies for the administration of county fair racing.Any monies
remaining unspent in the fund at the end of the fiscal year in excess of
seventyfive thousand dollars shall revert to the state general fund.
J.The agricultural consulting and training trust
fund is established for the exclusive purpose of implementing, continuing and
supporting the agricultural consulting and training program established by
section 3109.01. The director of the Arizona department of agriculture
shall administer the trust fund as trustee. The state treasurer shall accept,
separately account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state
treasury, which are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35310
and which shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury except
for investment purposes. On notice from the director, the state treasurer
shall invest and divest any trust fund monies deposited in the state treasury
as provided by sections 35313 and 35314.03, and monies earned
from investment shall be credited to the trust fund. The beneficiary of the
trust is the agricultural consulting and training program established by
section 3109.01. Surplus monies, including balances remaining in the
trust fund at the end of a fiscal year, do not revert to the state general
fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
5-131, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-131.Compact; authority to join
The department of racing
gaming and the racing
commission may join with other states in an interstate compact on licensure of
participants in live racing with parimutuel wagering as follows:
Article I
Rights and
Responsibilities of Each Party State
Section1.Rights and responsibilities of each
party state.
A.By enacting this compact, each party state:
1.Agrees to accept the decisions of the compact
committee regarding the issuance of compact committee licenses to participants
in live racing pursuant to the committee's licensure requirements.
2.Agrees not to treat a notification to an
applicant by the compact committee that the compact committee will not be able
to process the application further as the denial of a license, or to penalize
such an applicant in any other way based solely on such a decision by the
compact committee.
3.Reserves the right:
(a)To charge a fee for the use of a compact
committee license in that state.
(b)To apply its own standards in determining
whether, on the facts of a particular case, a compact committee license should
be suspended or revoked.
(c)To apply its own standards in determining
licensure eligibility, under the laws of that party state, for categories of
participants in live racing that the compact committee determines not to license
and for individual participants in live racing who do not meet the licensure
requirements of the compact committee.
(d)To establish its own licensure standards for the
licensure of nonracing employees at parimutuel racetracks and employees
at separate satellite wagering facilities.
B.Any party state that suspends or revokes a
compact committee license, through its racing commission or its equivalent or
otherwise, shall promptly notify the compact committee of that suspension or
revocation.
C.A party state shall not be held liable for the
debts or other financial obligations incurred by the compact committee.
D.The department of racing gaming
may adopt rules to carry out the purposes of this section.
Article II
Construction and
Severability
Section2.Construction
and severability.
This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate
its purposes. The provisions of this compact shall be severable, and, if any
phrase, clause, sentence or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary
to the Constitution of the United States or of any party state, or the
applicability of this compact to any government, agency, person or circumstance
is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this compact and its
applicability to any government, agency, person or circumstance shall not be
affected thereby. If all or some portion of this compact is held to be
contrary to the constitution of any party state, the compact shall remain in
full force and effect as to the remaining party states and in full force and
effect as to the state affected as to all severable matters.
Article
III
Definitions
For the purposes of this
compact:
1."Compact
committee" means the organization of officials from the party states that
is authorized and empowered by the compact to carry out the purposes of this
compact.
2."Official" means the appointed,
elected, designated or otherwise duly elected representative of a racing
commission or the equivalent thereof in a party state who represents that party
as a member of the compact committee.
3."Participants in live racing" means
participants in live racing with parimutuel wagering in the party
states.
4."Party state" means each state that has
enacted this compact.
5."State" means each of the several
states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and each territory or possession of the United States.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 41-705, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-705.Racing investigation fund; distributions; refund
A.The racing investigation fund is established
consisting of monies deposited for the projected cost of investigations
conducted pursuant to title 5, chapter 1 by persons, partnerships, associations
or corporations that hold a permit for a racing meeting under title 5. Monies
deposited into the fund shall be made in a reasonable amount based on a request
from the director of the Arizona
department of racing gaming.The
department of administration shall administer the fund.Monies in
the fund are continuously appropriated and are exempt from the provisions of
section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
B.Monies distributed from the fund are subject to
the following restrictions:
1.Distributions shall be made pursuant to
instructions from the director of the department of racing gaming
to the director of the department of administration.
2.Distributions shall be limited to expenses that
are authorized under title 5, chapter 1, article 1 and that are incurred in
compliance with chapter 23 of this title including open and competitive bidding
for all services.
C.On the instruction of the director of the
department of racing gaming, the department of
administration at the conclusion of an investigation shall refund to the
permittee the difference between the amount deposited into the fund by that
permittee and the total actual cost of the investigation. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Section 41-3016.26, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
repealed.
Sec.7.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-3024.09, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3024.09.Arizona racing commission; termination July 1, 2024
A.The
Arizona racing commission terminates on July 1, 2024.
B.Title 5,
chapter 1 is repealed on January 1, 2025. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Purpose
Pursuant to section 412955, subsection B, Arizona
Revised Statutes, the legislature continues the Arizona racing commission to
regulate the racing industry in this state for the protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare.
Sec.9.Retroactivity 
Sections 6 and 7 of this act are effective retroactively to
July 1,2016.

