







REFERENCE TITLE: abortion; waiting period; informed
  consent







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1483









Introduced by
Senators
  Sherwood: Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

Amending sections
362153, 362156 and 362158, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to abortion.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-2153, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2153.Informed consent; requirements; information; website;
signs; violation; civil relief; statute of limitations 
A.An abortion shall not be performed or induced
without the voluntary and informed consent of the woman on whom the abortion is
to be performed or induced.Except in the case of rape, incest or a medical emergency and in
addition to the other requirements of this chapter, consent to an abortion is
voluntary and informed only if all of the following are true:
1.At least
twentyfour hours before the abortion, The physician who is
to perform the abortion or the referring physician has informed the woman,
orally and in person, of:
(a)The name of the physician who will perform the
abortion.
(b)The nature of the proposed procedure or
treatment.
(c)The immediate and long-term medical risks
associated with the procedure that a reasonable patient would consider material
to the decision of whether or not to undergo the abortion.
(d)Alternatives to the procedure or treatment that
a reasonable patient would consider material to the decision of whether or not
to undergo the abortion.
(e)The probable gestational age of the unborn child
at the time the abortion is to be performed.
(f)The probable anatomical and physiological
characteristics of the unborn child at the time the abortion is to be
performed.
(g)The medical risks associated with carrying the
child to term.
2.At least
twentyfour hours before the abortion, The physician who is
to perform the abortion, the referring physician or a qualified physician,
physician assistant, nurse, psychologist or licensed behavioral health
professional to whom the responsibility has been delegated by either physician
has informed the woman, orally and in person, that:
(a)Medical assistance benefits may be available for
prenatal care, childbirth and neonatal care.
(b)The father of the unborn child is liable to
assist in the support of the child, even if he has offered to pay for the
abortion. In the case of rape or incest,
this information may be omitted.
(c)Public and private agencies and services are
available to assist the woman during her pregnancy and after the birth of her
child if she chooses not to have an abortion, whether she chooses to keep the
child or place the child for adoption.
(d)It is unlawful for any person to coerce a woman
to undergo an abortion.
(e)The woman is free to withhold or withdraw her
consent to the abortion at any time without affecting her right to future care
or treatment and without the loss of any state or federally funded benefits to
which she might otherwise be entitled.
(f)The department of health services maintains a
website that describes the unborn child and lists the agencies that offer alternatives
to abortion.
(g)The woman has a right to review the website and
that a printed copy of the materials on the website will be provided to her
free of charge if she chooses to review these materials.
(h)It may be possible to reverse the effects of a
medication abortion if the woman changes her mind but that time is of the
essence.
(i)Information on and assistance with reversing the
effects of a medication abortion is available on the department of health
services' website.
3.The information in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
subsection is provided to the woman individually and in a private room to
protect her privacy and to ensure that the information focuses on her
individual circumstances and that she has adequate opportunity to ask
questions.
4.The woman certifies in writing before the
abortion that the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraphs 1
and 2 of this subsection has been provided.
B.If a medical emergency compels the performance of
an abortion, the physician shall inform the woman, before the abortion if
possible, of the medical indications supporting the physician's judgment that
an abortion is necessary to avert the woman's death or to avert substantial and
irreversible impairment of a major bodily function.
C.The department of health services shall establish
and shall annually update a website that includes a link to a printable version
of all materials listed on the website. The materials must be written in an
easily understood manner and printed in a typeface that is large enough to be
clearly legible.The website must include all of the following
materials:
1.Information that is organized geographically by
location and that is designed to inform the woman about public and private
agencies and services that are available to assist a woman through pregnancy,
at childbirth and while her child is dependent, including adoption agencies.
The materials shall include a comprehensive list of the agencies, a description
of the services they offer and the manner in which these agencies may be
contacted, including the agencies' telephone numbers and website addresses.
2.Information on the availability of medical
assistance benefits for prenatal care, childbirth and neonatal care.
3.A statement that it is unlawful for any person to
coerce a woman to undergo an abortion.
4.A statement that any physician who performs an
abortion on a woman without obtaining the woman's voluntary and informed
consent or without affording her a private medical consultation may be liable
to the woman for damages in a civil action.
5.A statement that the father of a child is liable
to assist in the support of that child, even if the father has offered to pay
for an abortion, and that the law allows adoptive parents to pay costs of
prenatal care, childbirth and neonatal care.
6.Information that is designed to inform the woman
of the probable anatomical and physiological characteristics of the unborn
child at twoweek gestational increments from fertilization to full term,
including pictures or drawings representing the development of unborn children
at twoweek gestational increments and any relevant information on the
possibility of the unborn child's survival.The pictures or drawings
must contain the dimensions of the unborn child and must be realistic and
appropriate for each stage of pregnancy. The information provided pursuant to
this paragraph must be objective, nonjudgmental and designed to convey only
accurate scientific information about the unborn child at the various gestational
ages.
7.Objective information that describes the methods
of abortion procedures commonly employed, the medical risks commonly associated
with each procedure, the possible detrimental psychological effects of abortion
and the medical risks commonly associated with carrying a child to term.
8.Information on the potential ability of qualified
medical professionals to reverse a medication abortion, including information
directing women where to obtain further information and assistance in locating
a medical professional who can aid in the reversal of a medication abortion.
D.An individual who is not a physician shall not
perform a surgical abortion.
E.A person
shall not write or communicate a prescription for a drug or drugs to induce an
abortion or require or obtain payment for a service provided to a patient who
has inquired about an abortion or scheduled an abortion until the expiration of
the twenty-fourhour reflection period required by subsection A of this
section.
F.E.A
person shall not intimidate or coerce in any way any person to obtain an
abortion. A parent, a guardian or any other person shall not coerce a minor to
obtain an abortion. If a minor is denied financial support by the minor's
parents, guardians or custodian due to the minor's refusal to have an abortion
performed, the minor is deemed emancipated for the purposes of eligibility for
public assistance benefits, except that the emancipated minor may not use these
benefits to obtain an abortion.
G.F.An
abortion clinic as defined in section 36449.01 shall conspicuously post
signs that are visible to all who enter the abortion clinic, that are clearly
readable and that state it is unlawful for any person to force a woman to have
an abortion and a woman who is being forced to have an abortion has the right
to contact any local or state law enforcement or social service agency to
receive protection from any actual or threatened physical, emotional or
psychological abuse. The signs shall be posted in the waiting room,
consultation rooms and procedure rooms.
H.G.A
person shall not require a woman to obtain an abortion as a provision in a
contract or as a condition of employment.
I.H.A
physician who knowingly violates this section commits an act of unprofessional
conduct and is subject to license suspension or revocation pursuant to title
32, chapter 13 or 17.
J.I.In
addition to other remedies available under the common or statutory law of this
state, any of the following may file a civil action to obtain appropriate
relief for a violation of this section:
1.A woman on whom an abortion has been performed
without her informed consent as required by this section.
2.The father of the unborn child if the father was married to the mother at the
time she received the abortion, unless the pregnancy resulted from the
plaintiff's criminal conduct.
3.The
A maternal grandparents grandparent of the unborn child if the mother
was not at least eighteen years of age at the time of the abortion, unless the
pregnancy resulted from the plaintiff's criminal conduct.
K.J.A
civil action filed pursuant to subsection J I
of this section shall be brought in the superior court in the county in which
the woman on whom the abortion was performed resides and may be based on a
claim that failure to obtain informed consent was a result of simple
negligence, gross negligence, wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other
legal standard of care.Relief pursuant to subsection J
I of this section includes the following:
1.Money damages for all psychological, emotional
and physical injuries resulting from the violation of this section.
2.Statutory damages in an amount equal to five
thousand dollars or three times the cost of the abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney fees and costs.
L.K.A
civil action brought pursuant to this section must be initiated within six
years after the violation occurred. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 36-2156, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2156.Informed consent; ultrasound required; violation; civil
relief; statute of limitations
A.An abortion shall not be performed or induced
without the voluntary and informed consent of the woman on whom the abortion is
to be performed or induced. Except in the case of rape, incest or a medical emergency, and in addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, consent to an abortion is voluntary and informed
only if both of the following are true:
1.At least
twentyfour hours before the woman having any part of an abortion
performed or induced, and Before the administration of any
anesthesia or medication in preparation for the abortion on the woman, the
physician who is to perform the abortion, the referring physician or a
qualified person working in conjunction with either physician shall:
(a)Perform fetal ultrasound imaging and
auscultation of fetal heart tone services on the woman undergoing the abortion.
(b)Offer to provide the woman with an opportunity
to view the active ultrasound image of the unborn child and hear the heartbeat
of the unborn child if the heartbeat is audible. The active ultrasound image
must be of a quality consistent with standard medical practice in the community,
contain the dimensions of the unborn child and accurately portray the presence
of external members and internal organs, if present or viewable, of the unborn
child. The auscultation of fetal heart tone must be of a quality consistent
with standard medical practice in the community.
(c)Offer to provide the woman with a simultaneous
explanation of what the ultrasound is depicting, including the presence and
location of the unborn child within the uterus, the number of unborn children
depicted, the dimensions of the unborn child and the presence of any external
members and internal organs, if present or viewable.
(d)Offer to provide the patient with a physical
picture of the ultrasound image of the unborn child.
2.The woman certifies in writing before the
abortion that she has been given the opportunity to view the active ultrasound
image and hear the heartbeat of the unborn child if the heartbeat is audible
and that she opted to view or not view the active ultrasound image and hear or
not hear the heartbeat of the unborn child.
B.A physician who knowingly violates this section
commits an act of unprofessional conduct and is subject to license suspension
or revocation pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
C.In addition to other remedies available under the
common or statutory law of this state, any of the following may file a civil
action to obtain appropriate relief for a violation of this section:
1.A woman on whom an abortion has been performed
without her informed consent as required by this section.
2.The father of the unborn child if the father was married to the mother at the
time she received the abortion, unless the pregnancy resulted from the
plaintiff's criminal conduct.
3.The
A maternal grandparents grandparent of the unborn child if the mother
was not at least eighteen years of age at the time of the abortion, unless the
pregnancy resulted from the plaintiff's criminal conduct.
D.A civil action filed pursuant to subsection C of
this section shall be brought in the superior court in the county in which the
woman on whom the abortion was performed resides and may be based on a claim
that failure to obtain informed consent was a result of simple negligence,
gross negligence, wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other legal standard
of care. Relief pursuant to subsection C of this section includes any of the
following:
1.Money damages for all psychological, emotional
and physical injuries resulting from the violation of this section.
2.Statutory damages in an amount equal to five
thousand dollars or three times the cost of the abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney fees and costs.
E.A civil action brought pursuant to this section
must be initiated within six years after the violation occurred. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-2158, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2158.Informed consent; fetal condition; website; unprofessional
conduct; civil relief; statute of limitations; definitions
A.A person shall not perform or induce an abortion
without first obtaining the voluntary and informed consent of the woman on whom
the abortion is to be performed or induced. Except in the case of a medical
emergency and in addition to the other requirements of this chapter, consent to
an abortion is voluntary and informed only if all of the following occur:
1.In the case of a woman seeking an abortion of her
unborn child diagnosed with a lethal fetal condition, at least twenty-four hours before the abortion
the physician who is to perform the abortion or the referring physician has
informed the woman, orally and in person, that:
(a)Perinatal
hospice services are available and the physician has offered this care as an
alternative to abortion.
(b)The
department of health services maintains a website that lists perinatal hospice
programs that are available both in this state and nationally and that are
organized geographically by location.
(c)The woman has a right to review the website and
that a printed copy of the materials on the website will be provided to her
free of charge if she chooses to review these materials.
2.In the case of a woman seeking an abortion of her
unborn child diagnosed with a nonlethal fetal condition, at least twenty-four hours before the abortion
the physician who is to perform the abortion or the referring physician has
informed the woman, orally and in person:
(a)Of
up-to-date, evidence-based information concerning the range of outcomes for
individuals living with the diagnosed condition, including physical,
developmental, educational and psychosocial outcomes.
(b)That
the department of health services maintains a website that lists information
regarding support services, hotlines, resource centers or clearinghouses,
national and local peer support groups and other education and support programs
available to assist the woman and her unborn child, any national or local
registries of families willing to adopt newborns with the nonlethal fetal
condition and contact information for adoption agencies willing to place
newborns with the nonlethal fetal condition with families willing to adopt.
(c)That the woman has a right to review the website
and that a printed copy of the materials on the website will be provided to her
free of charge if she chooses to review these materials.
3.The woman certifies in writing before the
abortion that the information required to be provided pursuant to this
subsection has been provided.
B.The department of health services shall establish
a website within ninety days after the
effective date of this section and shall annually update the website.The a website shall include that includes the information prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (b) and paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of
this section.
C.A physician who knowingly violates this section
commits an act of unprofessional conduct and is subject to license suspension
or revocation pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
D.In addition to other remedies available under the
common or statutory law of this state, any of the following individuals may
file a civil action to obtain appropriate relief for a violation of this
section:
1.A woman on whom an abortion has been performed
without her informed consent as required by this section.
2.The father of the unborn child if the father is was married to the mother at the time she
received the abortion, unless the pregnancy resulted from the father's criminal
conduct.
3.The A maternal grandparents grandparent of the unborn child if the mother
was not at least eighteen years of age at the time of the abortion, unless the
pregnancy resulted from either of
the maternal grandparent's criminal conduct.
E.A civil action filed pursuant to subsection D of
this section shall be brought in the superior court in the county in which the
woman on whom the abortion was performed resides and may be based on a claim
that failure to obtain informed consent was a result of simple negligence, gross
negligence, wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other legal standard of
care. Relief pursuant to this subsection includes the following:
1.Money damages for all psychological, emotional
and physical injuries resulting from the violation of this section.
2.Statutory damages in an amount equal to five
thousand dollars or three times the cost of the abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney fees and costs.
F.A civil action brought pursuant to this section
must be initiated within six years after the violation occurred.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Lethal fetal condition" means a fetal
condition that is diagnosed before birth and that will result, with reasonable
certainty, in the death of the unborn child within three months after birth.
2."Nonlethal fetal condition" means a
fetal condition that is diagnosed before birth and that will not result in the
death of the unborn child within three months after birth but may result in
physical or mental disability or abnormality.
3."Perinatal hospice" means comprehensive
support to the pregnant woman and her family that includes supportive care from
the time of diagnosis through the time of birth and death of the infant and
through the postpartum period.Supportive care may include
counseling and medical care by maternalfetal medical specialists,
obstetricians, neonatologists, anesthesia specialists, clergy, social workers
and specialty nurses who are focused on alleviating fear and ensuring that the
woman and her family experience the life and death of the child in a
comfortable and supportive environment. END_STATUTE

