







REFERENCE TITLE: Arizona commerce authority;
  continuation; report







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1501









Introduced by
Senators
  Yee, Worsley; Representative Petersen: Senators Cajero Bedford, Meza





AN ACT

amending section
411504, arizona revised statutes; Repealing section 413016.29,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41, chapter 27, section 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 413018.01; relating to the arizona
commerce authority.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1504.Powers and duties; e-verify requirement
A.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, may:
1.Adopt and use a corporate seal.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Enter into contracts as necessary to carry out
the purposes and requirements of this chapter, including intergovernmental
agreements pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 and interagency service
agreements as provided by section 35148.
4.Lease real property and improvements to real
property for the purposes of the authority. Leases by the authority are exempt
from chapter 4, article 7 of this title, relating to management of state
properties.
5.Employ or retain legal counsel and other
consultants as necessary to carry out the purposes of the authority.
6.Develop and use written policies, procedures and
guidelines for the terms and conditions of employing officers and employees of
the authority and may include background checks of appropriate personnel.
B.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, shall:
1.Develop comprehensive long-range strategic
economic plans for this state and submit the plans to the governor.
2.Annually update a strategic economic plan for
submission to the governor.
3.Accept gifts, grants and loans and enter into
contracts and other transactions with any federal or state agency,
municipality, private organization or other source.
C.The authority shall:
1.Assess and collect fees for processing
applications and administering incentives. The board shall adopt the manner of
computing the amount of each fee to be assessed. Within thirty days after
proposing fees for adoption, the chief executive officer shall submit a
schedule of the fees for review by the joint legislative budget committee. It
is the intent of the legislature that a fee shall not exceed one per cent percent of the amount of the incentive.
2.Determine and collect registry fees for the
administration of the allocation of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Such monies collected
by the authority shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in an authority bond fund. Monies in the fund shall be used, subject to annual
appropriation by the legislature, by the authority to administer the
allocations provided in this paragraph and are exempt from the provisions of
section 35190 relating to the lapsing of appropriations.
3.Determine and collect security deposits for the
allocation, for the extension of allocations and for the difference between
allocations and principal amounts of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Security deposits
forfeited to the authority shall be deposited in the state general fund.
4.At the direction of the board, establish and
supervise the operations of full-time or part-time offices in other states and
foreign countries for the purpose of expanding direct investment and export
trade opportunities for businesses and industries in this state if, based on
objective research, the authority determines that the effort would be
beneficial to the economy of this state.
5.Establish a program by which entrepreneurs become
aware of permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to establish, expand
or operate in this state.
6.Be the state registration agency for
apprenticeship functions prescribed by the federal government.
7.Post
on its website on an annual basis a report containing at least the following
information:
(a)The cumulative
progress made toward its goals for job creation, capital investment and higher
average wages. 
(b)To the extent not
prohibited by law, information on each incentive application approved by the
authority in the fiscal year, including the amount of the incentive approved or
awarded and the applicant's activity that is projected or has been achieved,
whichever is applicable, to qualify for the incentive. 
8.Develop
and implement written policies and procedures relating to the administration of
grants from the Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01,
including the following elements:
(a)Procedures for
documenting grantee selection and due diligence.
(b)Procedures for
verification of information submitted by grantees.
(c)Procedures for
evaluating requests to amend grant terms and for documenting decisions relating
to those requests.
D.The authority, through the chief executive
officer, may:
1.Contract and incur obligations reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of the authority's activities
and operations to enable the authority to adequately perform its duties.
2.Use monies, facilities or services to provide
matching contributions under federal or other programs that further the
objectives and programs of the authority.
3.Accept gifts, grants, matching monies or direct
payments from public or private agencies or private persons and enterprises for
the conduct of programs that are consistent with the general purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
4.Assess business fees for promotional services
provided to businesses that export products and services from this state. The
fees shall not exceed the actual costs of the services provided.
5.Establish and maintain one or more accounts in
banks or other depositories, for public or private monies of the authority,
from which operational activities, including payroll, vendor and grant
payments, may be conducted. Individual funds that are established by law under
the jurisdiction of the authority may be maintained in separate accounts in
banks or other depositories, but shall not be commingled with any other monies
or funds of the authority.
E.The chief executive officer shall:
1.Hire employees and prescribe the terms and
conditions of their employment as necessary to carry out the purposes of the authority.
The board of directors shall adopt written policies, procedures and guidelines,
similar to those adopted by the department of administration, regarding officer
and employee compensation, observed holidays, leave and reimbursement of travel
expenses and health and accident insurance.The officers and
employees of the authority are exempt from any laws regulating state
employment, including:
(a)Chapter 4, articles 5 and 6 of this title,
relating to state service.
(b)Title 38, chapter 4, article 1 and chapter 5,
article 2, relating to state personnel compensation, leave and retirement.
(c)Title 38, chapter 4, article 2, relating to
reimbursement of state employee expenses.
(d)Title 38, chapter 4, article 4, relating to
health and accident insurance.
2.On a quarterly basis, provide public record data
in a manner prescribed by the department of administration related to the
authority's revenues and expenditures for inclusion in the comprehensive
database of receipts and expenditures of state monies pursuant to section 41725.
F.In addition to any other requirement, in order to
qualify for any grant, loan, reimbursement, tax incentive or other economic
development incentive pursuant to this chapter, an applicant that is an
employer must register with and participate in the e-verify program in
compliance with section 23214. The authority shall require verification
of compliance with this subsection as part of any application process.
G.Notwithstanding any other law, the authority is
subject to chapter 3.1, article 1 of this title, relating to risk management.
H.The authority is exempt from chapter 32, articles
1 and 2 of this title, relating to statewide information technology. The
authority shall adopt policies, procedures and guidelines regarding information
technology.
I.The authority is exempt from state general
accounting and finance practices and rules adopted pursuant to chapter 4,
article 3 of this title, but the board shall adopt written accounting
practices, systems and procedures for the economic and efficient operation of
the authority.
J.The authority is exempt from section 41712,
relating to the installation and maintenance of telecommunications
telecommunication systems.
K.The authority may lease or purchase motor vehicles
for use by employees to conduct business activities. The authority is exempt
from section 41803, relating to the state motor vehicle fleet, and title
38, chapter 3, article 10, relating to vehicle usage and markings.
L.Any tangible or intangible record submitted to or
compiled by the board or the authority in connection with its work, including
the award of monies, is subject to title 39, chapter 1, unless an applicant
shows, or the board or authority determines, that specific information meets either
of the following:
1.If made public, the information would divulge the
applicant's or potential applicant's trade secrets, as defined in section 44401.
2.If made public, the information could potentially
harm the applicant's, the potential
applicant's or this state's competitive position relating to potential business
development opportunities and strategies.
M.The authority is exempt from chapter 25, article
1 of this title, relating to government competition with private enterprise. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Section 41-3016.29,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.3.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-3018.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3018.01.Arizona commerce authority; termination July 1, 2018
A.The
Arizona commerce authority terminates on July 1, 2018.
B.Title 41,
chapter 10 is repealed on January 1, 2019.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Purpose 
Pursuant to section 412955, subsection B, Arizona
Revised Statutes, the legislature continues the Arizona commerce authority to
facilitate the beneficial economic growth and development of this state and to
promote prosperity through the development and protection of the legitimate
interests of Arizona business, industry and commerce within and outside this
state.
Sec.5.Retroactivity
Sections 2 and 3 of this act are effective retroactively to
July 1, 2016.

