







REFERENCE TITLE: amusement gambling; definition; money







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1515









Introduced by
Senator
  Driggs





AN ACT

amending section
133301, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to gambling.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3301.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Amusement gambling" means gambling
involving a device, game or contest which is played for entertainment if all of
the following apply:
(a)The player or players actively participate in
the game or contest or with the device.
(b)The outcome is not in the control to any
material degree of any person other than the player or players.
(c)The prizes are not offered as a lure to separate
the player or players from their money or
other thing of value.
(d)Any of the following:
(i)No benefit is given to the player or players
other than an immediate and unrecorded right to replay which is not
exchangeable for value.
(ii)The gambling is an athletic event and no person
other than the player or players derives a profit or chance of a profit from
the money or other thing of value
paid to gamble by the player or players.
(iii)The gambling is an intellectual contest or
event, the money or other thing of
value paid to gamble is part of an established purchase price for
a product, no increment has been added to the price in connection with the
gambling event and no drawing or lottery is held to determine the winner or
winners.
(iv)Skill and not chance is clearly the predominant
factor in the game and the odds of winning the game based upon chance cannot be
altered, provided the game complies with any licensing or regulatory
requirements by the jurisdiction in which it is operated, no benefit for a
single win is given to the player or players other than a merchandise prize
which has a wholesale fair market value of less than ten dollars or coupons
which are redeemable only at the place of play and only for a merchandise prize
which has a fair market value of less than ten dollars and, regardless of the
number of wins, no aggregate of coupons may be redeemed for a merchandise prize
with a wholesale fair market value of greater than five hundred fifty dollars.
2."Conducted as a business" means
gambling that is engaged in with the object of gain, benefit or advantage,
either direct or indirect, realized or unrealized, but not when incidental to a
bona fide social relationship.
3."Crane game" means an amusement machine
which is operated by player controlled buttons, control sticks or other means,
or a combination of the buttons or controls, which is activated by coin
insertion into the machine and where the player attempts to successfully
retrieve prizes with a mechanical or electromechanical claw or device by
positioning the claw or device over a prize.
4."Gambling" or "gamble" means
one act of risking or giving something of value for the opportunity to obtain a
benefit from a game or contest of chance or skill or a future contingent event
but does not include bona fide business transactions which are valid under the
law of contracts including contracts for the purchase or sale at a future date
of securities or commodities, contracts of indemnity or guarantee and life,
health or accident insurance.
5."Player" means a natural person who participates
in gambling.
6."Regulated gambling" means either:
(a)Gambling conducted in accordance with a tribalstate
gaming compact or otherwise in accordance with the requirements of the Indian
gaming regulatory act of 1988 (P.L. 100-497; 102 Stat. 2467; 25 United States
Code sections 2701 through 2721 and 18 United States Code sections 1166 through
1168); or
(b)Gambling to which all of the following apply:
(i)It is operated and controlled in accordance with
a statute, rule or order of this state or of the United States.
(ii)All federal, state or local taxes, fees and
charges in lieu of taxes have been paid by the authorized person or entity on
any activity arising out of or in connection with the gambling.
(iii)If conducted by an organization which is
exempt from taxation of income under section 431201, the organization's
records are open to public inspection.
(iv)Beginning
on June 1, 2003, None of the players is under twentyone
years of age.
7."Social gambling" means gambling that
is not conducted as a business and that involves players who compete on equal
terms with each other in a gamble if all of the following apply:
(a)No player receives, or becomes entitled to
receive, any benefit, directly or indirectly, other than the player's winnings
from the gamble.
(b)No other person receives or becomes entitled to
receive any benefit, directly or indirectly, from the gambling activity,
including benefits of proprietorship, management or unequal advantage or odds
in a series of gambles.
(c)Until June
1, 2003, none of the players is below the age of majority. Beginning on June
1, 2003, None
of the players is under twenty-one years of age.
(d)Players "compete on equal terms with each
other in a gamble" when no player enjoys an advantage over any other
player in the gamble under the conditions or rules of the game or contest. END_STATUTE

