







REFERENCE TITLE: drop box; private property; consent







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1504









Introduced by
Senators
  Kavanagh, Hobbs, Sherwood; Representative Thorpe: Senators Burges, Contreras,
  Farley, Meza, Quezada; Representatives Alston, Kern, Mesnard, Mitchell,
  Shope, Weninger





AN ACT

amending title
33, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 23; relating to private
property.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 33, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 23, to read:
Chapter 23
Private Property
Rights
Article 1.
General Provisions
START_STATUTE33-2501.Drop box; private property; required consent; exemptions;
definitions
A.Any person that places a drop box on private
property shall obtain notarized approval that is signed by the private property
owner or the private property owner's authorized agent before placing the drop
box on the private property.
B.All drop boxes shall display, in a clear and
conspicuous manner, the name of the person that owns the drop box and the
contact information for the drop box owner, including the person's name, address,
telephone number and e-mail address.
C.The private property owner or the private
property owner's authorized agent may rescind permission for the placement of a
drop box on the private property at any time. The private property owner or
the private property owner's authorized agent shall notify the owner of the
drop box by certified mail of the decision to rescind permission for the
placement of the drop box. The notice shall be mailed to the address listed on
the drop box. The drop box owner shall remove the drop box within ten business
days after receipt of the notification. If the drop box is not removed after
ten business days, the private property owner or the private property owner's
authorized agent may dispose of the drop box and its contents.
D.Any drop box that is placed on private
property without notarized consent of the private property owner or the private
property owner's authorized agent may be removed and disposed of by the private
property owner or the private property owner's authorized agent at any time
without notification.
E.A private property owner or the private
property owner's authorized agent who removes a drop box pursuant to subsection
C or D of this section is not liable for the losses associated with the removal
of a drop box and its contents.
F.This section does not:
1.Apply to a drop box that is located on private
property that is owned by the person that owns the drop box.
2.Preempt a city or town from adopting an
ordinance to regulate drop boxes if the ordinance does not conflict with this
section.
3.Preempt a county board of supervisors from
adopting an ordinance or resolution to regulate drop boxes if the ordinance or
resolution does not conflict with this section.
4.Apply to a written license or lease agreement
or written contract between the private property owner and the owner of the
drop box or an existing tenant or lessee.
5.Create any additional liability,
responsibility or duty on another tenant or lessee of the private property.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Drop box" means any container,
storage unit or structure, other than a primary building or accessory building,
used for the collection of donated items by the general public, including
clothing, materials, household goods, toys, books and papers.
2."Private property owner's authorized
agent" means an individual who is either:
(a)If
the private property owner is a corporation, a principal executive officer or
other corporate officer with signatory powers pursuant to the corporation's bylaws
or a vote of the directors.
(b)If
the private property owner is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor.
(c)A
duly authorized representative who is responsible for the overall operation of
the private property or who has authority to sign contracts, permits, permit
applications, monitoring results and other documents in the private property
owner's name. END_STATUTE

