







REFERENCE TITLE: veterans; disability; property tax
  relief







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1018









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of Arizona; amending article IX, section 2,
Constitution of Arizona; amending article IX, Constitution of Arizona, by
adding section 2.4; relating to property tax exemptions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.Article IX, section 2, Constitution of Arizona,
is proposed to be amended as follows if approved by the voters and on
proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE2.Property subject to taxation; exemptions
Section 2.(1)There shall be exempt
from taxation all federal, state, county and municipal property.
(2)Property of educational, charitable and
religious associations or institutions not used or held for profit may be
exempt from taxation by law.
(3)Public debts, as evidenced by the bonds of
Arizona, or its counties, municipalities
or other subdivisions, shall also be exempt from taxation.
(4)All household goods owned by the user thereof
and used solely for noncommercial purposes shall be exempt from taxation, and
such person entitled to such exemption shall not be required to take any
affirmative action to receive the benefit of such exemption.
(5)Stocks of raw or finished materials,
unassembled parts, work in process or finished products constituting the
inventory of a retailer or wholesaler located within the state and principally
engaged in the resale of such materials, parts or products, whether or not for
resale to the ultimate consumer, shall be exempt from taxation.
(6)The legislature may exempt personal property
that is used for agricultural purposes or in a trade or business from taxation
in a manner provided by law, except that the exemption does not apply to any
amount of the full cash value of the personal property of a taxpayer that
exceeds fifty thousand dollars.The legislature may provide by law
to increase the exempt amount according to annual variations in a designated
national inflation index.
(7)The legislature may exempt the property of
cemeteries that are set apart and used to inter deceased human beings from
taxation in a manner provided by law.
(8)There
shall be further exempt from taxation the property of each honorably discharged
airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue marine
service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the component
of auxiliary of any thereof, resident of this state, in the amount of:
(a)One
thousand five hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not
exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One
thousand dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand dollars.
(c)Five
hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two
hundred fifty dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed
five thousand dollars.
(e)No
exemption if the total assessment of such person exceeds five thousand dollars.
No such exemption shall
be made for such person unless such person shall have served at least sixty
days in the military or naval service of the United States during World War I
or prior wars and shall have been a resident of this state prior to September
1, 1945.
(9)There shall
be further exempt from taxation as herein provided the property of each
honorably discharged airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of
revenue marine service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or
of the component of auxiliary of any thereof, resident of this state, where
such person has a serviceconnected disability as determined by the
United States veterans administration or its successor.No such
exemption shall be made for such person unless he shall have been a resident of
this state prior to September 1, 1945 or unless such person shall have been a
resident of this state for at least four years prior to his original entry into
service as an airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue
marine service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the
component of auxiliary of any thereof.The property of such person
having a compensable service-connected disability exempt from taxation as
herein provided shall be determined as follows:
(a)If such
person's service-connected disability as determined by the United States
veterans administration or its successor is sixty per cent or less, the
property of such person exempt from taxation shall be determined by such
person's percentage of disability multiplied by the assessment of such person
in the amount of:
(i)One
thousand five hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not
exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(ii)One
thousand dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand dollars.
(iii)Five
hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand five hundred dollars.
(iv)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such person does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(v)No exemption if the total assessment of such
person exceeds five thousand dollars.
(b)If such
person's service-connected disability as determined by the United States
veterans administration or its successor is more than sixty per cent, the
property of such person exempt from taxation shall be in the amount of:
(i)One
thousand five hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not
exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(ii)One
thousand dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand dollars.
(iii)Five
hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand five hundred dollars.
(iv)Two
hundred fifty dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed
five thousand dollars.
(v)No
exemption if the total assessment of such person exceeds five thousand dollars.
(10)There
shall be further exempt from taxation the property of each honorably discharged
airman, soldier, sailor, United States marine, member of revenue marine
service, the coast guard, nurse corps or of any predecessor or of the component
of auxiliary of any thereof, resident of this state, where such person has a
nonservice-connected total and permanent disability, physical or mental, as so
certified by the United States veterans administration, or its successor, or
such other certification as provided by law, in the amount of:
(a)One
thousand five hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not
exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One
thousand dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand dollars.
(c)Five
hundred dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed four
thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two
hundred fifty dollars if the total assessment of such person does not exceed
five thousand dollars.
(e)No
exemption if the total assessment of such person exceeds five thousand dollars.
No such exemption shall
be made for such person unless he shall have served at least sixty days in the
military or naval service of the United States during time of war after World
War I and shall have been a resident of this state prior to September 1, 1945.
(11)(8)There shall be
further exempt from taxation the property of each widow, resident of this
state, in the amount of:
(a)One thousand five hundred dollars if the total
assessment of such widow does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)One thousand dollars if the total assessment
of such widow does not exceed four thousand dollars.
(c)Five hundred dollars if the total assessment
of such widow does not exceed four thousand five hundred dollars.
(d)Two hundred fifty dollars if the total
assessment of such widow does not exceed five thousand dollars.
(e)No exemption if the total assessment of such
widow exceeds five thousand dollars.
In order to qualify for this exemption, the income from all
sources of such widow, together with the income from all sources of all
children of such widow residing with the widow in her residence in the year
immediately preceding the year for which such widow applies for this exemption,
shall not exceed:
1.Seven thousand dollars if none of the widow's
children under the age of eighteen years resided with her in such widow's
residence; or
2.Ten thousand dollars if one or more of the
widow's children residing with her in such widow's residence was under the age
of eighteen years, or was totally and permanently disabled, physically or
mentally, as certified by competent medical authority as provided by law.
Such widow shall have resided with her last spouse in this
state at the time of the spouse's death if she was not a widow and a resident
of this state prior to January 1, 1969.
(12)(9)No property
shall be exempt which has been conveyed to evade taxation.The total
exemption from taxation granted to the property owned by a person who qualifies
for any exemption in accordance with the terms of subsections (8), (9), (10) or (11) subsection (8) shall not exceed
one thousand five hundred dollars.The provisions of this section
shall be selfexecuting.
(13)(10)All property in
the state not exempt under the laws of the United States or under this
constitution or exempt by law under the provisions of this section shall be
subject to taxation to be ascertained as provided by law. END_STATUTE
2.Article IX,
Constitution of Arizona, is proposed to be amended by adding section 2.4 as
follows if approved by the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE2.4.Exemption from taxation; primary residence of veteran with
a disability or surviving spouse; qualifications; definitions
Section2.4.A.A
portion of the assessed valuation of the primary residence of a qualifying
veteran with a serviceconnected disability of one hundred percent that
is owned by the veteran is exempt from taxation as provided by this section.
B.A
portion of the assessed valuation of the primary residence of a qualifying
veteran who is killed in action or who dies as a result of injury incurred
while on active duty in military service is exempt from taxation as provided by
this section if the residence is currently owned and occupied as the primary
residence solely of the veteran's unmarried surviving spouse and children.
C.If a
veteran with a disability or surviving spouse qualifies under this section, the
assessed valuation of the primary residence used for all purposes of section 18
of this article shall be reduced by twenty-five thousand
dollars.The legislature may provide by law to increase this amount
according to increases in a designated national inflation index.
D.The
exemption under this section is subject to the following conditions:
1.The
veteran must have a serviceconnected disability of one hundred percent,
as rated by the United States department of veterans affairs, that was
sustained while serving in the armed forces of the United States. Any question
regarding a claimed serviceconnected disability must be verified by the
United States department of veterans affairs or by a state veterans service
agency.
2.The
veteran with a disability must own or possess an equity interest in the primary
residence and occupy the primary residence as the person's primary dwelling
place. A surviving spouse must own or possess an equity interest in the same
primary residence owned by the veteran killed in action, or occupied by the
veteran, at the time of death.
3.Property
is not exempt under this section if it was conveyed to a veteran or spouse to
evade taxation.
E.An
exemption granted pursuant to this section is in lieu of any other real
property tax exemption that may apply to the property.
F.For the purposes of this section:
1.Property is considered to be the primary
residence of a veteran with a disability who is confined to a hospital or other
care facility if the property would be the veteran's primary residence were it
not for the veteran's confinement and if the property is not leased or rented
to another occupant other than a family member who resides at the property.
2.All
matters concerning qualifying status under this section shall be determined as
of July 1 of the valuation year.
3.Qualifying
property includes:
(a)Property that is owned by the
veteran with the veteran's spouse as a joint tenancy, a tenancy in common or
community property.
(b)Property that is owned by the
veteran or the veteran's spouse as separate property.
(c)Property that is owned with one
or more other persons to the extent of the interest owned by the veteran, the
veteran's spouse or both the veteran and the veteran's spouse.
(d)Property that is owned by the
veteran's unmarried surviving spouse with one or more other persons to the
extent of the interest owned by the surviving spouse.
(e)Property that is owned in trust
for the sole benefit of the veteran, of the veteran and the veteran's spouse or
of the veteran's unmarried surviving spouse.
(f)As much of the property of a corporation
as constitutes the principal place of residence of a veteran or a veteran's
unmarried surviving spouse if the veteran or the veteran's unmarried surviving
spouse is a shareholder of the corporation and the rights of shareholding
entitle one to occupy residential property, legal title to which is owned by
the corporation. To qualify under this subdivision, the corporate property
must be listed and assessed as residential property on the tax
roll.Notwithstanding any law or the articles of incorporation or
bylaws of a corporation described is this subdivision, any reduction of
property taxes paid by the corporation shall reflect an equal reduction in any
corporate charges to the person who, by reason of qualifying for the exemption,
made possible the reduction for the corporation.
4.Any
reference to the United States department of veterans affairs or the United
States secretary of veterans affairs includes any successor federal agency or
officer.
G.The
legislature shall establish procedures for establishing a person's eligibility
for, and otherwise implementing, the exemption under this section.
H.For the purposes of this section:
1."Armed forces" means all regular,
reserve and national guard components of the uniformed services of the United
States, including the United States army, navy, air force, marine corps and
coast guard, and includes civilian service that is authorized by federal law to
be considered active military duty for the purposes of laws administered by the
United States secretary of veterans affairs.
2."Primary
residence" means an owner-occupied dwelling, including a manufactured
home, that is owned by and used as the primary dwelling place of the veteran
with a disability or surviving spouse, including not more than four acres of
real property on which the residence is located. A primary residence may
consist of part of a multidwelling or multipurpose building and part of the
land on which the building is located.
3."Veteran"
means a resident of this state who has served in and been discharged or
released under honorable conditions from service in the armed forces of the
United States in time of war, or in time of peace in a campaign or expedition
for which a medal has been issued by Congress. END_STATUTE
3.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
XXI, Constitution of Arizona.

