







REFERENCE TITLE: photo radar prohibition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1010









Introduced by
Senators
  Smith, Lesko: Begay, Burges, Farnsworth D, Griffin, McGuire, Yee;
  Representatives Finchem, Kern, Mesnard





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

enacting and
ordering the submission to the people of a measure relating to photo
enforcement systems.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the Legislature, the following measure, relating to photo enforcement systems,
is enacted to become valid as a law if approved by the voters and on
proclamation of the Governor:
an act
amending sections 28601,
28627 and 281201, arizona revised statutes; repealing sections 281202,
281203, 281204, 281205 and 281206, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 28, chapter 3, article 21, Arizona Revised Statutes,
by adding a new section 281202; repealing section 281602, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to photo enforcement.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Commercial motor vehicle" means a
motor vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed, used or maintained
to transport passengers or property in the furtherance of a commercial
enterprise, that is a commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201
and that is not exempt from gross weight fees as prescribed in section 285432,
subsection B.
2."Controlled access highway" means a
highway, street or roadway to or from which owners or occupants of abutting
lands and other persons have no legal right of access except at such points
only and in the manner determined by the public authority that has jurisdiction
over the highway, street or roadway.
3."Crosswalk" means:
(a)That part of a roadway at an intersection
included within the prolongations or connections of the lateral lines of the
sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured from the curbs or, in
absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway.
(b)Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere that is distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or
other markings on the surface.
4."Escort vehicle" means a vehicle that
is required pursuant to rules adopted by the department to escort motor
vehicles or combinations of vehicles that require issuance of a permit pursuant
to article 18 or 19 of this chapter for operation on the highways of this
state.
5."Explosives" means any chemical compound,
mixture or device that is commonly used or intended for the purpose of
producing an explosion and that is defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations
part 173.
6."Flammable liquid" means any liquid
that has a flash point of less than one hundred degrees Fahrenheit and that is
defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations section 173.120.
7."Gross weight" means the weight of a
vehicle without a load plus the weight of any load on the vehicle.
8."Intersection" means the area
embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join one
another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within which
vehicles traveling on different highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.If a highway includes two roadways thirty or more feet
apart, each crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway is a separate intersection.If the intersecting highway also
includes two roadways thirty or more feet apart, each crossing of two roadways
of the highways is a separate intersection.
9."License" means any license,
temporary instruction permit or temporary license issued under the laws of this
state or any other state that pertain to the licensing of persons to operate
motor vehicles.
10."Low emission and energy efficient
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been certified by the United States
environmental protection agency administrator in accordance with 23 United
States Code section 166 or that is part of a federally approved pilot program.
11."Motorized wheelchair" means any
selfpropelled wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
12."Official traffic control device"
means any sign, signal, marking or device that is not inconsistent with this
chapter and that is placed or erected by authority of a public body or official
having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
13."Park", if prohibited, means the
standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
14."Photo
enforcement system" means a device substantially consisting of a radar
unit or sensor linked to a camera or other recording device that produces one
or more photographs, microphotographs, videotapes or digital or other recorded
images of a vehicle's license plate for the purpose of identifying violators of
articles 3 and 6 of this chapter.
15.14."Pneumatic
tire" means a tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
16.15."Pole
trailer" means a vehicle that is all of the following:
(a)Without motive power.
(b)Designed to be drawn by another vehicle and
attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole or by being boomed
or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle.
(c)Used ordinarily for transporting long or
irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or structural members capable
generally of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
17.16."Police
officer" means an officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make
arrests for violations of traffic rules or other offenses.
18.17."Private
road or driveway" means a way or place that is in private ownership and
that is used for vehicular travel by the owner and those persons who have
express or implied permission from the owner but not by other persons.
19.18."Railroad"
means a carrier of persons or property on cars operated on stationary rails.
20.19."Railroad
sign or signal" means a sign, signal or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
21.20."Railroad
train" means a steam engine or any electric or other motor that is with or
without cars coupled to the steam engine or electric or other motor and that is
operated on rails.
22.21."Roadway"
means that portion of a highway that is improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, roadway refers to any such roadway separately
but not to all such roadways collectively.
23.22."Safety
zone" means the area or space that is both:
(a)Officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians.
(b)Protected or either marked or indicated by
adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a
safety zone.
24.23."Sidewalk"
means that portion of a street that is between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines and that is intended for the
use of pedestrians.
25.24."Stop",
if required, means complete cessation from movement.
26.25."Stop,
stopping or standing", if prohibited, means any stopping or standing of an
occupied or unoccupied vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
27.26."Through
highway" means a highway or portion of a highway at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing and when stop signs are erected as provided in this
chapter.
28.27."Traffic"
means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using a highway for purposes of travel.
29.28."Traffic
control signal" means a device, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
30.29."Truck"
means a motor vehicle that is designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-627, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-627.Powers of local authorities
A.This chapter and chapters 4 and 5 of this title
do not prohibit a local authority, with respect to streets and highways under
its jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, from:
1.Regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.
2.Regulating traffic by means of police officers,
traffic control signals or volunteer posse organization members authorized by
the sheriff under section 11441 for the purpose of directing traffic
only.
3.Regulating or prohibiting processions or
assemblages on the highways.
4.Designating particular highways as oneway
highways and requiring that all vehicles on oneway highways be moved in
one specific direction.
5.Regulating the speed of vehicles in public
parks.
6.Designating any highway as a through highway
and requiring that all vehicles stop before entering or crossing the highway or
designating any intersection as a stop intersection and requiring all vehicles
to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection.
7.Restricting the use of highways as authorized
in section 281106.
8.Regulating the operation of bicycles and
requiring the registration and licensing of bicycles, including the requirement
of a registration fee.
9.Regulating or prohibiting the turning of
vehicles or specified types of vehicles at intersections.
10.Altering the prima facie speed limits as
authorized by this chapter.
11.Designating routes over streets and highways
for vehicles not exceeding one hundred two inches in width, exclusive of safety
equipment.
12.Adopting other traffic regulations that are
specifically authorized by this chapter or chapter 4 or 5 of this title.
13.Designating routes on certain streets and
highways for the purpose of allowing offhighway vehicle operators to
gain access to or from a designated offhighway recreation facility as
defined in section 281171, offhighway vehicle trail as defined in
section 281171 or offhighway vehicle special event as defined in
section 281171.
B.A local authority shall not erect or maintain a
stop sign or traffic control signal at any location that requires the traffic on
any state highway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting highway
unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the director.
C.An ordinance or regulation enacted under
subsection A, paragraph 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 or 10 of this section is not effective
until signs giving notice of the local traffic regulations are posted on or at
the entrances to the highway or part of the highway affected as is most
appropriate.
D.The definition of motor vehicle prescribed in
section 28101 does not prevent a local authority from adopting
ordinances that regulate or prohibit the operation of motorized skateboards,
except that a local authority shall not adopt an ordinance that requires
registration and licensing of motorized skateboards.For the purposes
of this subsection, "motorized skateboard" means a selfpropelled
device that has a motor, a deck on which a person may ride and at least two
tandem wheels in contact with the ground.
E.In addition to the appointment of peace
officers, a local authority may provide by ordinance for the appointment of:
1.Unarmed police aides or municipally approved
private contractors who are employed or contracted by the police department and
who are empowered to commence an action or proceeding before a court or judge
for a violation of the local authority's ordinances regulating the standing or
parking of vehicles. A municipally approved private contractor shall not
include a relative of an employee or of an elected official of the
municipality. The authority of the unarmed police aide or municipally approved
private contractor as authorized in this section is limited to the enforcement
of the ordinances of local authorities regulating the standing or parking of
vehicles. Pursuant to rules established by the supreme court, an unarmed
police aide appointed pursuant to this paragraph may serve any process
originating out of a municipal court in the municipality in which the unarmed
police aide is employed. Service of process under this paragraph shall only be
made during the hours the municipal court is open for the transaction of
business and only on court premises.This paragraph does not grant
to unarmed police aides or municipally approved private contractors other
powers or benefits to which peace officers of this state are entitled.
2.Traffic investigators who may:
(a)Investigate traffic accidents within the
jurisdiction of the local authority.
(b)Commence an action or proceeding before a
court or judge for any violation of a state statute or local ordinance relating
to traffic, if the violation is related to a traffic accident within the
jurisdiction of the local authority.
(c)Pursuant to rules established by the supreme
court, serve any process originating out of a municipal court in the
municipality in which the traffic investigator is employed. Service of process
under paragraph 1 of this subsection shall only be made during the hours the
municipal court is open for the transaction of business and only on court
premises.
F.A traffic investigator appointed pursuant to
this section shall:
1.Be unarmed at all times during the course of
the traffic investigator's duties.
2.Be an employee of the appointing local
authority.
3.File written reports as required pursuant to
section 28667.
G.Notwithstanding
subsection E of this section, an unarmed police aide, a municipally approved
private contractor or a traffic investigator shall not serve any process
resulting from a citation issued for a violation of article 3 or 6 of this
chapter or of a city or town ordinance for excessive speed or failure to obey a
traffic control device that is obtained using a photo enforcement system.
H.G.This
section does not grant other powers or benefits to traffic investigators to
which peace officers of this state are entitled.
I.H.Pursuant
to section 281092, a local authority shall provide reasonable access to
and from terminals and service facilities on highways under its jurisdiction.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-1201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1201.Definition of photo enforcement system
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires,
"photo enforcement system" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 28601 means a device substantially consisting of a radar unit or sensor
linked to a camera or other recording device that produces one or more
photographs, microphotographs, videotapes or digital or other recorded images of
a vehicle's license plate for the purpose of identifying violators of article 3
or 6 of this chapter or of a city or town ordinance for excessive speed or
failure to obey a traffic control device.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Sections 28-1202,
28-1203, 28-1204, 28-1205 and 281206, Arizona Revised
Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.5.Title 28, chapter 3, article 21,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 28-1202, to read:
START_STATUTE28-1202.Photo enforcement system; prohibition
A photo enforcement
system shall not be used by a local authority or any agency of this state to
identify violators of article 3 or 6 of this chapter or of a city or town
ordinance for excessive speed or failure to obey a traffic control device. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Section 28-1602,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.7.Legislative intent
Pursuant to section 41-1107, Arizona Revised Statutes, it is
the legislature's intent to:
1.Keep the enforcement of the laws in this state
in the hands of trained law enforcement officers who are authorized by the
people of this state to enforce the laws.
2.Protect the citizens of this state from the
abuses that accompany the outsourcing of law enforcement to private, for-profit
entities.
3.Ensure that the purpose of law enforcement
remains to serve and protect and not to generate revenue for governments.
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

