



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: independent expenditures; corporations;
  funding disclosure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2095









Introduced by
Representatives
  Clark, Andrade, Bolding, Mendez, Velasquez, Senator Quezada: Representatives
  Espinoza, Fernandez, Gabaldn, McCune Davis, Meyer, Rios





AN ACT

amending section
16-914.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to campaign CONTRIBUTIONS and
expense.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-914.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-914.02.Reporting independent expenditures of corporations,
limited liability companies and labor organizations; statement; disclaimer and
disclosure; civil action; civil penalty; violation; classification; definitions
A.Any corporation, limited liability company or
labor organization that makes cumulative independent expenditures in an attempt
to influence the outcome of a candidate election and in at least the following
amounts in an election cycle shall register and notify the appropriate filing
officer not later than one day after making that expenditure, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays and other legal holidays:
1.An aggregate of five thousand dollars or more in
one or more statewide races.
2.An aggregate of two thousand five hundred dollars
or more in one or more legislative races.
3.One thousand dollars or more in one or more
county, city, town or other local races if the one thousand dollars is
aggregated in races in a single county, city, town or other local jurisdiction.
B.The secretary of state is the filing officer for
registrations and notifications for independent expenditures in statewide and
legislative elections. City, town or county filing officers are the filing
officers for notifications in a city, town, county or other local election as
provided in section 16916.The corporation, limited liability
company or labor organization also shall notify the filing officer within the
same time limit prescribed in subsection A of this section of each additional
accumulation of expenditures that exceeds the threshold amount prescribed in
subsection A of this section but is not required to register again during that
election cycle after the initial registration. A corporation, limited
liability company or labor organization may register with the filing officer
and provide a notarized, sworn statement of authority in advance of the
expenditure in anticipation of making an independent expenditure. The
secretary of state shall provide for electronic filing for registrations and
notifications and shall provide for website access to the information for the
public.Filings at the secretary of state's office shall be in the
form prescribed by the secretary of state. Other filing officers shall
prescribe the format for filing registrations and notifications and shall
provide for public access to that information. On or after November 27, 2012
and at the request of the local election filing officer, the secretary of state
may provide for electronic filing pursuant to this section for local elections.
C.The registration shall include all of the
following:
1.The name and address of the corporation, limited
liability company or labor organization.
2.The name, title, electronic mail address and
telephone number of the person authorizing the independent expenditure.
D.Each notification shall include all of the
following:
1.The name and address of the corporation, limited
liability company or labor organization making the independent expenditure.
2.The amount of the expenditure and the name of the
vendor or other payee receiving the expenditure.
3.The name of the candidate and race in which the
expenditure was made and whether the expenditure was in support of or
opposition to the candidate.
4.The communication medium and description of what
was purchased with the expenditure.
5.The date of the expenditure.
E.If the corporation, limited liability company or
labor organization did not register and provide a notarized sworn statement in
advance of the expenditure as prescribed by this section, the corporation,
limited liability company or labor organization shall file with the secretary
of state or other appropriate filing officer within five days after an initial
threshold expenditure as prescribed in subsection A of this section a notarized
sworn statement that the person, agent or officer filing the registration and
notice had authority to make that expenditure on behalf of the corporation,
limited liability company or labor organization. Until the secretary of state
or other filing officer receives the notarized sworn statement, the filing
officer shall categorize the notification as unverified. If the secretary of
state or other filing officer does not receive the notarized sworn statement
within the required five day time frame, the notification shall be categorized
as both unverified and delinquent. The filing officer shall make reasonable
efforts to contact the entity that made the expenditure and remove the
notification from public view within a reasonable time if unable to verify that
the entity made the expenditure and all penalties prescribed in this section
apply.
F.Any literature or advertisement that is purchased
with monies from a corporation, limited liability company or labor organization
making an independent expenditure in an attempt to influence the outcome of a candidate an election shall disclose the name of the
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization making the
expenditure.Any disclosure statement required by this section shall
be printed clearly and legibly in a conspicuous manner.The disclosure statement shall include the words
"paid for by" followed by the name of the entity making the
expenditure and shall state that it is not authorized by any candidate or
candidate's campaign committee.The disclosure statement shall
include the four largest of its major funding sources as of the time the
literature or advertisement is printed, recorded or otherwise produced for
dissemination.If an outofstate contributor or group
of out-of-state contributors is a major funding source to the corporation,
limited liability company or labor organization, the disclosure statement shall
state that the contributor is an outof-state
contributor.Disclosure statements shall also comply with the
following:
1.If
the communication is broadcast on radio, the information disclosure shall be spoken at the end of the
communication.
2.If the
communication is printed material that is delivered or provided by hand or by
mail, the disclosure shall be printed clearly and legibly in a conspicuous
manner.
3.If
the communication is broadcast on a telecommunications system, the following apply:
(a)The information disclosure shall be both written and spoken at
the end of the communication, except that if the written disclosure statement is written displayed
for at least five seconds of a thirty second advertisement communications broadcast or ten seconds of a
sixty second advertisement communications broadcast, a
spoken disclosure statement is not required.
(b)If the communication is broadcast on a telecommunications
system, The written disclosure statement shall be printed in
letters that are displayed in a height
that is equal to or larger than four per cent percent of the vertical picture height. The literature or advertisement shall include the words
"paid for by" in the disclosure followed by the name of the entity
making the expenditure and shall also state that it is not authorized by any
candidate or candidate's campaign committee.
G.Subsection F of this section does not apply to
bumper stickers, pins, buttons, pens and similar small items on which the
statements required in subsection F of this section cannot be conveniently
printed or to a communication by an organization solely to its members.
H.Any corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization that fails to register, notify or disclose as required by this
section is liable in a civil action pursuant to section 16924 brought by
the attorney general, county attorney or city or town attorney, as appropriate,
for a civil penalty of up to three times the total amount of the expenditure.
I.Any person who makes a knowingly false filing
relating to an independent expenditure pursuant to this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor.
J.For violations that occur before November 27, 2012,
a reasonable cause determination for a violation of this section may only be
made by the secretary of state's office and not by any other filing officer.
On or after November 27, 2012, the local election jurisdiction and filing
officers may make their own reasonable cause determinations for violations of
this section or may elect to continue to have the office of the secretary of
state make those reasonable cause determinations on their behalf. A civil or
criminal enforcement action may not be filed until after the issuance of a
reasonable cause determination.
K.Any entity
corporation, limited liability company
or labor organization that makes an independent expenditure and
that is organized primarily for the
purpose of influencing an election and that is a combination of corporations,
limited liability companies or labor organizations or that is a corporation,
limited liability company or labor organization that accepts
donations or contributions shall file campaign
finance reports pursuant to section 16-915, subsection A, paragraph 2 with
the filing officer as a political
committee as otherwise provided by law.
L.For the purposes of this section, an expenditure
occurs on the date on which literature or advertisements are deposited at the
post office for mailing, submitted to a communications system for broadcast or
submitted to a newspaper or similar print medium for printing and, with respect
to an expenditure for signs, the date on which a sign is first posted.
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Independent expenditure" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 16901, except that it is made by a
corporation, a limited liability company or a labor organization and except as
prescribed in subsection L of this section.
2."Local election" means an election in a
county, city, town, school district or special district.

