



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: nunchaku prohibition; repeal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2042









Introduced by
Representative
  Finchem, Senator Burges: Representatives Borrelli, Lawrence





AN ACT

amending sections
13-3101, 133102 and 133110, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
prohibited weapons.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3101.Definitions
A.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Deadly weapon" means anything that is
designed for lethal use. The term includes a firearm.
2."Deface" means to remove, alter or
destroy the manufacturer's serial number.
3."Explosive" means any dynamite,
nitroglycerine, black powder, or other similar explosive material, including
plastic explosives. Explosive does not include ammunition or ammunition
components such as primers, percussion caps, smokeless powder, black powder and
black powder substitutes used for hand loading purposes.
4."Firearm" means any loaded or unloaded
handgun, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other weapon that will expel, is
designed to expel or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the
action of an explosive. Firearm does not include a firearm in permanently
inoperable condition.
5."Improvised explosive device" means a
device that incorporates explosives or destructive, lethal, noxious,
pyrotechnic or incendiary chemicals and that is designed to destroy, disfigure,
terrify or harass.
6."Occupied structure" means any
building, object, vehicle, watercraft, aircraft or place with sides and a floor
that is separately securable from any other structure attached to it, that is
used for lodging, business, transportation, recreation or storage and in which
one or more human beings either are or are likely to be present or so near as
to be in equivalent danger at the time the discharge of a firearm occurs.
Occupied structure includes any dwelling house, whether occupied, unoccupied or
vacant.
7."Prohibited possessor" means any
person:
(a)Who has been found to constitute a danger to
self or to others or to have a
persistent or acute disabilities
disability or grave disabilities disability pursuant to court order pursuant to
section 36540, and whose right to possess a firearm has not been
restored pursuant to section 13925.
(b)Who has been convicted within or without this
state of a felony or who has been adjudicated delinquent for a felony and whose
civil right to possess or carry a gun or firearm has not been restored.
(c)Who is at the time of possession serving a term
of imprisonment in any correctional or detention facility.
(d)Who is at the time of possession serving a term
of probation pursuant to a conviction for a domestic violence offense as
defined in section 133601 or a felony offense, parole, community
supervision, work furlough, home arrest or release on any other basis or who is
serving a term of probation or parole pursuant to the interstate compact under
title 31, chapter 3, article 4.1.
(e)Who is an undocumented alien or a nonimmigrant
alien traveling with or without documentation in this state for business or
pleasure or who is studying in this state and who maintains a foreign residence
abroad. This subdivision does not apply to:
(i)Nonimmigrant aliens who possess a valid hunting
license or permit that is lawfully issued by a state in the United States.
(ii)Nonimmigrant aliens who enter the United States
to participate in a competitive target shooting event or to display firearms at
a sports or hunting trade show that is sponsored by a national, state or local
firearms trade organization devoted to the competitive use or other sporting
use of firearms.
(iii)Certain diplomats.
(iv)Officials of foreign governments or
distinguished foreign visitors who are designated by the United States department
of state.
(v)Persons who have received a waiver from the
United States attorney general.
(f)Who has been found incompetent pursuant to rule
11, Arizona rules of criminal procedure, and who subsequently has not been
found competent.
(g)Who is found guilty except insane.
8."Prohibited weapon":
(a)Includes the following:
(i)An item that is a bomb, grenade, rocket having a
propellant charge of more than four ounces or mine and that is explosive,
incendiary or poison gas.
(ii)A device that is designed, made or adapted to
muffle the report of a firearm.
(iii)A firearm that is capable of shooting more
than one shot automatically, without manual reloading, by a single function of
the trigger.
(iv)A rifle with a barrel length of less than sixteen
inches, or shotgun with a barrel length of less than eighteen inches, or any
firearm that is made from a rifle or shotgun and that, as modified, has an
overall length of less than twentysix inches.
(v)An
instrument, including a nunchaku, that consists of two or more sticks, clubs,
bars or rods to be used as handles, connected by a rope, cord, wire or chain,
in the design of a weapon used in connection with the practice of a system of
selfdefense.
(vi)(v)A breakable container that
contains a flammable liquid with a flash point of one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit or less and that has a wick or similar device capable of being
ignited.
(vii)(vi)A chemical or combination of
chemicals, compounds or materials, including dry ice, that is possessed or
manufactured for the purpose of generating a gas to cause a mechanical failure,
rupture or bursting or an explosion or detonation of the chemical or
combination of chemicals, compounds or materials.
(viii)(vii)An
improvised explosive device.
(ix)(viii)Any
combination of parts or materials that is designed and intended for use in
making or converting a device into an item set forth in item (i), (vi) or (viii) (v) or
(vii) of
this subdivision.
(b)Does not include:
(i)Any fireworks that are imported, distributed or
used in compliance with state laws or local ordinances.
(ii)Any propellant, propellant actuated devices or
propellant actuated industrial tools that are manufactured, imported or
distributed for their intended purposes.
(iii)A device that is commercially manufactured
primarily for the purpose of illumination.
9."Trafficking" means to sell, transfer,
distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of a weapon or explosive to another
person, or to buy, receive, possess or obtain control of a weapon or explosive,
with the intent to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of
the weapon or explosive to another person.
B.The items set forth in subsection A, paragraph 8,
subdivision (a), items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section do not include
any firearms or devices that are registered in the national firearms registry
and transfer records of the United States treasury department or any firearm
that has been classified as a curio or relic by the United States treasury
department. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-3102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3102.Misconduct involving weapons; defenses; classification;
definitions
A.A person commits misconduct involving weapons by
knowingly:
1.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife
concealed on his person or within his immediate control in or on a means of
transportation:
(a)In the furtherance of a serious offense as
defined in section 13706, a violent crime as defined in section 13901.03
or any other felony offense; or
(b)When contacted by a law enforcement officer and
failing to accurately answer the officer if the officer asks whether the person
is carrying a concealed deadly weapon; or
2.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife
concealed on his person or concealed within his immediate control in or on a
means of transportation if the person is under twenty-one years of age; or
3.Manufacturing, possessing, transporting, selling
or transferring a prohibited weapon, except that if the violation involves dry
ice, a person commits misconduct involving weapons by knowingly possessing the
dry ice with the intent to cause injury to or death of another person or to
cause damage to the property of another person; or
4.Possessing a
deadly weapon or prohibited weapon if such person is a prohibited possessor; or
5.Selling or
transferring a deadly weapon to a prohibited possessor; or
6.Defacing a deadly weapon; or
7.Possessing a defaced deadly weapon knowing the
deadly weapon was defaced; or
8.Using or possessing a deadly weapon during the
commission of any felony offense included in chapter 34 of this title; or
9.Discharging a firearm at an occupied structure in
order to assist, promote or further the interests of a criminal street gang, a
criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise; or
10.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
any public establishment or attending any public event and carrying a deadly
weapon on his person after a reasonable request by the operator of the
establishment or the sponsor of the event or the sponsor's agent to remove his
weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event for temporary and secure storage of the weapon pursuant to section 133102.01; or
11.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
an election polling place on the day of any election carrying a deadly weapon;
or
12.Possessing a
deadly weapon on school grounds; or
13.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
a nuclear or hydroelectric generating station carrying a deadly weapon on his
person or within the immediate control of any person; or
14.Supplying, selling or giving possession or
control of a firearm to another person if the person knows or has reason to
know that the other person would use the firearm in the commission of any
felony; or
15.Using, possessing or exercising control over a
deadly weapon in furtherance of any act of terrorism as defined in section 132301
or possessing or exercising control over a deadly weapon knowing or having
reason to know that it will be used to facilitate any act of terrorism as
defined in section 132301; or
16.Trafficking in weapons or explosives for
financial gain in order to assist, promote or further the interests of a
criminal street gang, a criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise.
B.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section shall
not apply to:
1.A person in his dwelling, on his business
premises or on real property owned or leased by that person or that person's
parent, grandparent or legal guardian.
2.A member of the sheriff's volunteer posse or
reserve organization who has received and passed firearms training that is
approved by the Arizona peace officer standards and training board and who is
authorized by the sheriff to carry a concealed weapon pursuant to section 11441.
3.A firearm that is
carried in:
(a)A manner where
any portion of the firearm or holster in which the firearm is carried is
visible.
(b)A holster that is wholly or partially visible.
(c)A scabbard or case designed for carrying weapons
that is wholly or partially visible.
(d)Luggage.
(e)A case, holster, scabbard, pack or luggage that
is carried within a means of transportation or within a storage compartment,
map pocket, trunk or glove compartment of a means of transportation.
C.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12 and
13 of this section shall not apply to:
1.A peace officer or any person summoned by any
peace officer to assist and while actually assisting in the performance of
official duties; or
2.A member of the military forces of the United
States or of any state of the United States in the performance of official
duties; or
3.A warden, deputy warden, community correctional
officer, detention officer, special investigator or correctional officer of the
state department of corrections or the department of juvenile corrections; or
4.A person specifically licensed, authorized or
permitted pursuant to a statute of this state or of the United States.
D.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section does
not apply to an elected or appointed judicial officer in the court facility
where the judicial officer works if the judicial officer has demonstrated
competence with a firearm as prescribed in section 133112, subsection N,
except that the judicial officer shall comply with any rule or policy adopted
by the presiding judge of the superior court while in the court
facility.For the purposes of this subsection, appointed judicial
officer does not include a hearing officer or a judicial officer pro tempore that who is not a fulltime officer.
E.Subsection A, paragraphs 3 and 7 of this section
shall not apply to:
1.The possessing, transporting, selling or
transferring of weapons by a museum as a part of its collection or an
educational institution for educational purposes or by an authorized employee
of such museum or institution, if:
(a)Such museum or institution is operated by the
United States or this state or a political subdivision of this state, or by an
organization described in 26 United States Code section 170(c) as a recipient
of a charitable contribution; and
(b)Reasonable precautions are taken with respect to
theft or misuse of such material.
2.The regular and lawful transporting as
merchandise; or
3.Acquisition by a person by operation of law such
as by gift, devise or descent or in a fiduciary capacity as a recipient of the
property or former property of an insolvent, incapacitated or deceased person.
F.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall
not apply to the merchandise of an authorized manufacturer of or dealer in
prohibited weapons, when such material is intended to be manufactured,
possessed, transported, sold or transferred solely for or to a dealer, a
regularly constituted or appointed state, county or municipal police department
or police officer, a detention facility, the military service of this or
another state or the United States, a museum or educational institution or a
person specifically licensed or permitted pursuant to federal or state law.
G.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section shall
not apply to shooting ranges or shooting events, hunting areas or similar
locations or activities.
H.Subsection
A, paragraph 3 of this section shall not apply to a weapon described in section
133101, subsection A, paragraph 8, subdivision (a), item (v), if such
weapon is possessed for the purposes of preparing for, conducting or
participating in lawful exhibitions, demonstrations, contests or athletic
events involving the use of such weapon.Subsection A,
paragraph 12 of this section shall not apply to a weapon if such weapon is
possessed for the purposes of preparing for, conducting or participating in
hunter or firearm safety courses.
I.Subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section shall
not apply to the possession of a:
1.Firearm that is not loaded and that is carried
within a means of transportation under the control of an adult provided that if
the adult leaves the means of transportation the firearm shall not be visible
from the outside of the means of transportation and the means of transportation
shall be locked.
2.Firearm for use on the school grounds in a program
approved by a school.
3.Firearm by a person who possesses a certificate
of firearms proficiency pursuant to section 133112, subsection T and who
is authorized to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to the law enforcement
officers safety act of 2004 (P.L. 108277; 118 Stat. 865; 18 United
States Code sections 926B and 926C).
J.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7 and 13 of this
section shall not apply to commercial nuclear generating station armed nuclear
security guards during the performance of official duties or during any
security training exercises sponsored by the commercial nuclear generating
station or local, state or federal authorities.
K.The operator of the establishment or the sponsor
of the event or the employee of the operator or sponsor or the agent of the
sponsor, including a public entity or public employee, is not liable for acts
or omissions pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section unless the
operator, sponsor, employee or agent intended to cause injury or was grossly
negligent.
L.If a law enforcement officer contacts a person
who is in possession of a firearm, the law enforcement officer may take
temporary custody of the firearm for the duration of that contact.
M.Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A,
paragraph 15 of this section is a class 2 felony.Misconduct
involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 9, 14 or 16 of this section is
a class 3 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 3,
4, 8 or 13 of this section is a class 4 felony. Misconduct involving weapons
under subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section is a class 1 misdemeanor
unless the violation occurs in connection with conduct that violates section 132308,
subsection A, paragraph 5, section 132312, subsection C, section 133409
or section 133411, in which case the offense is a class 6 felony.
Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (a)
of this section or subsection A, paragraph 5, 6 or 7 of this section is a class
6 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 1,
subdivision (b) of this section or subsection A, paragraph 10 or 11 of this
section is a class 1 misdemeanor. Misconduct involving weapons under
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is a class 3 misdemeanor.
N.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Contacted by
a law enforcement officer" means a lawful traffic or criminal
investigation, arrest or detention or an investigatory stop by a law
enforcement officer that is based on reasonable suspicion that an offense has
been or is about to be committed.
2."Public establishment" means a
structure, vehicle or craft that is owned, leased or operated by this state or
a political subdivision of this state.
3."Public event" means a specifically
named or sponsored event of limited duration that is either conducted by a
public entity or conducted by a private entity with a permit or license granted
by a public entity. Public event does not include an unsponsored gathering of
people in a public place.
4."School" means a public or nonpublic
kindergarten program, common school or high school.
5."School grounds" means in, or on the
grounds of, a school. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 13-3110, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3110.Misconduct involving simulated explosive devices;
classification; definition
A.A person commits misconduct involving simulated
explosive devices by intentionally giving or sending to another person or
placing in a private or public place a simulated explosive device with the
intent to terrify, intimidate, threaten or harass.
B.The placing or sending of a simulated explosive
device without written notice attached to the device in a conspicuous place
that the device has been rendered inert and is possessed for the purpose of
curio or relic collection, display or other similar purpose is prima facie
evidence of intent to terrify, intimidate, threaten or harass.
C.Misconduct involving simulated explosive devices
is a class 5 felony.
D.For the purposes of this section, "simulated
explosive device" means a simulation of a prohibited weapon described in
section 133101, subsection A, paragraph 8, subdivision (a), item (i), (vi) or (viii) (v) or
(vii) that
a reasonable person would believe is such a prohibited weapon. END_STATUTE

