



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: empowerment scholarships; pupil funding
  amount







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2064









Introduced by
Representative
  Coleman





AN ACT

amending section
152402, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to Arizona empowerment
scholarship accounts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-2402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2402.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts; funds
A.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts are
established to provide options for the education of students in this state.
B.To enroll a qualified student for an empowerment
scholarship account, the parent of the qualified student must sign an agreement
to do all of the following:
1.Use a portion of the empowerment scholarship
account monies allocated each quarter to provide an education for the qualified
student in at least the subjects of reading, grammar, mathematics, social
studies and science, unless the empowerment scholarship account is allocated
monies according to a transfer schedule other than quarterly transfers pursuant
to section 152403, subsection F.
2.Not enroll the qualified student in a school
district or charter school and release the school district from all obligations
to educate the qualified student. This paragraph does not relieve the school
district or charter school that the qualified student previously attended from
the obligation to conduct an evaluation pursuant to section 15766.
3.Not accept a scholarship from a school tuition
organization pursuant to title 43 concurrently with an empowerment scholarship
account for the qualified student in the same year a parent signs the agreement
pursuant to this section.
4.Use the money deposited in the qualified
student's Arizona empowerment scholarship account only for the following
expenses of the qualified student:
(a)Tuition or fees at a qualified school.
(b)Textbooks required by a qualified school.
(c)Educational therapies or services from a
licensed or accredited practitioner or provider, including licensed or
accredited paraprofessionals or educational aides, if the qualified student
meets any of the criteria specified in section 152401, paragraph 6,
subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) as determined by a school district or
by an independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I.
(d)Tutoring or teaching services provided by an
individual or facility accredited by a state, regional or national accrediting
organization.
(e)Curriculum curricula.
(f)Tuition or fees for a nonpublic online learning
program.
(g)Fees for a nationally standardized
norm-referenced achievement test, an advanced placement examination or any
exams related to college or university admission.
(h)Contributions to a Coverdell education savings
account established pursuant to 26 United States Code section 530 for the
benefit of the qualified student, except that money used for elementary or
secondary education expenses must be for expenses otherwise allowed under this
section.
(i)Tuition or fees at an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(j)Textbooks required by an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(k)Fees for management of the empowerment
scholarship account by firms selected by the treasurer.
(l)Services provided by a public school, including
individual classes and extracurricular programs.
(m)Insurance or surety bond payments as required by
the department of education.
5.Not file an affidavit of intent to homeschool
pursuant to section 15802, subsection B, paragraph 2 or 3.
6.Not use monies deposited in the qualified student's
account for any of the following:
(a)Computer hardware or other technological
devices.
(b)Transportation of the pupil.
(c)Consumable educational supplies, including
paper, pens or markers.
C.In exchange for the parent's agreement pursuant
to subsection B of this section, the department shall transfer from the monies
that would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's prior school district, or if
the child is currently eligible to attend kindergarten, the monies that the
department determines would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's expected
school district of attendance, to the treasurer for deposit into an Arizona
empowerment scholarship account an amount that is equivalent to ninety per cent percent of the sum of the base support level and additional assistance
prescribed in sections 15185 and
15943 funding for
that particular student that would have
been received by the school district where that student resides
if that student were attending a charter
school operated by that school district.
The department may retain up to five per
cent percent of
the sum of the base support level and
additional assistance prescribed in sections 15185 and 15943
funding amount for each
student with an empowerment scholarship account for deposit in the department
of education empowerment scholarship account fund established in subsection D
of this section, out of which the department shall transfer one per cent percent of the sum of
the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in sections 15185
and 15943 funding
amount for each student with an empowerment scholarship account
to the state treasurer for deposit in the state treasurer empowerment
scholarship account fund established in subsection E of this section.
D.The department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund is established consisting of monies retained by the
department pursuant to subsection C of this section. The department shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation. Monies in the fund shall be used for the department's costs in
administering empowerment scholarship accounts under this chapter. Monies in
the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. If the number of empowerment scholarship accounts
significantly increases after fiscal year 20122013, the department may
request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any subsequent
fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
E.The state treasurer empowerment scholarship
account fund is established consisting of monies transferred by the department
to the state treasurer pursuant to subsection C of this section. The state
treasurer shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for the
state treasurer's costs in administering the empowerment scholarship accounts
under this chapter.If the number of empowerment scholarship
accounts significantly increases after fiscal year 20132014, the state
treasurer may request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any
subsequent fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
F.A parent must renew the qualified student's
empowerment scholarship account on an annual basis.Notwithstanding
any changes to the student's multidisciplinary evaluation team plan, a student
who has previously qualified for an empowerment scholarship account shall
remain eligible to apply for renewal until the student finishes high school.
G.A signed agreement under this section constitutes
school attendance required by section 15802.
H.A qualified school or a provider of services
purchased pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 4 of this section may not share,
refund or rebate any Arizona empowerment scholarship account monies with the
parent or qualified student in any manner.
I.On the qualified student's graduation from a
postsecondary institution or after any period of four consecutive years after
high school graduation in which the student is not enrolled in an eligible
postsecondary institution, the qualified student's Arizona empowerment scholarship
account shall be closed and any remaining funds shall be returned to the state.
J.Monies received pursuant to this article do not
constitute taxable income to the parent of the qualified student. END_STATUTE

