



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: campaign finance; corporate recipients;
  registration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2098









Introduced by
Representatives
  Clark, Bolding, Mendez, Steele, Senator Quezada: Representatives Andrade,
  Fernandez, Gabaldn, Rios





AN ACT

amending title
16, chapter 6, article 1, arizona revised statutes, by adding section
16-914.03; amending sections 16-919 and 16-920, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to campaign CONTRIBUTIONS and expenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 16, chapter 6, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 16-914.03, to read:
START_STATUTE16-914.03.Reporting contributions made by a
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization; statement; civil
penalty; violation; classification; definition
A.Any
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization that makes a
contribution in at least the following amounts to a political committee or to
another corporation, limited liability company or labor organization in an
attempt to influence the outcome of a candidate election shall register and
notify the appropriate filing officer not later than one day after making that
contribution, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and other legal holidays:
1.An
aggregate of five thousand dollars or more in one or more statewide races.
2.An
aggregate of two thousand five hundred dollars or more in one or more
legislative races.
3.One
thousand dollars or more in one or more county, city, town or other local races
if the one thousand dollars is aggregated in races in a single county, city,
town or other local jurisdiction.
B.The
secretary of state is the filing officer for registrations and notifications
for contributions in statewide and legislative elections. City, town or county
filing officers are the filing officers for notifications in a city, town,
county or other local election as provided in section 16916.The
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization also shall notify
the filing officer within the same time limit prescribed in subsection A of
this section of each additional accumulation of contributions that exceeds the
threshold amount prescribed in subsection A of this section but is not required
to register again during that election cycle after the initial registration.
The secretary of state shall provide for electronic filing for registrations
and notifications and shall provide for website access to the information for
the public.Filings at the secretary of state's office shall be in
the form prescribed by the secretary of state. Other filing officers shall
prescribe the format for filing registrations and notifications and shall
provide for public access to that information.
C.The
registration shall include all of the following:
1.The
name and address of the corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization.
2.The
name, title, e-mail address and telephone number of the person authorizing the
contribution.
D.Each
notification shall include all of the following:
1.The
name and address of the corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization making the contribution.
2.The
amount of the contribution and the name of the political committee or other
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization receiving the
contribution.
3.The
name of the candidate and race for which the contribution was made and whether
the contribution was in support of or opposition to the candidate.
4.The
date of the contribution.
E.The
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization shall file with
the secretary of state or other appropriate filing officer within five days
after an initial threshold contribution as prescribed in subsection A of this
section a notarized sworn statement that the person, agent or officer filing
the registration and notice had authority to make that contribution on behalf
of the corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization.Until the secretary of state or other filing officer
receives the notarized sworn statement, the filing officer shall categorize the
notification as unverified. If the secretary of state or other filing officer
does not receive the notarized sworn statement within the required five-day
time frame, the notification shall be categorized as both unverified and
delinquent. The filing officer shall make reasonable efforts to contact the
entity that made the contribution and remove the notification from public view
within a reasonable time if unable to verify that the entity made the
contribution and all penalties prescribed in this section apply.
F.Any
corporation, limited liability company or labor organization that fails to
register, notify or disclose as required by this section is liable in a civil
action pursuant to section 16924 brought by the attorney general, county
attorney or city or town attorney, as appropriate, for a civil penalty of up to
three times the total amount of the contributions.
G.Any
person who makes a knowingly false filing relating to a contribution pursuant
to this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A civil or criminal
enforcement action may not be filed until after the filing officer issues a
reasonable cause determination.
H.For
the purposes of this section, "Local election" means an election in a
county, city, town, school district or special district. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-919, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-919.Prohibition of contributions by
corporations, limited liability companies or labor organizations; exemption;
violation; classification; definitions
A.Except as provided in section
sections 16-914.02 and 16-914.03, it is
unlawful for a corporation or a limited liability company to make an
expenditure or any contribution of money or anything of value for the purpose
of influencing an election, and it is unlawful for the designating individual
who formed an exploratory committee, an exploratory committee, a candidate or a
candidate's campaign committee to accept any contribution of money or anything
of value from a corporation or a limited liability company for the purpose of
influencing an election.This subsection does not apply to political
committees that are incorporated pursuant to title 10, chapters 24 through 40
and political committees that are organized as limited liability companies.
B.Except as provided in section
sections 16914.02
and 16914.03,
it is unlawful for a labor organization to make an expenditure or any
contribution of money or anything of value for the purpose of influencing an
election.
C.Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this
section, a corporation, limited liability company or labor organization may
contribute to an independent expenditure committee.
D.A corporation, limited liability company or labor
organization that violates this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
E.The person through whom the violation is effected
is guilty of a class 6 felony.
F.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a
political committee that is incorporated only for the purposes of liability
limitation may make contributions for the purpose of influencing an election.
Notwithstanding the corporate status of a political committee, the chairman and
treasurer of an incorporated political committee remain personally responsible
for carrying out their respective duties under this article.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Election" means any election to any
political office, any election to any political convention or caucus or any
primary election held for the purpose of selecting any candidate, political
committee or other person for any political office, convention or caucus.
2."Employee" includes any employee, is
not limited to the employees of a particular employer and includes any
individual whose work has ceased as a consequence of, or in connection with,
any current labor dispute or because of any unfair labor practice.
3."Employer" includes any person acting
as an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly.
4."Labor organization" means any
organization of any kind or any agency or employee representation committee or
plan in which employees participate and that exists for the purpose in whole or
in part of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages,
rates of pay, hours of employment or conditions of work.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 16-920, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-920.Permitted expenditures by corporations
and labor organizations; federal law; definitions
A.Expenditures for the following purposes are not
political contributions prohibited by law:
1.Communications by a corporation to its
stockholders and executive or administrative personnel and their families, or
by a labor organization to its members and their families, on any subject.
2.Nonpartisan registration and getoutthevote
campaigns by a corporation aimed at its stockholders and executive or administrative
personnel and their families or by a labor organization aimed at its members
and their families.
3.The establishment, administration and
solicitation of voluntary contributions to a separate segregated fund to be
used for political purposes by a corporation, labor organization, membership
organization, trade association, cooperative or corporation without capital
stock.
4.The establishment, administration and
solicitation of voluntary contributions from employees of a corporation or
limited liability company, including contributions made by payroll deduction,
deposit or transfer or other similar method, and that are made directly to a
separate segregated fund that is used for political purposes by a trade
association of which the employing corporation or limited liability company is
a member. Contributions received under this subsection shall be reported
pursuant to section 16915, subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (a) or
subsection E.
5.Contributions for use to support or oppose an
initiative or referendum measure or amendment to the constitution.
6.Independent expenditures and contributions to
independent expenditure committees made pursuant to section 16914.02.
7.Contributions
made pursuant to section 16-914.03.
B.A membership organization, trade association,
cooperative or corporation without capital stock may engage in the activities
permitted in subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section if such
activities are directed primarily toward its members, stockholders or members
of its members, its and its members' executive or administrative personnel and
their families.
C.A person may rely on the federal election
commission's rules, policy statements, interpretive rules and other guidance
adopted as of January 1, 2013 in interpreting and applying 2 52 United States Code section 441b(B)(2)
30118(b)(2) in interpreting
subsection A, paragraphs 1 through 4 of this section.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Executive or administrative personnel"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 16921.
2."Labor organization" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 16919.END_STATUTE

