



PREFILED JAN 08 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: firearms; university; college; campus







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2072









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Barton, Campbell, Cobb, Finchem, Montenegro, Petersen, Townsend:
  Boyer, Fann, Kern, Leach, Livingston, Mitchell, Shope, Senators Barto,
  Farnsworth D, Lesko





AN ACT

amending sections
13-2911 and 13-3102, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to firearms.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2911, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2911.Interference with or disruption of an educational
institution; violation; classification; definitions
A.A person commits interference with or disruption
of an educational institution by doing any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly
interfering with or disrupting the normal operations of an educational
institution by either:
(a)Threatening to cause physical injury to any
employee or student of an educational institution or any person on the property
of an educational institution.
(b)Threatening to cause damage to any educational
institution, the property of any educational institution or the property of any
employee or student of an educational institution.
2.Intentionally or knowingly entering or remaining
on the property of any educational institution for the purpose of interfering
with the lawful use of the property or in any manner as to deny or interfere
with the lawful use of the property by others.
3.Intentionally or knowingly refusing to obey a
lawful order given pursuant to subsection C of this section.
B.To constitute a violation of this section, the
acts that are prohibited by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section are not
required to be directed at a specific individual, a specific educational
institution or any specific property of an educational institution.
C.The chief administrative officer of an
educational institution or an officer or employee designated by the chief
administrative officer to maintain order may order a person to leave the
property of the educational institution if the officer or employee has
reasonable grounds to believe either that:
1.Any person or persons are committing any act that
interferes with or disrupts the lawful use of the property by others at the
educational institution.
2.Any person has entered on the property of an
educational institution for the purpose of committing any act that interferes
with or disrupts the lawful use of the property by others at the educational
institution.
D.The appropriate governing board of every
educational institution shall adopt rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6 for
the maintenance of public order on all property of any educational institution
under its jurisdiction that is used for educational purposes and shall provide
a program for the enforcement of its rules. The rules shall govern the conduct
of students, faculty and other staff and all members of the public while on the
property of the educational institution. Penalties for violations of the rules
shall be clearly set forth and enforced.Penalties shall include
provisions for the ejection of a violator from the property and, in the case of
a student, faculty member or other staff violator, the violator's suspension or
expulsion or any other appropriate disciplinary action.A governing
board shall amend its rules as necessary to ensure the maintenance of public
order. Any deadly weapon, dangerous instrument or explosive that is used,
displayed or possessed by a person in violation of a rule adopted pursuant to
this subsection shall be forfeited and sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of
pursuant to chapter 39 of this title. This subsection does not do either of
the following:
1.Preclude school districts from conducting
approved gun safety programs on school campuses.
2.Apply to private universities, colleges, high
schools or common schools or other private educational institutions.
E.An educational institution is not eligible to
receive any state aid or assistance unless rules are adopted in accordance with
this section.
F.This section does not prevent or limit the
authority of the governing board of any educational institution to discharge
any employee or expel, suspend or otherwise punish any student for any
violation of its rules, even though the violation is unlawful under this
chapter or is otherwise an offense.
G.This section may be enforced by any peace officer
in this state wherever and whenever a violation occurs.
H.Notwithstanding
subsection D of this section, the chief administrative officer or the chief
administrative officer's designee or the governing board of a public
university, college or community college may not adopt or enforce any policy or
rule that restricts or prohibits a faculty member or registered student from
carrying or transporting a firearm on the property of the public university,
college or community college if the faculty member or registered student
possesses a valid permit issued pursuant to section 13-3112 and is registered
with the institution's administration indicating that the faculty member or
registered student is armed and possesses a valid permit that is issued
pursuant to section 133112. the chief administrative officer or the
chief administrative officer's designee or the governing board of the public
university, college or community college shall adopt and enforce guidelines for
the use of a firearm in an active shooter incident. the guidelines may be
modeled after the federal bureau of investigation or the united states
department of homeland security protocols or guidelines for an active shooter
incident.
H.I.Restitution under
sections 8341, 8345 and 13603 applies to any financial
loss that is suffered by a person or educational institution as a result of a
violation of this section.
I.J.Interference with
or disruption of an educational institution pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
1 of this section is a class 6 felony. Interference with or disruption of an
educational institution pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 or 3 of this
section is a class 1 misdemeanor. 
J.K.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Educational institution" means, except
as otherwise provided, any university, college, community college, high school
or common school in this state.
2."Governing board" means the body,
whether appointed or elected, that has responsibility for the maintenance and
government of an educational institution.
3."Interference with or disruption of"
includes any act that might reasonably lead to the evacuation or closure of any
property of the educational institution or the postponement, cancellation or
suspension of any class or other school activity. For the purposes of this
paragraph, an actual evacuation, closure, postponement, cancellation or
suspension is not required for the act to be considered an interference or
disruption.
4."Property of an educational
institution" means all land, buildings and other facilities that are
owned, operated or controlled by the governing board of an educational
institution and that are devoted to educational purposes. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-3102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3102.Misconduct involving weapons; defenses; classification;
definitions
A.A person commits misconduct involving weapons by
knowingly:
1.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife
concealed on his person or within his immediate control in or on a means of
transportation:
(a)In the furtherance of a serious offense as
defined in section 13706, a violent crime as defined in section 13901.03
or any other felony offense; or
(b)When contacted by a law enforcement officer and
failing to accurately answer the officer if the officer asks whether the person
is carrying a concealed deadly weapon; or
2.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife
concealed on his person or concealed within his immediate control in or on a
means of transportation if the person is under twenty-one years of age; or
3.Manufacturing, possessing, transporting, selling
or transferring a prohibited weapon, except that if the violation involves dry
ice, a person commits misconduct involving weapons by knowingly possessing the
dry ice with the intent to cause injury to or death of another person or to
cause damage to the property of another person; or
4.Possessing a deadly weapon or prohibited weapon
if such person is a prohibited possessor; or
5.Selling or transferring a deadly weapon to a
prohibited possessor; or
6.Defacing a deadly weapon; or
7.Possessing a defaced deadly weapon knowing the
deadly weapon was defaced; or
8.Using or possessing a deadly weapon during the
commission of any felony offense included in chapter 34 of this title; or
9.Discharging a firearm at an occupied structure in
order to assist, promote or further the interests of a criminal street gang, a
criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise; or
10.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
any public establishment or attending any public event and carrying a deadly
weapon on his person after a reasonable request by the operator of the
establishment or the sponsor of the event or the sponsor's agent to remove his
weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event for temporary and secure storage of the weapon pursuant to section 133102.01; or
11.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
an election polling place on the day of any election carrying a deadly weapon;
or
12.Possessing a deadly weapon on school grounds; or
13.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
a nuclear or hydroelectric generating station carrying a deadly weapon on his
person or within the immediate control of any person; or
14.Supplying, selling or giving possession or
control of a firearm to another person if the person knows or has reason to
know that the other person would use the firearm in the commission of any
felony; or
15.Using, possessing or exercising control over a
deadly weapon in furtherance of any act of terrorism as defined in section 132301
or possessing or exercising control over a deadly weapon knowing or having
reason to know that it will be used to facilitate any act of terrorism as
defined in section 132301; or
16.Trafficking in weapons or explosives for
financial gain in order to assist, promote or further the interests of a
criminal street gang, a criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise.
B.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section shall
not apply to:
1.A person in his dwelling, on his business premises
or on real property owned or leased by that person or that person's parent,
grandparent or legal guardian.
2.A member of the sheriff's volunteer posse or
reserve organization who has received and passed firearms training that is
approved by the Arizona peace officer standards and training board and who is
authorized by the sheriff to carry a concealed weapon pursuant to section 11441.
3.A firearm that is carried in:
(a)A manner where any portion of the firearm or
holster in which the firearm is carried is visible.
(b)A holster that is wholly or partially visible.
(c)A scabbard or case designed for carrying weapons
that is wholly or partially visible.
(d)Luggage.
(e)A case, holster, scabbard, pack or luggage that
is carried within a means of transportation or within a storage compartment,
map pocket, trunk or glove compartment of a means of transportation.
C.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12 and
13 of this section shall not apply to:
1.A peace officer or any person summoned by any
peace officer to assist and while actually assisting in the performance of
official duties; or
2.A member of the military forces of the United
States or of any state of the United States in the performance of official
duties; or
3.A warden, deputy warden, community correctional
officer, detention officer, special investigator or correctional officer of the
state department of corrections or the department of juvenile corrections; or
4.A person specifically licensed, authorized or
permitted pursuant to a statute of this state or of the United States.
D.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section does
not apply to an elected or appointed judicial officer in the court facility
where the judicial officer works if the judicial officer has demonstrated
competence with a firearm as prescribed in section 133112, subsection N,
except that the judicial officer shall comply with any rule or policy adopted
by the presiding judge of the superior court while in the court
facility.For the purposes of this subsection, appointed judicial
officer does not include a hearing officer or a judicial officer pro tempore that who is not a fulltime officer.
E.Subsection A, paragraphs 3 and 7 of this section
shall not apply to:
1.The possessing, transporting, selling or
transferring of weapons by a museum as a part of its collection or an
educational institution for educational purposes or by an authorized employee
of such museum or institution, if:
(a)Such museum or institution is operated by the
United States or this state or a political subdivision of this state, or by an
organization described in 26 United States Code section 170(c) as a recipient
of a charitable contribution; and
(b)Reasonable precautions are taken with respect to
theft or misuse of such material.
2.The regular and lawful transporting as
merchandise; or
3.Acquisition by a person by operation of law such
as by gift, devise or descent or in a fiduciary capacity as a recipient of the
property or former property of an insolvent, incapacitated or deceased person.
F.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall
not apply to the merchandise of an authorized manufacturer of or dealer in
prohibited weapons, when such material is intended to be manufactured,
possessed, transported, sold or transferred solely for or to a dealer, a
regularly constituted or appointed state, county or municipal police department
or police officer, a detention facility, the military service of this or
another state or the United States, a museum or educational institution or a
person specifically licensed or permitted pursuant to federal or state law.
G.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section shall
not apply to:
1.Shooting
ranges or shooting events, hunting areas or similar locations or activities.
2.A faculty
member or registered student of a public university, college or community
college who is carrying or transporting a firearm on the property of the public
university, college or community college if the faculty member or registered
student possesses a valid permit issued pursuant to section 13-3112 and is
registered with the institution's administration indicating that the faculty
member or registered student is armed and possesses a valid permit that is
issued pursuant to section 133112.
H.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall
not apply to a weapon described in section 133101, subsection A,
paragraph 8, subdivision (a), item (v), if such weapon is possessed for the
purposes of preparing for, conducting or participating in lawful exhibitions,
demonstrations, contests or athletic events involving the use of such
weapon.Subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section shall not apply
to a weapon if such weapon is possessed for the purposes of preparing for,
conducting or participating in hunter or firearm safety courses.
I.Subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section shall
not apply to the possession of a:
1.Firearm that is not loaded and that is carried
within a means of transportation under the control of an adult provided that if
the adult leaves the means of transportation the firearm shall not be visible
from the outside of the means of transportation and the means of transportation
shall be locked.
2.Firearm for use on the school grounds in a
program approved by a school.
3.Firearm by a person who possesses a certificate
of firearms proficiency pursuant to section 133112, subsection T and who
is authorized to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to the law enforcement
officers safety act of 2004 (P.L. 108277; 118 Stat. 865; 18 United
States Code sections 926B and 926C).
J.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7 and 13 of this
section shall not apply to commercial nuclear generating station armed nuclear
security guards during the performance of official duties or during any
security training exercises sponsored by the commercial nuclear generating
station or local, state or federal authorities.
K.The operator of the establishment or the sponsor
of the event or the employee of the operator or sponsor or the agent of the
sponsor, including a public entity or public employee, is not liable for acts
or omissions pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section unless the
operator, sponsor, employee or agent intended to cause injury or was grossly
negligent.
L.If a law enforcement officer contacts a person
who is in possession of a firearm, the law enforcement officer may take
temporary custody of the firearm for the duration of that contact.
M.Misconduct
involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 15 of this section is a class 2
felony.Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph
9, 14 or 16 of this section is a class 3 felony. Misconduct involving weapons
under subsection A, paragraph 3, 4, 8 or 13 of this section is a class 4
felony. Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 12 of this
section is a class 1 misdemeanor unless the violation occurs in connection with
conduct that violates section 132308, subsection A, paragraph 5, section
132312, subsection C, section 133409 or section 133411, in
which case the offense is a class 6 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of this section or subsection A,
paragraph 5, 6 or 7 of this section is a class 6 felony. Misconduct involving
weapons under subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this section or
subsection A, paragraph 10 or 11 of this section is a class 1 misdemeanor.
Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is
a class 3 misdemeanor.
N.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Contacted by
a law enforcement officer" means a lawful traffic or criminal
investigation, arrest or detention or an investigatory stop by a law
enforcement officer that is based on reasonable suspicion that an offense has
been or is about to be committed.
2."Public establishment" means a
structure, vehicle or craft that is owned, leased or operated by this state or
a political subdivision of this state.
3."Public event" means a specifically
named or sponsored event of limited duration that is either conducted by a
public entity or conducted by a private entity with a permit or license granted
by a public entity. Public event does not include an unsponsored gathering of
people in a public place.
4."School" means a public or nonpublic
kindergarten program, common school or high school.
5."School grounds" means in, or on the
grounds of, a school. END_STATUTE

