



PREFILED DEC 18 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: public safety; violence prevention;
  committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2011









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Thorpe, Senator Sherwood: Representative Finchem





AN ACT

establishing the
public safety and violence prevention study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Public safety and violence prevention
study committee; membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The public safety and
violence prevention study committee is established consisting of the following
members:
1.Three members of the
house of representatives, two of whom are appointed by the speaker of the house
of representatives and one of whom is appointed by the minority leader of the
house of representatives.The minority leader of the house of
representatives shall designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson
of the committee.
2.Three members of the
senate, two of whom are appointed by the president of the senate and one of
whom is appointed by the minority leader of the senate.The
president of the senate shall designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson
of the committee.
3.One member who
represents a law enforcement association and who is appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives.
4.One sheriff or the
sheriff's designee who is from a county with a population of nine hundred
thousand persons or more and who is appointed by the president of the senate.
5.One police chief or
the police chief's designee who is employed by a city with a population of five
hundred thousand persons or more and who is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives.
6.One member who
represents a network media outlet that operates in this state and who is
appointed by the president of the senate.
7.One member who
represents a group that advocates for gun owner rights and who is appointed by
the speaker of the house of representatives.
8.One member who
represents a group that advocates for gun violence prevention and who is
appointed by the minority leader of the senate.
9.One mental health
provider who represents a regional behavioral health authority and who is
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
10.One mental health
provider who has direct experience in acute mental health disorders and who is
appointed by the president of the senate.
B.The study committee shall:
1.Research and report
on how to promote public safety and curtail violence.
2.Hold hearings,
conduct fact-finding tours and take testimony from witnesses, including
participants in the gun industry, mental health field and criminal justice
system, who may assist the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
C.The study committee
may request information, data and reports from any state agency or political
subdivision of this state. If possible, information shall be provided
electronically.
D.On the request of the
study committee, an agency of this state shall provide to the committee its
services, equipment, documents, personnel and facilities to the extent possible
without cost to the committee.
E.The legislature shall
provide staff and support services to the committee.
F.The committee shall
meet at the state capitol or at other places as the cochairpersons deem
necessary or convenient, and all meetings shall be open to the public.
G.Members of the study
committee are not eligible to receive compensation but are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona
Revised Statutes.
H.On or before December
31, 2016, the study committee shall submit a report regarding its findings and
recommendations to the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives
and the president of the senate and provide a copy of its report to the
secretary of state.The report shall include the committee's
recommendations regarding the identification of issues where the stakeholders
have common ground and potential legislation and communitybased
strategies to effectively curtail violence and promote public safety.
I.This section is
repealed from and after September 30, 2017.

