



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: repeal; JTED funding reductions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2057









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley, Barton, Brophy McGee, Cobb, Coleman, Fann, Shope: Borrelli, Boyer,
  Campbell, Finchem, Gray, Lawrence, McCune Davis, Mesnard, Mitchell, Norgaard,
  Pratt, Townsend





AN ACT

amending section
15393, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to joint technical education
districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-393, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-393.Joint technical education district governing board;
report; definitions
A.The management and
control of the joint district are vested in the joint technical education
district governing board, including the content and quality of the courses
offered by the district, the quality of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district, the salaries of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district and the reimbursement of other entities for the
facilities used by the district.Unless the governing boards of the
school districts participating in the formation of the joint district vote to
implement an alternative election system as provided in subsection B of this
section, the joint board shall consist of five members elected from five single
member districts formed within the joint district. The single member district
election system shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392 and shall be established in the plan as
follows:
1.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district shall
define the boundaries of the single member districts so that the single member
districts are as nearly equal in population as is practicable, except that if
the joint district lies in part in each of two or more counties, at least one
single member district may be entirely within each of the counties comprising
the joint district if this district design is consistent with the obligation to
equalize the population among single member districts.
2.The boundaries of each
single member district shall follow election precinct boundary lines, as far as
practicable, in order to avoid further segmentation of the precincts.
3.A person who is a
registered voter of this state and who is a resident of the single member
district is eligible for election to the office of joint board member from the
single member district. The terms of office of the members of the joint board
shall be as prescribed in section 15427, subsection B.An
employee of a joint technical education district or the spouse of an employee
shall not hold membership on a governing board of a joint technical education
district by which the employee is employed.A member of one school
district governing board or joint technical education district governing board
is ineligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to or serve
simultaneously as a member of any other governing board, except that a member
of a governing board may be a candidate for nomination or election for any
other governing board if the member is serving in the last year of a term of
office. A member of a governing board shall resign the member's seat on the
governing board before becoming a candidate for nomination or election to the
governing board of any other school district or joint technical education
district, unless the member of the governing board is serving in the last year
of a term of office.
4.Nominating petitions
shall be signed by the number of qualified electors of the single member
district as provided in section 16322.
B.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district may
vote to implement any other alternative election system for the election of
joint district board members.If an alternative election system is
selected, it shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392, and the implementation of the system shall be
as approved by the United States justice department.
C.The joint technical
education district shall be subject to the following provisions of this title:
1.Chapter 1, articles 1
through 6.
2.Sections 15208,
15210, 15213 and 15234.
3.Articles 2, 3 and 5 of
this chapter.
4.Section 15361.
5.Chapter 4, articles 1,
2 and 5.
6.Chapter 5, articles 1,
2 and 3.
7.Sections 15701.01,
15722, 15723, 15724, 15727, 15728, 15729
and 15730.
8.Chapter 7, article 5.
9.Chapter 8, articles 1,
3 and 4.
10.Sections 15828
and 15829.
11.Chapter 9, article 1,
article 6, except for section 15995, and article 7.
12.Sections 15941,
15943.01, 15948, 15952, 15953 and 15973.
13.Sections 151101
and 151104.
14.Chapter 10, articles
2, 3, 4 and 8.
D.Notwithstanding
subsection C of this section, the following apply to a joint technical
education district:
1.A joint district may
issue bonds for the purposes specified in section 151021 and in chapter
4, article 5 of this title to an amount in the aggregate, including the
existing indebtedness, not exceeding one percent of the taxable property used
for secondary tax purposes, as determined pursuant to title 42, chapter 15,
article 1, within the joint technical education district as ascertained by the
last property tax assessment previous to issuing the bonds.
2.The number of governing
board members for a joint district shall be as prescribed in subsection A of
this section.
3.The student count for
the first year of operation of a joint technical education district as provided
in this article shall be determined as follows:
(a)Determine the
estimated student count for joint district classes that will operate in the
first year of operation. This estimate shall be based on actual registration
of pupils as of March 30 scheduled to attend classes that will be operated by
the joint district. The student count for the district of residence of the
pupils registered at the joint district shall be adjusted. The adjustment
shall cause the district of residence to reduce the student count for the pupil
to reflect the courses to be taken at the joint district. The district of
residence shall review and approve the adjustment of its own student count as
provided in this subdivision before the pupils from the school district can be
added to the student count of the joint district.
(b)The student count for
the new joint district shall be the student count as determined in subdivision
(a) of this paragraph.
(c)For the first year of
operation, the joint district shall revise the student count to the actual
average daily membership as prescribed in section 15901, subsection A,
paragraph 1 for students attending classes in the joint district. A joint
district shall revise its student count, the base support level as provided in
section 15943.02, the revenue control limit as provided in section 15944.01
and the district additional assistance as provided in section 15962.01
prior to May 15. A joint district that overestimated its student count shall
revise its budget prior to May 15. A joint district that underestimated its
student count may revise its budget prior to May 15.
(d)After March 15 of the
first year of operation, the district of residence shall adjust its student
count by reducing it to reflect the courses actually taken at the joint
district. The district of residence shall revise its student count, the base
support level as provided in section 15943, the revenue control limit as
provided in section 15944 and the district additional assistance as
provided in section 15962.01 prior to May15.A district
that underestimated the student count for students attending the joint district
shall revise its budget prior to May 15.A district that
overestimated the student count for students attending the joint district may
revise its budget prior to May 15.
(e)A joint district for the first year of operation
shall not be eligible for adjustment pursuant to section 15948.
(f)The procedures for implementing this paragraph
shall be as prescribed in the uniform system of financial records.
(g)Pupils in an approved joint technical education district
centralized program may generate an average daily membership of 1.0 during any
day of the week and at any time between July 1 and June 30 of each fiscal year.
For the purposes of this paragraph,
"district of residence" means the district that included the pupil in
its average daily membership for the year before the first year of operation of
the joint district and that would have included the pupil in its student count
for the purposes of computing its base support level for the fiscal year of the
first year of operation of the joint district if the pupil had not enrolled in
the joint district.
4.A student includes any person enrolled in the
joint district without regard to the person's age or high school graduation
status, except that:
(a)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who enrolls in courses offered by the joint technical
education district shall not be included in the joint district's student count
or average daily membership.
(b)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who is enrolled in career and technical education courses
shall not be funded in whole or in part with monies provided by a joint
technical education district, except that a pupil in grade eight or nine may be
funded with monies generated by the five cent qualifying tax rate authorized in
subsection F of this section.
(c)A student who is over twentyone years of
age shall not be included in the student count of the joint district for the
purposes of chapter 9, articles 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
5.A joint district may operate for more than one
hundred eighty days per year, with expanded hours of service.
6.A joint district may use the carryforward
provisions of section 15943.01.
7.A school district that is part of a joint
district shall use any monies received pursuant to this article to supplement
and not supplant base year career and technical education courses, and directly
related equipment and facilities, except that a school district that is part of
a joint technical education district and that has used monies received pursuant
to this article to supplant career and technical education courses that were
offered before the first year that the school district participated in the
joint district or the first year that the school district used monies received
pursuant to this article or that used the monies for purposes other than for
career and technical education courses shall use one hundred percent of the
monies received pursuant to this article to supplement and not supplant base
year career and technical education courses.
8.A joint technical education district shall use
any monies received pursuant to this article to enhance and not supplant career
and technical education courses and directly related equipment and facilities.
9.A joint technical education district or a school
district that is part of a joint district or a charter school shall only
include pupils in grades ten through twelve in the calculation of student count
or average daily membership if the pupils are enrolled in courses that are
approved jointly by the governing board of the joint technical education
district and each participating school district or charter school for satellite
courses taught within the participating school district or charter school, or
approved solely by the joint technical education district for centrally located
courses. Student count and average daily membership from courses that are not
part of an approved program for career and technical education shall not be
included in student count and average daily membership of a joint technical
education district.
E.The joint board shall appoint a superintendent as
the executive officer of the joint district.
F.Taxes may be levied for the support of the joint
district as prescribed in chapter 9, article 6 of this title, except that a
joint technical education district shall not levy a property tax pursuant to
law that exceeds five cents per one hundred dollars assessed valuation except
for bond monies pursuant to subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section. Except
for the taxes levied pursuant to section 15994, such taxes shall be
obtained from a levy of taxes on the taxable property used for secondary tax
purposes.
G.The schools in the joint district are available
to all persons who reside in the joint district and to pupils whose district of
residence within this state is paying tuition on behalf of the pupils to a
district of attendance that is a member of the joint technical education
district, subject to the rules for admission prescribed by the joint board.
H.The joint board may collect tuition for adult
students and the attendance of pupils who are residents of school districts
that are not participating in the joint district pursuant to arrangements made
between the governing board of the district and the joint board.
I.The joint board may accept gifts, grants, federal
monies, tuition and other allocations of monies to erect, repair and equip
buildings and for the cost of operation of the schools of the joint district.
J.One member of the joint board shall be selected
chairman.The chairman shall be selected annually on a rotation
basis from among the participating school districts. The chairman of the joint
board shall be a voting member.
K.A joint board and a community college district
may enter into agreements for the provision of administrative, operational and
educational services and facilities.
L.Any agreement between the governing board of a
joint technical education district and another joint technical education
district, a school district, a charter school or a community college district
shall be in the form of an intergovernmental agreement or other written
contract.The auditor general shall modify the uniform system of
financial records and budget forms in accordance with this
subsection.The intergovernmental agreement or other written
contract shall completely and accurately specify each of the following:
1.The financial provisions of the intergovernmental
agreement or other written contract and the format for the billing of all
services.
2.The accountability provisions of the
intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
3.The responsibilities of each joint technical
education district, each school district, each charter school and each
community college district that is a party to the intergovernmental agreement
or other written contract.
4.The type of instruction that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract, including
individualized education programs pursuant to section 15763.
5.The quality of the instruction that will be
provided under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
6.The transportation services that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract and the manner
in which transportation costs will be paid.
7.The amount that the joint technical education
district will contribute to a course and the amount of support required by the
school district or the community college.
8.That the services provided by the joint technical
education district, the school district, the charter school or the community
college district be proportionally calculated in the cost of delivering the
service.
9.That the payment for services shall not exceed
the cost of the services provided.
M.On or before December 31 of each year, each joint
technical education district shall submit a detailed report to the career and
technical education division of the department of education. The career and
technical education division of the department of education shall collect,
summarize and analyze the data submitted by the joint districts, shall submit
an annual report that summarizes the data submitted by the joint districts to the
governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the
senate and the state board of education and shall submit a copy of this report
to the secretary of state. The data submitted by each joint technical
education district shall include the following:
1.The average daily membership of the joint
district.
2.The program listings and program descriptions of
programs offered by the joint district, including the course sequences for each
program.
3.The costs associated with each program offered by
the joint district.
4.The completion rate for each program offered by
the joint district. For the purposes of this paragraph, "completion
rate" means the completion rate for students who are designated as
concentrators in that program by the department of education under the career
and technology approved plan.
5.The graduation rate from the school district of
residence of students who have completed a program in the joint district.
6.A detailed description of the career
opportunities available to students after completion of the program offered by
the joint district.
7.A detailed description of the career placement of
students who have completed the program offered by the joint district.
8.Any other data deemed necessary by the department
of education to carry out its duties under this subsection.
N.If the career and technical education division of
the department of education determines that a course does not meet the criteria
for approval as a joint technical education course, the governing board of the
joint technical education district may appeal this decision to the state board
of education acting as the state board of vocational education.
O.Notwithstanding any other law, the average daily
membership for a pupil who is enrolled in a joint technical education course
defined in section 15391 and who does not meet the criteria specified in
subsectionQ or R of this section shall be 0.25 for each course, except
the sum of the average daily membership shall not exceed the limits prescribed
by subsection D, Q or R of this section, as applicable.
P.If a career and technical education course or
program is provided on a satellite campus, the sum of the average daily
membership, as provided in section 15901, subsection A, paragraph 1, for
that pupil in the school district or charter school and joint technical
education district shall not exceed 1.25. The school district or charter
school and the joint district shall determine the apportionment of the average
daily membership for that pupil between the school district or charter school
and the joint district. A pupil who attends a course or program at a satellite
campus and who is not enrolled in the school district or charter school where
the satellite campus is located may generate the average daily membership
pursuant to this subsection if the pupil is enrolled in a school district that
is a member district in the same joint technical education district.
Q.The sum of the average daily membership of a
pupil who is enrolled in both the school district and joint technical education
district course or program provided at a community college pursuant to
subsection K of this section or at a centralized campus shall not exceed 1.75.
The member school district and the joint district shall determine the
apportionment of the average daily membership and student enrollment for that
pupil between the member school district and the joint district, except that
the amount apportioned shall not exceed 1.0 for either
entity.Notwithstanding any other law, the average daily membership
for a pupil in grade ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a course that
meets for at least one hundred fifty minutes per class period at a centralized
campus shall be 0.75.To qualify for funding pursuant to this subsection,
a centralized campus shall offer programs and courses to all eligible students
in each member district of the joint technical education district.
R.The average daily membership for a pupil in grade
ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a course that meets for at least one
hundred fifty minutes per class period at a leased centralized campus shall not
exceed 0.75.The sum of the average daily membership, as provided in
section 15901, subsection A, paragraph 1, of a pupil who is enrolled in
both the school district and in joint technical education district courses
provided at a leased centralized campus shall not exceed 1.75 if all of the
following conditions are met:
1.The course qualifies as a joint technical
education course as defined in section 15-391.
2.The course is offered to all eligible students in
each member district of the joint technical education district and enrolls
students from multiple high schools.
3.The joint technical education district program in
which the course is included addresses a specific industry need and has been
developed in cooperation with that industry, or the leased facility is a state
or federal asset that would otherwise be unused or underutilized.
4.The lease is established at fair market value if
the lease is executed for a facility located on the site of a member district
and was approved by the joint committee on capital review, except that a lease
that was executed or renewed before December 31, 2012 is not subject to
approval by the joint committee on capital review. The requirement prescribed
in this paragraph does not apply from and after December 31, 2016.
S.A student who is enrolled in an accommodation
school as defined in section 15101 may be treated as a student of the
school district in which the student physically resides for the purposes of
enrollment in a joint technical education district and shall be included in the
calculation of average daily membership for either the joint technical
education district or the accommodation school, or both.
T.Notwithstanding any other law, the student count
for a joint technical education district shall be equivalent to the joint
technical education district's average daily membership.
U.Beginning
in fiscal year 20162017, base support level funding that a school
district or charter school receives for a pupil who is enrolled in both a
school district or charter school and a joint technical education district
satellite campus program shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf
percent of the base support level funding that the school district or charter
school would otherwise receive for that pupil.
V.Beginning
in fiscal year 20162017, base support level funding that a joint
technical education district receives for a pupil who is enrolled in both a
school district or charter school and a joint technical education district
shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf percent of the base
support level funding that the joint technical education district would
otherwise receive for that pupil.
W.A school
district may not prohibit or discourage students who are enrolled in that
school district from attending courses offered by a joint technical education
district.
X.Notwithstanding
subsection D, paragraph 7 of this section, a school district or charter school
that experiences a reduction in its base support level funding pursuant to
subsection U of this section may use a portion of joint technical education
district monies that it receives pursuant to this section in order to offset
the loss of regular education funding that it experiences pursuant to
subsection U of this section. The amount of joint technical education monies
that the school district or charter school may use to offset the loss of
funding that it experiences pursuant to subsection U of this section may not
exceed the reduction in base support level funding that it experiences pursuant
to subsection U of this section.
Y.U.The governing
board of the joint technical education district may contract with any charter
school that is located within the boundaries of the joint technical education
district to allow that charter school to offer career and technical education
courses or programs as a satellite campus.
Z.V.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Base year" means the complete school
year in which voters of a school district elected to join a joint technical
education district.
2."Centralized campus" means a facility
that is owned and operated by a joint technical education district for the
purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint technical
education courses as defined in section 15391.
3."Lease" means a written agreement in
which the right of occupancy or use of real property is conveyed from one
person or entity to another person or entity for a specified period of time.
4."Leased centralized campus" means a
facility that is leased and operated by a joint technical education district
for the purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint
technical education courses as defined in section 15391.
5."Satellite campus" means a facility
that is owned or operated by a school district or charter school for the
purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint technical
education courses as defined in section 15391. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retroactivity
Section 15393, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, applies retroactively to from and after June 30, 2016.

