



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; personally identifiable
  information; prohibition








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2044









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem, Borrelli, Senator Burges: Representatives Cobb, Leach, Livingston





AN ACT

amending section
15102, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15, chapter 1, article
4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-143; relating to educational
records.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-102.Parental involvement in the school; definition
A.The governing board, in consultation with
parents, teachers and administrators, shall develop and adopt a policy to
promote the involvement of parents and guardians of children enrolled in the
schools within the school district, including:
1.A plan for parent participation in the schools which that is designed to improve parent and teacher
cooperation in such areas as homework, attendance and discipline.
2.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
course of study for their children and review learning materials, including the
source of any supplemental educational materials.
3.Procedures by which parents who object to any
learning material or activity on the basis that it is harmful may withdraw
their children from the activity or from the class or program in which the
material is used. Objection to a learning material or activity on the basis
that it is harmful includes objection to a material or activity because it
questions beliefs or practices in sex, morality or religion.
4.If a school district offers any sex education
curricula pursuant to section 15711 or 15716 or pursuant to any
rules adopted by the state board of education, procedures to prohibit a school
district from providing sex education instruction to a pupil unless the pupil's
parent provides written permission for the child to participate in the sex
education curricula.
5.Procedures by which parents will be notified in
advance of and given the opportunity to withdraw their children from any instruction
or presentations regarding sexuality in courses other than formal sex education
curricula.
6.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
nature and purpose of clubs and activities that are part of the school
curriculum, extracurricular clubs and activities that have been approved by the
school.
7.Procedures by which parents may learn about
parental rights and responsibilities under the laws of this state, including
the following:
(a)The right to opt in to a sex education
curriculum if one is provided by the school district.
(b)Open enrollment rights pursuant to section 15816.01.
(c)The right to opt out of assignments pursuant to
this section.
(d)The right to opt out of immunizations pursuant
to section 15873.
(e)The promotion requirements prescribed in section
15701.
(f)The minimum course of study and competency
requirements for graduation from high school prescribed in section 15701.01.
(g)The right to opt out of instruction on the
acquired immune deficiency syndrome pursuant to section 15716.
(h)The right to review test results pursuant to
section 15743.
(i)The right to participate in gifted programs
pursuant to section 15779.01.
(j)The right to access instructional materials
pursuant to section 15730.
(k)The right to receive a school report card
pursuant to section 15746.
(l)The attendance requirements prescribed in
sections 15802, 15803 and 15821.
(m)The right to public review of courses of study
and textbooks pursuant to section 15721.
(n)The right to be excused from school attendance
for religious purposes pursuant to section 15806.
(o)Policies related to parental involvement
pursuant to this section.
(p)The right to seek membership on school councils
pursuant to section 15351.
(q)The right to participate in a parental
satisfaction survey pursuant to section 15353.
(r)Information about the student accountability
information system as prescribed in section 151042 151041.
(s)The right to access the failing schools tutoring
fund pursuant to section 15-241.
8.Procedures
concerning the administration of surveys to pupils, which shall include all of
the following:
(a)Procedures by which parents will
be notified in advance of all of the following:
(i)The proposed administration of
the survey.
(ii)The right of a parent to opt in
to the administration of each survey to the parent's child. A survey may not
be administered to a pupil unless the parent provides written permission for
that parent's child to be administered that survey.
(iii)The full text of the survey.
(iv)A full and complete list of the
persons and entities that will receive the survey results. In accordance with
section 15143, if the survey includes personally identifiable pupil
information, the personally identifiable information may not be distributed
beyond the school district.
(v)A full and accurate description
of the purpose of the survey.
(b)Procedures to identify persons
and entities that mishandle or misuse information from surveys that are
administered to pupils.
(c)Disciplinary procedures,
including termination of employment, for teachers and administrators who
violate this paragraph.
B.The policy adopted by the governing board
pursuant to this section may also include the following components:
1.A plan by which parents will be made aware of the
district's parental involvement policy and this section, including:
(a)Rights under the family educational rights and
privacy act of 1974 (20 United States Code section 1232g) relating to access to
children's official records.
(b)The parent's right to inspect the school
district policies and curriculum.
2.Efforts to encourage the development of parenting
skills.
3.The communication to parents of techniques
designed to assist the child's learning experience in the home.
4.Efforts to encourage access to community and
support services for children and families.
5.The promotion of communication between the school
and parents concerning school programs and the academic progress of the
parents' children.
6.Identifying opportunities for parents to
participate in and support classroom instruction at the school.
7.Efforts to support, with appropriate training,
parents as shared decision makers
decisionmakers and
to encourage membership on school councils.
8.The recognition of the diversity of parents and
the development of guidelines that promote widespread parental participation
and involvement in the school at various levels.
9.The development of preparation programs and
specialized courses for certificated employees and administrators that promote
parental involvement.
10.The development of strategies and programmatic
structures at schools to encourage and enable parents to participate actively
in their children's education.
C.The governing board may adopt a policy to provide
to parents the information required by this section in an electronic form.
D.A parent shall submit a written request for
information pursuant to this section during regular business hours to either
the school principal at the school site or the superintendent of the school
district at the office of the school district.Within ten days of
receiving the request for information, the school principal or the
superintendent of the school district shall either deliver the requested
information to the parent or submit to the parent a written explanation of the
reasons for the denial of the requested information. If the request for
information is denied or the parent does not receive the requested information
within fifteen days after submitting the request for information, the parent
may submit a written request for the information to the school district
governing board, which shall formally consider the request at the next
scheduled public meeting of the governing board if the request can be properly
noticed on the agenda. If the request cannot be properly noticed on the
agenda, the governing board shall formally consider the request at the next
subsequent public meeting of the governing board.
E.A parent
may commence a civil action for damages in superior court on the parent's own
behalf or on behalf of the parent's child, or both, against any person or
entity who is alleged to be in violation of subsection A, paragraph 8 of this
section. In any action under this subsection, the plaintiff has the burden of
proof. The court, in issuing any final order in any action brought pursuant to
this subsection, may:
1.Award
costs of litigation, including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees, to
any party if the court determines such an award is appropriate and, in
addition, to the defendant in the case of a frivolous action.
2.Provide
for injunctive or other equitable relief.
E.F.For the purposes
of this section, "parent" means the natural or adoptive parent or
legal guardian of a minor child. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 1, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-143, to read:
START_STATUTE15-143.Personally identifiable pupil information; distribution
prohibited; definitions
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, a school district or charter school may not distribute
personally identifiable information that it collects about a pupil, including
noncognitive data, beyond the school district or charter
school.This subsection does not prohibit a school district or
charter school from distributing aggregated cognitive data and assessments to
the Arizona department of education, the state board of education, the
superintendent of public instruction, the United States department of education
or any other governmental entity.
B.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Cognitive
data and assessments" means test scores, scores for a specific academic
assignment or task, scores or grades for a specific course or other
measurements of academic performance.
2."noncognitive
data" means any of the following information:
(a)The pupil's birth weight.
(b)The religious affiliation of the
pupil or the pupil's family members.
(c)Participation by the pupil or
the pupil's family members in any private organization, group, class or club.
(d)The political affiliation of the
pupil or the pupil's family members.
(e)Any other personal information
about the pupil or the pupil's family members. END_STATUTE

