



PREFILED DEC 30 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: information technology; transfer; title
  18






State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2013









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

Repealing title
12, chapter 6, article 14, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending the arizona
revised statutes by adding title 18; providing for transferring and
renumbering; amending sections 18103, 18105, 18443, 18501,
18502, 18503, 18504, 18541, 18543, 18544
and 18545, Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered;
amending sections 282065, 331701, 363802, 38543, 38544,
41121, 41352, 411277, 411504, 412513, 413016.06,
447011, 447041, 447042 and 479525, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending laws 2006, chapter 232, section 3; relating to information
technology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Title 12, chapter 6,
article 14, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.The Arizona Revised Statutes are
amended by adding Title 18, to read:
TITLE 18
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CHAPTER 1
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 2.INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUTHORIZATION
COMMITTEE
ARTICLE 3.ALTERNATIVE ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC
OR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CHAPTER 2
NETWORK ACCESS
ARTICLE 1.ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY
CHAPTER 3
GOVERNMENTAL REPORTING OF INFORMATION
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 4
NETWORK SERVICES
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 2.DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 3.SECRETARY OF STATE
CHAPTER 5
NETWORK SECURITY
ARTICLE 1.COMPUTER SPYWARE
ARTICLE 2.GOVERNMENT ANTIIDENTIFICATION
PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 3.INTERNET REPRESENTATIONS
Sec.3.Transfer and renumber
A.Title 41, chapter 32,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title
18, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, as chapter 1. Title 41,
chapter 32, articles 1, 2 and 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, are transferred and
renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, as articles 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The following
sections are transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 1,
article 1:
 Former
Sections New Sections
413501.................................. 18101
413502.................................. 18102
413503.................................. 18103
413504.................................. 18104
413507.................................. 18105
The
following section is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18,
chapter 1, article 2:
 Former
Section New Section
413521.................................. 18121
The following sections are
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 1, article 3:
 Former
Sections New Sections
413531.................................. 18131
413532.................................. 18132
B.The following sections are transferred and
renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 2, article 1:
 Former
Sections New Sections
414151.................................. 18201
414152.................................. 18202
414153.................................. 18203
C.Title 41, chapter 46, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, as chapter 3. Title 41, chapter 46, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is transferred and renumbered for placement in title
18, chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, as article 1.
The following sections are transferred and renumbered for placement in title
18, chapter 3, article 1:
 Former
Sections New Sections
414601.................................. 18301
414602.................................. 18302
414603.................................. 18303
414604.................................. 18304
D.The following
sections are transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 4,
article 1:
 Former Sections New
Sections
413505.................................. 18401
413508.................................. 18402
The following sections are
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 4, article 2:
 Former Sections New
Sections
413506.................................. 18421
415101.................................. 18422
The following sections are
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 4, article 3:
 Former Sections New
Sections
41127................................... 18441
41132................................... 18442
41134................................... 18443
Section 38542, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2011, chapter 332, section 27, is
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 4, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 18444. Section 38542,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 149, section 1, is
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 4, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as section 18444.
E.The following sections are transferred and
renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 5, article 1:
 Former
Sections New Sections
447301.................................. 18501
447302.................................. 18502
447303.................................. 18503
447304.................................. 18504
The following sections are
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 5, article 2:
414171.................................. 18521
414172.................................. 18522
The following sections are
transferred and renumbered for placement in title 18, chapter 5, article 3:
447201.................................. 18541
447202.................................. 18542
447203.................................. 18543
447204.................................. 18544
447501.................................. 18545
Sec.4.Heading repeal
A.The following chapter
headings are repealed:
1.Title 41, chapter 39,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
2.Title 41, chapter 51,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
3.Title 44, chapter 29,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
4.Title 44, chapter 30,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
5.Title 44, chapter 32,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
B.The following article
headings are repealed:
1.Title 41, chapter 39,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
2.Title 41, chapter 39,
article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
3.Title 41, chapter 51,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
4.Title 44, chapter 29,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
5.Title 44, chapter 30,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
6.Title 44, chapter 32,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes.
Sec.5.Section 18103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18103.Powers and duties of director
In regard to government
information technology, the director shall:
1.Appoint a chief information officer for
information technology.
2.Establish minimum qualifications for each
position authorized for the department for government information
technology.The qualifications shall be subject to the review of the
information technology authorization committee.
3.Employ, determine the conditions of employment
and prescribe the duties and powers of administrative, professional, technical,
secretarial, clerical and other persons subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 of this title as may be necessary in the
performance of the department's duties and contract for the services of outside
advisors, consultants and aides as may be reasonably
necessary.Employees of the department shall meet the minimum
qualifications established pursuant to this section.END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 18105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18105.Statewide information security and privacy office; duties;
suspension of budget unit's information infrastructure
A.The statewide information security and privacy
office is established in the department. The statewide information security
and privacy office shall serve as the strategic planning, facilitation and
coordination office for information technology security in this state. Individual
budget units shall continue to maintain operational responsibility for
information technology security.
B.The director shall appoint a statewide chief
information security officer to manage the statewide information security and
privacy office. The statewide chief information security officer shall report
to the director pursuant to section 413503
18103. 
C.The statewide information security and privacy
office shall develop, implement, maintain and ensure compliance by each budget
unit with a coordinated statewide assurance plan for information security and
privacy. The statewide information security and privacy office shall:
1.Direct information security and privacy
protection compliance reviews with each budget unit to ensure compliance with
standards and effectiveness of security assurance plans as necessary.
2.Identify information security and privacy
protection risks in each budget unit and direct agencies to adopt risk
mitigation strategies, methods and procedures to lessen these risks.
3.Monitor and report compliance of each budget unit
with state information security and privacy protection policies, standards and
procedures.
4.Coordinate statewide information security and
privacy protection awareness and training programs.
5.Develop other strategies as necessary to protect
this state's information technology infrastructure and the data that is stored
on or transmitted by such the infrastructure.
D.The statewide information security and privacy
office may temporarily suspend operation of information infrastructure that is
owned, leased, outsourced or shared in order to isolate the source of, or stop
the spread of, an information security breach or other similar
incident.A budget unit shall comply with directives to temporarily
discontinue or suspend operations of information infrastructure.
E.Each budget unit and its contractors shall
identify and report security incidents to the statewide information security
and privacy office immediately on discovery and deploy mitigation strategies as
directed. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 18443, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18443.Electronic database system; procedures
A.Subject to legislative
appropriation or transfer of monies, the secretary of state shall develop
electronic database systems for financial disclosures required under title 38,
chapter 3.1, article 1 and lobbyist reporting requirements under title 41, chapter 7, article
8.1 of this title.
B.The electronic database system shall allow a
county, city or town to elect to use the secretary of state's system subject
to:
1.Approval of the local governing body.
2.The local governing body conforming the local
governing body's financial disclosure requirement and lobbying disclosure
requirements with requirements of this state.
C.This section does not require the secretary of
state to provide for a system that complies with filing requirements other than
those required in sections 38542
18444 and 38543
and title 41, chapter 7,
article 8.1 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 18501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18501.Definitions
In this chapter
article, unless the
context otherwise requires:
1."Advertisement" means a communication
the primary purpose of which is the commercial promotion of a commercial
product or service, including communication on an internet web site website that is operated for a commercial purpose.
2."Computer software" means a sequence of
instructions that is written in any programming language and that is executed
on a computer and does not include a web page or data components of web pages
that are not executable independently of the web page.
3."Damage" means any significant
impairment to the integrity or availability of data, computer software, a
system or information.
4."Execute" means the performance of the
functions or the carrying out of the instructions of the computer software.
5."Intentionally deceptive" means any of
the following:
(a)By means of an intentionally and materially
false or fraudulent statement.
(b)By means of a statement or description that
intentionally omits or misrepresents material information in order to deceive
an owner or operator of a computer.
(c)By means of an intentional and material failure
to provide any notice to an owner or operator of a computer regarding the
installation or execution of computer software in order to deceive the owner or
operator.
6."Internet" means the global information
system that is logically linked together by a globally unique address space
based on the internet protocol, or its subsequent extensions, and that is able
to support communications using the transmission control protocol/internet protocol or internet protocol suite, or it its subsequent extensions, or other internet
protocol compatible protocols, and that provides, uses or makes accessible,
either publicly or privately, high level services layered on the communications
and related infrastructure described in this paragraph.
7."Owner or operator" means the owner or
lessee of a computer or someone using the computer with the owner's or lessee's
authorization. Owner or operator does not include any person who owns a
computer before the first retail sale of the computer.
8."Person" means any individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other organization or
any combination of these entities.
9."Personally
identifiable information" means any of the following with respect to an
individual who is an owner or operator of a computer:
(a)First name or first initial in combination with
last name.
(b)A home or other physical address including
street name.
(c)An electronic mail address.
(d)A credit or debit card number or bank account
number or any password or access code associated with a credit or debit card or
bank account.
(e)A social security number, tax identification
number, driver license number, passport number or any other government issued
identification number.
(f)Any of the following information in a form that
personally identifies an owner or operator of a computer:
(i)Account balances.
(ii)Overdraft history.
(iii)Payment history.
10."Transmit" means to transfer, send or
make available computer software, or any component of computer software, via
the internet or any other medium, including local area networks of computers,
any other nonwire transmission and a disk or other data storage device.
Transmit does not include any action by a person providing any of the
following:
(a)The internet connection, telephone connection or
other means of transmission capability such as a compact disk or digital video
disk through which the software was made available.
(b)The storage or hosting of the software program
or an internet web page through which the software was made available.
(c)An information location tool, such as a
directory, index, reference, pointer or hypertext link, through which the user
of the computer located the software, unless the person receives a direct
economic benefit from the execution of the software on the computer. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 18502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18502.Prohibited activities; applicability
A.It is unlawful for any person who is not an owner
or operator of a computer to transmit computer software to a computer, with
actual knowledge or with conscious avoidance of actual knowledge, and to use
the software to do any of the following:
1.Modify, through intentionally deceptive means,
settings that control any of the following:
(a)The page that appears when an owner or operator
of a computer launches an internet browser or similar computer software used to
access and navigate the internet.
(b)The default provider or web proxy that an owner
or operator of a computer uses to access or search the internet.
(c)An owner owner's or operator's list of
bookmarks used to access web pages.
2.Collect, through intentionally deceptive means,
personally identifiable information:
(a)Through the use of a keystroke logging function
that records all keystrokes made by an authorized user who uses the computer
and transfers that information from the computer to another person.
(b)In a manner that correlates the information with
data respecting all or substantially all of the web sites websites visited by an owner or operator of
the computer, other than web sites
websites operated by the
person collecting the information.
(c)With respect only to information described in
section 44-7301 18501, paragraph 9, by
extracting such information from the hard drive of an owner owner's
or operator's computer.
3.Prevent, through intentionally deceptive means,
an owner owner's or operator's reasonable efforts to
block the installation or execution of, or to disable, computer software by
causing software that an owner or operator of the computer has properly removed
or disabled automatically to reinstall or reactivate on the computer.
4.Intentionally misrepresent that computer software
will be uninstalled or disabled by an owner
owner's or operator's
action.
5.Through intentionally deceptive means, remove,
disable or render inoperative security, antispyware or antivirus computer
software installed on the computer.
6.Take control of the computer by:
(a)Accessing or using the modem or internet service
for the computer for the purpose of causing damage to the computer or causing
an owner or operator to incur financial charges for a service that the owner or
operator of the computer has not authorized.
(b)Opening multiple, sequential, stand alone stand-alone advertisements in an owner owner's or operator's internet browser without
the authorization of an the owner or operator and that a reasonable computer
user cannot close without turning off the computer or closing the internet
browser.
7.Modify any of the following settings related to
the computer's access to, or use of, the internet:
(a)Settings that protect information about an owner
or operator of the computer for the purpose of stealing personally identifiable
information of the owner or operator.
(b)Security settings for the purpose of causing
damage to a computer.
8.Prevent an owner
owner's or operator's
reasonable efforts to block the installation of, or to disable, computer
software, by doing either of the following:
(a)Presenting the owner or operator with an option
to decline installation of computer software with knowledge that, when if the option is selected, the installation
nevertheless proceeds.
(b)Falsely representing that computer software has
been disabled.
B.It is unlawful for any person who is not an owner
or operator of a computer to do either of the following with regard to the
computer:
1.Induce an owner or operator to install a computer
software component on the computer by intentionally misrepresenting the extent
to which installing the software is necessary for security or privacy reasons
or in order to open, view or play a particular type of content.
2.Deceptively cause the execution on the computer
of a computer software component with the intent of causing an owner or
operator to use the component in a manner that violates any other provision of
this section.
C.Nothing in
This section applies does not apply to any
monitoring of, or interaction with, a subscriber's internet or other network
connection or service, or a computer, by a telecommunications carrier, cable
operator, computer hardware or software provider or provider of information
service or interactive computer service for network or computer security
purposes, diagnostics, technical support, maintenance, repair, authorized
updates of software or system firmware, authorized remote system management or
detection or prevention of the unauthorized use of or fraudulent or other
illegal activities in connection with a network, service or computer software,
including scanning for and removing software prescribed under this chapter article. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 18503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18503.Statewide concern; preemption
It is the intent of the legislature that this chapter article
is a matter of statewide concern. This chapter article
supersedes and preempts all rules, regulations, codes, ordinances
and other laws adopted by a city, county, municipality or local agency
regarding spyware and notices to consumers from computer software providers
regarding information collection.END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 18504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18504.Civil remedies; damages
A.In addition to any other remedies provided by
law, the attorney general, or a computer software provider or a web site website or trademark owner who is adversely affected by a
violation of this chapter article, may bring an action
against a person who violates this chapter article to:
1.Enjoin further violations of this chapter
article.
2.Recover the greater of actual damages or one
hundred thousand dollars for each separate violation of this chapter
article.
B.A single action or conduct that violates more
than one paragraph of section 447302
18502, subsection
A or subsection B or at
least one paragraph of section 447302
18502, subsection
A and at least one paragraph of section 447302
18502, subsection
B shall be considered multiple violations. The number of violations shall be
based on the number of paragraphs violated.
C.In an action brought under this section, a court
may:
1.Increase the damages up to three times the damages
allowed by subsection A of this section if the defendant has engaged in a
pattern and practice of violating this chapter article.
2.Award costs and reasonable attorney fees to the
prevailing party. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 18541, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18541.Definitions
For the purposes of this
chapter In this article,
unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Electronic mail message" means a
message sent to a unique destination that consists of a unique user name or
mailbox and a reference to an internet domain, whether or not displayed, and to
which an electronic mail message can be sent or delivered.
2."Identifying information" means an
individual's piece of information that can be used to access an individual's
financial accounts or to obtain goods or services and that includes an
individual's:
(a)Social security number.
(b)Driver license number.
(c)Bank account number.
(d)Credit or debit card number.
(e)Personal identification number.
(f)Automated or electronic signature.
(g)Unique biometric data.
(h)Account passwords.
3."Internet" means collectively the
myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including equipment and
operating software, that comprise the interconnected worldwide network of
networks that employ the transmission control protocol or internet protocol, or
any predecessor or successor protocols to such protocol, to communicate
information of all kinds by wire or radio.
4."Web page" means a location with
respect to the worldwide web that has a single uniform resource locator or
other single location with respect to the internet. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 18543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18543.Civil remedies; damages
A.A person who either is engaged in the business of
providing internet access service to the public or owns a web page or trademark
and who is adversely affected by reason of a violation of this chapter article
may bring an action against a person who violates this chapter article to:
1.Enjoin further violations of this chapter article.
2.Recover the greater of actual damages or two
thousand five hundred dollars for each separate violation of this chapter article.
B.A person, other than a person who is described in
subsection A of this section, who is adversely affected by reason of a
violation of this chapter article may bring an action
only against the person who violates this chapter article to:
1.Enjoin further violations of this chapter article.
2.Recover the greater of actual damages or five
thousand dollars for each separate violation of this chapter article.
C.The attorney general may bring an action against
a person who violates this chapter
article to:
1.Enjoin further violations of this chapter article.
2.Recover two thousand five hundred dollars per
violation.
D.An action under this section must be brought
within three years after the violation is discovered or by the exercise of
reasonable diligence should have been discovered, whichever is earlier.
E.In an action under this section, the court may
increase a damage award to an amount equal to not more than three times the
amount otherwise available under this section if the court determines that the
defendant has engaged in a pattern and practice of violating this chapter article.
F.The attorney general may also recover reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
G.For the purposes of this section, multiple
violations of this chapter article resulting from any
single action or act shall constitute one violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 18544, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18544.Violation; classification
A person who violates this chapter article
is guilty of a class 5 felony. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 18545, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE18545.Notification of breach of security system; enforcement;
civil penalty; preemption; exceptions; definitions
A.When a person that conducts business in this
state and that owns or licenses unencrypted computerized data that includes
personal information becomes aware of an incident of unauthorized acquisition
and access to unencrypted or unredacted computerized data that includes an
individual's personal information, the person shall conduct a reasonable
investigation to promptly determine if there has been a breach of the security
system. If the investigation results in a determination that there has been a
breach in the security system, the person shall notify the individuals
affected. The notice shall be made in the most expedient manner possible and
without unreasonable delay subject to the needs of law enforcement as provided
in subsection C of this section and any measures necessary to determine the
nature and scope of the breach, to identify the individuals affected or to
restore the reasonable integrity of the data system.
B.A person that maintains unencrypted computerized
data that includes personal information that the person does not own shall
notify and cooperate with the owner or the licensee of the information of any
breach of the security of the system following discovery of the breach without
unreasonable delay. Cooperation shall include sharing information relevant to
the breach of the security of the system with the owner or licensee. The
person that owns or licenses the computerized data shall provide notice to the
individual pursuant to this section. The person that maintained the data under
an agreement with the owner or licensee is not required to provide notice to
the individual pursuant to this section unless the agreement stipulates
otherwise.
C.The notification required by subsection A of this
section may be delayed if a law enforcement agency advises the person that the
notification will impede a criminal investigation. The person shall make the
notification after the law enforcement agency determines that it will not
compromise the investigation.
D.The disclosure required by subsection A of this
section shall be provided by one of the following methods:
1.Written notice.
2.Electronic notice if the person's primary method
of communication with the individual is by electronic means or is consistent
with the provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in
the electronic signatures in global and national commerce act (P.L. 106229;
114 Stat. 464; 15 United States Code section 7001).
3.Telephonic notice.
4.Substitute notice if the person demonstrates that
the cost of providing notice pursuant to paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection
would exceed fifty thousand dollars or that the affected class of subject
individuals to be notified exceeds one hundred thousand persons, or the person
does not have sufficient contact information. Substitute notice shall consist
of all of the following:
(a)Electronic mail notice if the person has
electronic mail addresses for the individuals subject to the notice.
(b)Conspicuous posting of the notice on the web site website of the person if the person maintains
one.
(c)Notification to major statewide media.
E.A person who maintains the person's own
notification procedures as part of an information security policy for the
treatment of personal information and is otherwise consistent with the
requirements of this section shall be deemed to be in compliance with the
notification requirements of this section if the person notifies subject
individuals in accordance with the person's policies if a breach of the
security system occurs.
F.A person that complies with the notification
requirements or security breach procedures pursuant to the rules, regulations,
procedures, guidance or guidelines established by the person's primary or
functional federal regulator is deemed to be in compliance with this section.
G.A person is not required to disclose a breach of
the security of the system if the person or a law enforcement agency, after a
reasonable investigation, determines that a breach of the security of the
system has not occurred or is not reasonably likely to occur.
H.This section may only be enforced by the attorney
general. The attorney general may bring an action to obtain actual damages for
a wilful and knowing violation of this section and a civil penalty not to
exceed ten thousand dollars per breach of the security of the system or series
of breaches of a similar nature that are discovered in a single investigation.
I.The state legislature determines that security
system breach notification is a matter of statewide concern. The power to
regulate security breach notification is preempted by this state and this
section shall supersede and preempt all municipal and county laws, charters,
ordinances and rules relating to issues regulated by this chapter section.
J.This section does not apply to either of the
following:
1.A person subject to title V of the GrammLeachBliley
act of 1999 (P.L. 106-102;
113 Stat. 1338; 15 United States Code sections 6801 through 6809).
2.Covered entities as defined under regulations
implementing the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, 45 Code of Federal
Regulations section 160.103 (1996).
K.The department of public safety, a county
sheriff's department, a municipal police department, a prosecution agency and a
court shall create and maintain an information security policy that includes
notification procedures for a breach of the security system of the department
of public safety, the county sheriff's department, the municipal police
department, the prosecuting agency or the court.
L.For the purposes of this section:
1."Breach", "breach of the security
of the system", "breach of the security system" or
"security breach" means an unauthorized acquisition of and access to
unencrypted or unredacted computerized data that materially compromises the
security or confidentiality of personal information maintained by a person as
part of a database of personal information regarding multiple individuals and
that causes or is reasonably likely to cause substantial economic loss to an
individual. Good faith acquisition of personal information by an employee or
agent of the person for the purposes of the person is not a breach of the
security system if the personal information is not used for a purpose unrelated
to the person or subject to further wilful unauthorized disclosure.
2."Court" means the supreme court, court
of appeals, superior court, courts inferior to the superior court and justice
courts.
3."Encrypted" means use of an algorithmic
process to transform data into a form in which the data is rendered unreadable
or unusable without use of a confidential process or key.
4."Individual" means a person that is a
resident of this state as determined by a principal mailing address in this
state as reflected in the records of the person conducting business in this
state at the time of the breach.
5."Person" means a natural person,
corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, joint
venture, government, governmental subdivision or agency or any other legal or
commercial entity.Person does not include the department of public safety,
a county sheriff's department, a municipal police department, a prosecution
agency or a court.
6."Personal information":
(a)Means an individual's first name or first
initial and last name in combination with any one or more of the following data
elements, when the data element is not encrypted, redacted or secured by any
other method rendering the element unreadable or unusable:
(i)The individual's social security number.
(ii)The individual's number on a driver license
issued pursuant to section 283166 or number on a nonoperating
identification license issued pursuant to section 283165.
(iii)The individual's financial account number or
credit or debit card number in combination with any required security code,
access code or password that would permit access to the individual's financial
account.
(b)Does not include publicly available information
that is lawfully made available to the general public from federal, state or
local government records or widely distributed media.
7."Prosecution agency" means the attorney
general, any county attorney or any municipal prosecutor.
8."Redact" means alter or truncate data
such that no more than the last four digits of a social security number, driver
license number, nonoperating identification license number, financial account
number or credit or debit card number is accessible as part of the personal
information. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 28-2065, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2065.Electronic and digital signatures; documents
A.On or
before January 1, 2009, The director in cooperation with a
statewide association of franchised new motor vehicle dealers shall establish a
schedule to develop a pilot program to accept and use electronic or digital
signatures.
B.In the process of developing the pilot program,
the director shall research and develop methods to allow the department,
authorized third parties, licensed financial institutions, licensed insurers or
any other business or individual as determined by the director to accept,
exchange and use electronic or digital signatures for any document or for any
transaction prescribed in this chapter and sections 28370, 28444,
28453 and 285111.
C.The participants shall ensure that adequate
security measures are in place to prevent any illegal use of the signatures or
other information exchanged pursuant to this section.
D.Except for a statewide association of franchised
new motor vehicle dealers, the director may limit the number of participants in
the system but shall encourage authorized third parties and businesses of
various sizes to participate.
E.After the system has been operating for twelve
months, the director may expand the system if the director determines the
system is successful.
F.The director may determine and require
reimbursement from pilot program participants for costs related to computer
programming, hardware, development and personnel. The department shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all monies
received pursuant to this section in a separate account of the state highway
fund established by section 28-6991. Monies in the separate account are
continuously appropriated.The director may transfer monies
deposited pursuant to this subsection from the separate account to the
operating budget of the department's motor vehicle division for the purpose of
reimbursing the department's operating budget for expenditures made by the division
pursuant to this section.
G.This section does not limit the use of electronic
and digital signatures used by state agencies, boards or commissions pursuant
to section 41-132 18442.
H.The director shall adopt policies necessary to
implement this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section
33-1701, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1701.Definitions; exception
A.In this article,
unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Default" means the failure to perform
on time any obligation or duty set forth in the rental agreement.
2."Department" means the Arizona game and
fish department in the case of motorized watercraft and the department of
transportation in the case of all other vehicles.
3."Electronic mail" means an electronic
message or an executable program or computer file that contains an image of a
message that is transmitted between two or more computers or electronic
terminals and includes electronic messages that are transmitted within or
between computer networks from which a confirmation of receipt is received.
4."Last known address" means that postal
address or electronic address provided by the occupant in the rental agreement
or the postal address or electronic address provided by the occupant in a
subsequent written notice of a change of address.
5."Late fee" means a reasonable fee or
charge that is assessed by the operator for the failure of the occupant to pay
rent when due pursuant to section 331703, subsection D.
6."Leased space" means the storage space
or spaces at the selfservice storage facility that are rented to an
occupant pursuant to a rental agreement.
7."Net proceeds" means the total proceeds
received from the lien sale less the total amount of the lien.
8."Occupant" means a person or the
person's sublessee, successor or assign, entitled to the use of the leased
space at a selfservice storage facility under a rental agreement, to the
exclusion of others.
9."Operator" means the owner, operator,
lessor or sublessor of a selfservice storage facility, an agent or any
other person authorized to manage the facility.
10."Personal information" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 44-7501
18545 and includes
passport information and medical or legal records.
11."Personal property" means movable
property that is not affixed to land and includes but is not limited to goods,
wares, merchandise, household items and furnishings and vehicles.
12."Protected property" means personal
property the sale or disposal of which is regulated by state or federal law and
that is one of the following:
(a)Documents, files or electronic data that
contains personal information relating to clients, customers, patients or
others in connection with the occupant's business.
(b)Alcoholic beverages.
(c)Pharmaceuticals other than those dispensed by a
licensed pharmacy for the occupant's personal use.
(d)Firearms.
13."Registered owner" means an owner of a
vehicle as stated in the official records of the department.
14."Rental
agreement" means any written agreement provided to the occupant that
establishes or modifies the terms, conditions or rules concerning the use and
occupancy of leased space at a selfservice storage facility.
15."Selfservice storage facility"
means any real property used for renting or leasing storage spaces in which the
occupants themselves customarily store and remove their own personal property
on a selfservice basis.
16."Vehicle" means a motor vehicle, a
trailer or a semitrailer as defined in section 28101 and a motorized
watercraft as defined in section 5301.
17."Verified mail" means any method of
mailing that is offered by the United States postal service and that provides
evidence of mailing.
B.This article does not apply to a warehouseman
unless the warehouseman issues a warehouse receipt, bill of lading or other
document of title for the personal property stored. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 36-3802, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-3802.Individual rights
A.A health information organization must provide
the following rights to individuals:
1.To opt out of participating in the health
information organization pursuant to section 363803.
2.To request a copy of the individual's
individually identifiable health information that is available through the
health information organization.The health information organization
may provide this right directly or may require health care providers
participating in the health information organization to provide access to
individuals. The copy may be provided electronically, if the individual
requesting the copy consents to electronic delivery of the individually
identifiable health information, and must be provided to the individual within
thirty days after the individual's request. Charges for copies are governed by
section 122295.
3.To request amendment of incorrect individually
identifiable health information available through the health information
organization.
4.To request a list of the persons who have
accessed the individual's individually identifiable health information through
the health information organization for a period of at least three years before
the individual's request.This list must be provided to the
individual within thirty days after the individual's request.
5.To be notified, pursuant to section 447501 18545 and 45 Code of Federal
Regulations part 164, subpart D, of a breach at the health information
organization that affects the individual's individually identifiable health
information.
B.If an individual does not have the capacity to
make health care decisions, the individual's health care decision maker may
exercise all individual rights in this chapter on behalf of the individual. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 38-543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-543.Duty to file financial disclosure statement by candidate
for public office
A candidate for public office as specified in section 38541,
paragraph 8 shall file a financial disclosure statement covering the preceding
twelve month period and containing the information described in section 38542 18444 on a form prescribed by the
secretary of state at the time of filing of nomination papers. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 38-544, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-544.Violation; classification
A.Any public officer, local public officer or
candidate who knowingly fails to file a financial disclosure statement required
pursuant to section 38542
18444, 38543
or 38545, who knowingly files an incomplete financial disclosure
statement or who knowingly files a false financial disclosure statement is
guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
B.Any public officer, local public officer or
candidate who violates this chapter is subject to a civil penalty of fifty
dollars for each day of noncompliance but not more than five hundred dollars
that may be imposed as prescribed in section 16924. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 41-121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-121.Duties
A.The secretary of state shall:
1.Receive bills and resolutions from the
legislature, and perform such other duties as devolve upon on
the secretary of state by resolution of the two houses or either of them.
2.Keep a register of and attest the official acts
of the governor.
3.Act as custodian of the great seal of this state.
4.Affix the great seal, with the secretary of
state's attestation, to public instruments to which the official signature of
the governor is attached.
5.File in the secretary of state's office receipts
for all books distributed by the secretary of state and direct the county
recorder of each county to do the same.
6.Certify to the governor the names of those
persons who have received at any election the highest number of votes for any
office, the incumbent of which is commissioned by the governor.
7.Publish slip laws of each act of the legislature
promptly upon on passage and approval of
such act, make such acts available to interested persons for a reasonable fee
to compensate for the cost of printing and provide each house of the legislature
and the legislative council with a certified copy of each bill or resolution,
showing the chapter or resolution number of each, as each is filed in the
secretary of state's office.
8.Keep a fee book of fees and compensation of
whatever kind and nature earned, collected or charged by the secretary of
state, with the date, the name of the payer and the nature of the service in
each case.The fee book shall be verified annually by the secretary
of state's affidavit entered in the fee book.
9.Perform other duties imposed on the secretary of
state by law.
10.Report to the governor on January 2 each year,
and at such other times as provided by law, a detailed account of the secretary
of state's official actions taken since the secretary of state's previous
report together with a detailed statement of the manner in which all
appropriations for the secretary of state's office have been expended.
11.Transfer all noncurrent or inactive books,
records, deeds and other papers otherwise required to be filed with or retained
by the secretary of state to the custody of the Arizona state library, archives
and public records.
12.Make available to the public, without charge,
title 33, chapters 10 and 11 on the secretary of state's website.
13.Accept, and approve for use, electronic and
digital signatures that comply with section 41132 18442, for documents filed with and by
all state agencies, boards and commissions.In consultation with the
department of administration and the state treasurer, the secretary of state
shall adopt rules pursuant to chapter 6 of this title establishing policies and
procedures for the use of electronic and digital signatures by all state
agencies, boards and commissions for documents filed with and by all state
agencies, boards and commissions.
14.Meet at least annually with personnel from the
federal voting assistance office of the United States department of defense and
with county recorders and other county election officials in this state to
coordinate the delivery and return of registrations, ballot requests, voted
ballots and other election materials to and from absent uniformed and overseas
citizens.
B.The secretary of state may refuse to perform a
service or refuse a filing based on a reasonable belief that the service or
filing is being requested for an unlawful, illegitimate, false or fraudulent
purpose or is being requested or submitted in bad faith or for the purpose of
harassing or defrauding a person or entity. This subsection does not apply to
election filings.END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 41-352, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-352.Applicability of article; electronic signature laws
A.Any notarial act in which a person by oath or
affirmation signs a document may be performed electronically as prescribed by
this article if under applicable law that document may be signed with an
electronic signature.
B.Unless otherwise expressly prohibited by law, the
following notarial acts, terms and entities have the same legal effect as those
prescribed by article 2 of this chapter:
1.Electronic acknowledgment as acknowledgment.
2.Electronic oath as oath.
3.Electronic jurat as jurat.
4.Electronic affidavit as affidavit.
5.Electronic notarial act as notarial act.
6.Electronic notarial certificate token as notarial
certificate.
7.Electronic notary as notary.
C.An electronic commission is a commission to
perform only electronic notary acts and only an electronic notary is authorized
to perform electronic notary acts.
D.Unless otherwise expressly prohibited by law, any
electronic notarial act may be performed by either:
1.An act in the presence of an electronic notary as
prescribed by this article.
2.An electronic notarial service as prescribed by
this article for which the person signing appears before an electronic notary
and by oath or affirmation acknowledges that any notary service electronic
document that is created by the person pursuant to this article has the same
legal force and effect as if the person appeared before an electronic notary
and by oath or affirmation executed an electronic notarial act.
E.Section 41132
18442 applies in
conjunction with this article to electronic signatures used by electronic
notaries.
F.This article applies to electronic notarial acts
that are performed by electronic notaries who are appointed in this state and
applies only to their acts performed in the United States. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 41-1277, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1277.Joint legislative budget committee; annual report; debt;
definitions
A.On or before January 31 of each year, the joint
legislative budget committee staff shall present to the appropriations
committees of the senate and the house of representatives a report on state
debt and obligations, including:
1.Outstanding general obligation bonds.
2.Longterm notes and obligations.
3.Certificates of participation and other
obligations pursuant to any leasepurchase agreements.
4.Revenue bonds.
5.Deferred rollover payment obligations.
B.The report shall contain, for the most recent
fiscal year:
1.The statewide aggregate level of outstanding
principal and the principal and interest payments, by type of debt or
obligation. The report shall be based on data available from the searchable
database required by section 414604
18304.
2.Itemization, by budget unit, of the original due
date of each deferred payment for deferred rollover payment obligations, the
amount of interest paid to date due to the deferral and the amount of yearly
interest to be paid in the most recent and the next fiscal year due to the
deferral.
3.Information on per capita state debt and
obligations.
4.Information on the ten year history of state debt
and obligations based on available data.
C.The report and a link to the searchable database
required by section 414604
18304 shall be
posted on the joint legislative budget committee's website, and a copy of the
report shall be provided to any member of the public who makes a request.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Deferred rollover payment obligation" means
an obligation to make a payment in a fiscal year that was due in and deferred
from a previous fiscal year.
2."State debt and obligations" means debt
and obligations whose principal or interest is paid with state funds. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 41-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1504.Powers and duties; e-verify requirement
A.The board of directors, on behalf of the authority,
may:
1.Adopt and use a corporate seal.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Enter into contracts as necessary to carry out
the purposes and requirements of this chapter, including intergovernmental
agreements pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 and interagency service
agreements as provided by section 35148.
4.Lease real property and improvements to real
property for the purposes of the authority. Leases by the authority are exempt
from chapter 4, article 7 of this title, relating to management of state
properties.
5.Employ or retain legal counsel and other
consultants as necessary to carry out the purposes of the authority.
6.Develop and use written policies, procedures and
guidelines for the terms and conditions of employing officers and employees of
the authority and may include background checks of appropriate personnel.
B.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, shall:
1.Develop comprehensive long-range strategic
economic plans for this state and submit the plans to the governor.
2.Annually update a strategic economic plan for
submission to the governor.
3.Accept gifts, grants and loans and enter into
contracts and other transactions with any federal or state agency,
municipality, private organization or other source.
C.The authority shall:
1.Assess and collect fees for processing
applications and administering incentives. The board shall adopt the manner of
computing the amount of each fee to be assessed. Within thirty days after
proposing fees for adoption, the chief executive officer shall submit a
schedule of the fees for review by the joint legislative budget committee. It
is the intent of the legislature that a fee shall not exceed one per cent percent of the amount of the incentive.
2.Determine and collect registry fees for the
administration of the allocation of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Such monies
collected by the authority shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in an authority bond fund. Monies in the fund shall be used,
subject to annual appropriation by the legislature, by the authority to
administer the allocations provided in this paragraph and are exempt from the
provisions of section 35190 relating to the lapsing of appropriations.
3.Determine and collect security deposits for the
allocation, for the extension of allocations and for the difference between
allocations and principal amounts of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Security deposits
forfeited to the authority shall be deposited in the state general fund.
4.At the direction of the board, establish and
supervise the operations of full-time or part-time offices in other states and
foreign countries for the purpose of expanding direct investment and export
trade opportunities for businesses and industries in this state if, based on
objective research, the authority determines that the effort would be
beneficial to the economy of this state.
5.Establish a program by which entrepreneurs become
aware of permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to establish, expand
or operate in this state.
6.Be the state registration agency for
apprenticeship functions prescribed by the federal government.
D.The authority, through the chief executive
officer, may:
1.Contract and incur obligations reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of the authority's activities
and operations to enable the authority to adequately perform its duties.
2.Use monies, facilities or services to provide
matching contributions under federal or other programs that further the
objectives and programs of the authority.
3.Accept gifts, grants, matching monies or direct
payments from public or private agencies or private persons and enterprises for
the conduct of programs that are consistent with the general purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
4.Assess business fees for promotional services
provided to businesses that export products and services from this state. The
fees shall not exceed the actual costs of the services provided.
5.Establish and maintain one or more accounts in
banks or other depositories, for public or private monies of the authority,
from which operational activities, including payroll, vendor and grant
payments, may be conducted. Individual funds that are established by law under
the jurisdiction of the authority may be maintained in separate accounts in
banks or other depositories, but shall not be commingled with any other monies
or funds of the authority.
E.The chief executive officer shall:
1.Hire employees and prescribe the terms and
conditions of their employment as necessary to carry out the purposes of the
authority. The board of directors shall adopt written policies, procedures and
guidelines, similar to those adopted by the department of administration,
regarding officer and employee compensation, observed holidays, leave and
reimbursement of travel expenses and health and accident insurance.The
officers and employees of the authority are exempt from any laws regulating
state employment, including:
(a)Chapter 4, articles 5 and 6 of this title,
relating to state service.
(b)Title 38, chapter 4, article 1 and chapter 5,
article 2, relating to state personnel compensation, leave and retirement.
(c)Title 38, chapter 4, article 2, relating to
reimbursement of state employee expenses.
(d)Title 38, chapter 4, article 4, relating to
health and accident insurance.
2.On a quarterly basis, provide public record data
in a manner prescribed by the department of administration related to the
authority's revenues and expenditures for inclusion in the comprehensive
database of receipts and expenditures of state monies pursuant to section 41725.
F.In addition to any other requirement, in order to
qualify for any grant, loan, reimbursement, tax incentive or other economic
development incentive pursuant to this chapter, an applicant that is an
employer must register with and participate in the e-verify program in
compliance with section 23214. The authority shall require verification
of compliance with this subsection as part of any application process.
G.Notwithstanding any other law, the authority is
subject to chapter 3.1, article 1 of this title, relating to risk management.
H.The authority is exempt from title 18, chapter 32 1,
articles 1 and 2 of this title,
relating to statewide information technology. The authority shall adopt
policies, procedures and guidelines regarding information technology.
I.The authority is exempt from state general
accounting and finance practices and rules adopted pursuant to chapter 4,
article 3 of this title, but the board shall adopt written accounting
practices, systems and procedures for the economic and efficient operation of
the authority.
J.The authority is exempt from section 41712,
relating to the installation and maintenance of telecommunications telecommunication systems.
K.The authority may lease or purchase motor
vehicles for use by employees to conduct business activities. The authority is
exempt from section 41803, relating to the state motor vehicle fleet,
and title 38, chapter 3, article 10, relating to vehicle usage and markings.
L.Any tangible or intangible record submitted to or
compiled by the board or the authority in connection with its work, including
the award of monies, is subject to title 39, chapter 1, unless an applicant
shows, or the board or authority determines, that specific information meets
either of the following:
1.If made public, the information would divulge the
applicant's or potential applicant's trade secrets, as defined in section 44401.
2.If made public, the information could potentially
harm the applicant's, the potential
applicant's or this state's competitive position relating to potential business
development opportunities and strategies.
M.The authority is exempt from chapter 25, article
1 of this title, relating to government competition with private enterprise. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 41-2513, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2513.Authority to contract for certain services
A.For the purpose of procuring the services of
clergy, certified public accountants, legal counsel pursuant to section 41192,
subsection D, physicians or dentists as defined by the laws of this state, any
state governmental unit may act as a purchasing agency and contract on its own
behalf for such services, subject to this chapter and rules adopted by the
director.
B.In accordance with the provisions of section 41192,
subsection D and notwithstanding any contrary statute, no contract for the
services of legal counsel may be awarded without the approval of the attorney
general.
C.The auditor general shall approve state agency
contracting for financial and compliance auditing services except if specific
statutory authority is otherwise provided. The auditor general shall ensure
that such contract audits are conducted in accordance with generally accepted
governmental auditing standards. An audit shall not be accepted until it has
been approved by the auditor general.
D.The department may approve all information
technology purchases exceeding twentyfive thousand dollars for a budget
unit as defined in section 41350118101. Purchases shall
not be artificially divided to avoid review.
E.Payment for any services, including those
services described in subsections A, B and C of this section, procured under this
chapter shall not be made unless pursuant to a fully approved written contract.
END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 41-3016.06, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3016.06.Department of administration; termination July 1, 2016
A.The department of administration terminates on
July 1, 2016.
B.title 18,
chapter 1 and title 41, chapter 4, articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 and chapter 32 are repealed on
January 1, 2017. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 44-7011, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7011.Notarization; acknowledgment
Notwithstanding title 41, chapter 2, article 2, if the law
requires a signature or record to be notarized, acknowledged, verified or made
under oath, that requirement is satisfied if a notary completes a notarial act
on the electronic message or document. That notarial act on the electronic
message or document is complete without the imprint of the notary's seal if all
of the following apply:
1.The electronic message or document is signed
pursuant to this chapter or section 41-132
18442 in the
presence of a notary.
2.The notary confirms that the electronic signature
on the electronic message or document is verifiably the electronic signature
issued to the signer pursuant to this chapter or section 41-132 18442.
3.The notary electronically signs with an electronic
signature that is consistent with this chapter, any electronic notary law title 41, chapter 2, article 3 or any other
applicable law.
4.The following information appears electronically
within the message electronically signed by the notary:
(a)The notary's full name and commission number
exactly as it appears on the notary's commission.
(b)The words "electronic notary public",
"state of Arizona" and "my commission expires on (date)".
(c)The address of the notary's principal place of
contact exactly as it appears on the notary's commission.
(d)The notary's e-mail or other electronic address
exactly as it appears on the notary's commission.END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 44-7041, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7041.Creation; retention; conversion of written records
A.Each governmental agency shall determine if, and
the extent to which, the governmental agency will create and retain electronic
records and convert written records to electronic records. Any governmental
agency that is subject to the management, preservation, determination of value
and disposition of records requirements prescribed in sections 41151.12,
41151.13, 41151.14, 41151.15, 41151.16, 41151.17,
41151.18 and 41151.19 and the permanent public records
requirements prescribed in section 39-101 shall comply with those requirements.
B.State agencies shall comply with the standards
adopted by the department of administration pursuant to title 41 18,
chapter 32 1.
C.All governmental agencies shall comply with the
policies that are established by the secretary of state pursuant to section 41-132 18442 and that apply to the use of
electronic signatures. END_STATUTE 
Sec.29.Section 44-7042, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7042.Sending and accepting electronic records
A.Except as otherwise provided in section 44-7012,
subsection E, each governmental agency shall determine if, and the extent to
which, the governmental agency will send and accept electronic records and
electronic signatures to and from other persons and otherwise create, generate,
communicate, store, process, use and rely on electronic records and electronic
signatures. State agencies shall comply with the appropriate standards and
policies adopted or established by the department of administration pursuant to
title 41 18, chapter 32 1 and
the secretary of state pursuant to section 41132 18442.
B.To the extent that a governmental agency uses
electronic records and electronic signatures pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the governmental agency after giving due consideration to security may
specify:
1.The manner and format in which the electronic
records must be created, generated, sent, communicated, received and stored and
the systems established for those purposes.
2.If electronic records must be signed by
electronic means, the type of electronic signature required, the manner and
format in which the electronic signature must be affixed to the electronic
record and the identity of or criteria that must be met by any third party used
by a person filing a document to facilitate the process.
3.Control processes and procedures as appropriate
to ensure adequate preservation, disposition, integrity, security,
confidentiality and ability to perform audits of electronic records.
4.Any other required attributes for electronic
records that are specified for corresponding nonelectronic records or that are
reasonably necessary under the circumstances.
C.Except as otherwise provided in section 447012,
subsection E, this chapter does not require a governmental agency to use or
allow the use of electronic records or electronic signatures.END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section
47-9525, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE47-9525.Fees
A.Except as
otherwise provided in subsection E of this section and except for a filing
office described in section 479501, subsection A, paragraph 1, the fee
for filing and indexing a record under this article, other than an initial
financing statement of the kind described in section 479502, subsection
C, is not more than nine dollars as provided in sections 18441 and 41126 and 41127, if the record is communicated
in writing or by any other medium authorized by filing office rule.
B.Except as otherwise provided in subsection E of
this section, the fee for filing and indexing an initial financing statement of
the kind described in section 479502, subsection C is not more than nine
dollars as provided in sections 18441
and 41126 and 41127
if the financing statement indicates that it is filed in connection with a
manufactured home transaction.
C.The number of names required to be indexed does
not affect the amount of the fee in subsections A and B of this section.
D.The fee for responding to a request for
information from the filing office, including for issuing a certificate showing
whether there is on file any financing statement naming a particular debtor, is
not more than nine dollars as provided in sections 18441 and 41126 and 41127 if the request is communicated
in writing or by any other medium authorized by filing office rule.
E.This section does not require a fee with respect
to a record of a mortgage that is effective as a financing statement filed as a
fixture filing or as a financing statement covering asextracted
collateral or timber to be cut under section 479502, subsection
C.However, the recording and satisfaction fees that otherwise would
be applicable to the record of the mortgage apply.
F.The filing fee for filing, indexing and
furnishing filing data about a statement of master amendment pursuant to
section 479512, subsection F or master assignment pursuant to section 479514,
subsection D is not more than four hundred fifty dollars plus fifty cents for
each financing statement covered by the master statement in excess of fifty
financing statements.END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Laws 2006,
chapter 232, section 3 is amended to read:
Sec. 3.Conditional repeal; notice
A.Title 44, chapter 32 section 18-545, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, is repealed
one year after the effective date of the federal personal data privacy and
security act.
B.The attorney general
shall notify in writing the director of the Arizona legislative council of this
date.

