



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: DPS; schools; clearance cards;
  notifications







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2034









Introduced by
Representative
  Borrelli





AN ACT

amending section
411750, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the department of public
safety.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1750, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1750.Central state repository; department of public safety;
duties; funds; accounts; definitions
A.The department is
responsible for the effective operation of the central state repository in
order to collect, store and disseminate complete and accurate Arizona criminal
history records and related criminal justice information. The department
shall:
1.Procure from all
criminal justice agencies in this state accurate and complete personal
identification data, fingerprints, charges, process control numbers and
dispositions and such other information as may be pertinent to all persons who
have been charged with, arrested for, convicted of or summoned to court as a
criminal defendant for a felony offense or an offense involving domestic
violence as defined in section 133601 or a violation of title 13,
chapter 14 or title 28, chapter 4.
2.Collect information
concerning the number and nature of offenses known to have been committed in
this state and of the legal steps taken in connection with these offenses, such
other information that is useful in the study of crime and in the
administration of criminal justice and all other information deemed necessary
to operate the statewide uniform crime reporting program and to cooperate with
the federal government uniform crime reporting program.
3.Collect information
concerning criminal offenses that manifest evidence of prejudice based on race,
color, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender or disability.
4.Cooperate with the
central state repositories in other states and with the appropriate agency of
the federal government in the exchange of information pertinent to violators of
the law.
5.Ensure the rapid
exchange of information concerning the commission of crime and the detection of
violators of the law among the criminal justice agencies of other states and of
the federal government.
6.Furnish assistance to
peace officers throughout this state in crime scene investigation for the
detection of latent fingerprints and in the comparison of latent fingerprints.
7.Conduct periodic
operational audits of the central state repository and of a representative
sample of other agencies that contribute records to or receive criminal justice
information from the central state repository or through the Arizona criminal
justice information system.
8.Establish and enforce
the necessary physical and system safeguards to ensure that the criminal
justice information maintained and disseminated by the central state repository
or through the Arizona criminal justice information system is appropriately
protected from unauthorized inquiry, modification, destruction or dissemination
as required by this section.
9.Aid and encourage
coordination and cooperation among criminal justice agencies through the
statewide and interstate exchange of criminal justice information.
10.Provide training and
proficiency testing on the use of criminal justice information to agencies
receiving information from the central state repository or through the Arizona
criminal justice information system.
11.Operate and maintain
the Arizona automated fingerprint identification system established by section
412411.
12.Provide criminal
history record information to the fingerprinting division for the purpose of
screening applicants for fingerprint clearance cards.
B.The director may
establish guidelines for the submission and retention of criminal justice
information as deemed useful for the study or prevention of crime and for the
administration of criminal justice.
C.The chief officers of
criminal justice agencies of this state or its political subdivisions shall
provide to the central state repository fingerprints and information concerning
personal identification data, descriptions, crimes for which persons are
arrested, process control numbers and dispositions and such other information
as may be pertinent to all persons who have been charged with, arrested for,
convicted of or summoned to court as criminal defendants for felony offenses or
offenses involving domestic violence as defined in section 133601 or
violations of title 13, chapter 14 or title 28, chapter 4 that have occurred in
this state.
D.The chief officers of
law enforcement agencies of this state or its political subdivisions shall
provide to the department such information as necessary to operate the
statewide uniform crime reporting program and to cooperate with the federal
government uniform crime reporting program.
E.The chief officers of
criminal justice agencies of this state or its political subdivisions shall
comply with the training and proficiency testing guidelines as required by the
department to comply with the federal national crime information center
mandates.
F.The chief officers of
criminal justice agencies of this state or its political subdivisions also
shall provide to the department information concerning crimes that manifest
evidence of prejudice based on race, color, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender or disability.
G.The director shall
authorize the exchange of criminal justice information between the central
state repository, or through the Arizona criminal justice information system,
whether directly or through any intermediary, only as follows:
1.With criminal justice
agencies of the federal government, Indian tribes, this state or its political
subdivisions and other states, on request by the chief officers of such
agencies or their designated representatives, specifically for the purposes of
the administration of criminal justice and for evaluating the fitness of
current and prospective criminal justice employees.
2.With any noncriminal
justice agency pursuant to a statute, ordinance or executive order that
specifically authorizes the noncriminal justice agency to receive criminal
history record information for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of current
or prospective licensees, employees, contract employees or volunteers, on
submission of the subject's fingerprints and the prescribed fee. Each statute,
ordinance, or executive order that authorizes noncriminal justice agencies to
receive criminal history record information for these purposes shall identify
the specific categories of licensees, employees, contract employees or
volunteers, and shall require that fingerprints of the specified individuals be
submitted in conjunction with such requests for criminal history record
information.
3.With the board of
fingerprinting for the purpose of conducting good cause exceptions pursuant to
section 41619.55 and central registry exceptions pursuant to section 41619.57.
4.With any individual for
any lawful purpose on submission of the subject of record's fingerprints and
the prescribed fee.
5.With the governor, if
the governor elects to become actively involved in the investigation of
criminal activity or the administration of criminal justice in accordance with
the governor's constitutional duty to ensure that the laws are faithfully
executed or as needed to carry out the other responsibilities of the governor's
office.
6.With regional computer
centers that maintain authorized computertocomputer interfaces
with the department, that are criminal justice agencies or under the management
control of a criminal justice agency and that are established by a statute,
ordinance or executive order to provide automated data processing services to
criminal justice agencies specifically for the purposes of the administration
of criminal justice or evaluating the fitness of regional computer center employees
who have access to the Arizona criminal justice information system and the
national crime information center system.
7.With an individual who
asserts a belief that criminal history record information relating to the
individual is maintained by an agency or in an information system in this state
that is subject to this section. On submission of fingerprints, the individual
may review this information for the purpose of determining its accuracy and
completeness by making application to the agency operating the system. Rules
adopted under this section shall include provisions for administrative review
and necessary correction of any inaccurate or incomplete
information.The review and challenge process authorized by this
paragraph is limited to criminal history record information.
8.With individuals and
agencies pursuant to a specific agreement with a criminal justice agency to
provide services required for the administration of criminal justice pursuant
to that agreement if the agreement specifically authorizes access to data,
limits the use of data to purposes for which given and ensures the security and
confidentiality of the data consistent with this section.
9.With individuals and
agencies for the express purpose of research, evaluative or statistical
activities pursuant to an agreement with a criminal justice agency if the
agreement specifically authorizes access to data, limits the use of data to
research, evaluative or statistical purposes and ensures the confidentiality
and security of the data consistent with this section.
10.With the auditor
general for audit purposes.
11.With central state
repositories of other states for noncriminal justice purposes for dissemination
in accordance with the laws of those states.
12.On submission of the
fingerprint card, with the department of child safety and a tribal social
services agency to provide criminal history record information on prospective
adoptive parents for the purpose of conducting the preadoption certification
investigation under title 8, chapter 1, article 1 if the department of economic
security is conducting the investigation, or with an agency or a person
appointed by the court, if the agency or person is conducting the
investigation.Information received under this paragraph shall only
be used for the purposes of the preadoption certification investigation.
13.With the department of
child safety, a tribal social services agency and the superior court for the
purpose of evaluating the fitness of custodians or prospective custodians of
juveniles, including parents, relatives and prospective
guardians.Information received under this paragraph shall only be
used for the purposes of that evaluation.The information shall be
provided on submission of either:
(a)The fingerprint card.
(b)The name, date of
birth and social security number of the person.
14.On submission of a
fingerprint card, provide criminal history record information to the superior
court for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of investigators appointed under
section 145303 or 145407, guardians appointed under section 145206
or 145304 or conservators appointed under section 145401.
15.With the supreme court
to provide criminal history record information on prospective fiduciaries
pursuant to section 145651.
16.With the department of
juvenile corrections to provide criminal history record information pursuant to
section 412814.
17.On submission of the
fingerprint card, provide criminal history record information to the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board or a board certified law enforcement
academy to evaluate the fitness of prospective cadets.
18.With the internet sex
offender web site database established pursuant to section 133827.
19.With licensees of the
United States nuclear regulatory commission for the purpose of determining
whether an individual should be granted unescorted access to the protected area
of a commercial nuclear generating station on submission of the subject of
record's fingerprints and the prescribed fee.
20.With the state board
of education for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of a certificated
teacher or administrator or an applicant for a teaching or an administrative
certificate provided that the state board of education or its employees or agents
have reasonable suspicion that the certificated person engaged in conduct that
would be a criminal violation of the laws of this state or was involved in
immoral or unprofessional conduct or that the applicant engaged in conduct that
would warrant disciplinary action if the applicant were certificated at the
time of the alleged conduct. The information shall be provided on the
submission of either:
(a)The fingerprint card.
(b)The name, date of birth and social security
number of the person.
21.With each school district and charter school in
this state. The state board of education and the state board for charter
schools shall provide the department of public safety with a current list of email
addresses for each school district and charter school in this state and shall
periodically provide the department of public safety with updated email
addresses.If the department of public safety is notified that a
person who is required to have a fingerprint clearance card to be employed by
or to engage in volunteer activities at a school district or charter school has
been arrested for or convicted of an offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B or c or section 411758.07,
subsection B or C or has been arrested for or convicted of an
offense that amounts to unprofessional conduct under section 15550, the
department of public safety shall notify each school district and charter
school in this state that the person's fingerprint clearance card has been
suspended or revoked.
22.With a tribal social services agency and the
department of child safety as provided by law, which currently is the Adam
Walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 United States Code section
16961), for the purposes of investigating or responding to reports of child abuse,
neglect or exploitation. Information received pursuant to this paragraph from
the national crime information center, the interstate identification index and
the Arizona criminal justice information system network shall only be used for
the purposes of investigating or responding as prescribed in this
paragraph.The information shall be provided on submission to the
department of public safety of either:
(a)The fingerprints of the person being
investigated.
(b)The name, date of birth and social security
number of the person.
23.With a nonprofit organization that interacts
with children or vulnerable adults for the lawful purpose of evaluating the
fitness of all current and prospective employees, contractors and volunteers of
the organization. The criminal history record information shall be provided on
submission of the applicant fingerprint card and the prescribed fee.
24.With the superior court for the purpose of
determining an individual's eligibility for substance abuse and treatment
courts in a family or juvenile case.
H.The director shall adopt rules necessary to
execute this section.
I.The director, in the manner prescribed by law,
shall remove and destroy records that the director determines are no longer of
value in the detection or prevention of crime.
J.The director shall
establish a fee in an amount necessary to cover the cost of federal noncriminal
justice fingerprint processing for criminal history record information checks
that are authorized by law for noncriminal justice employment, licensing or
other lawful purposes. An additional fee may be charged by the department for
state noncriminal justice fingerprint processing. Fees submitted to the
department for state noncriminal justice fingerprint processing are not refundable.
K.The director shall
establish a fee in an amount necessary to cover the cost of processing copies
of department reports, eight by ten inch black and white photographs or eight
by ten inch color photographs of traffic accident scenes.
L.Except as provided in
subsection O of this section, each agency authorized by this section may charge
a fee, in addition to any other fees prescribed by law, in an amount necessary
to cover the cost of state and federal noncriminal justice fingerprint
processing for criminal history record information checks that are authorized
by law for noncriminal justice employment, licensing or other lawful purposes.
M.A fingerprint account
within the records processing fund is established for the purpose of separately
accounting for the collection and payment of fees for noncriminal justice
fingerprint processing by the department.Monies collected for this
purpose shall be credited to the account, and payments by the department to the
United States for federal noncriminal justice fingerprint processing shall be
charged against the account. Monies in the account not required for payment to
the United States shall be used by the department in support of the
department's noncriminal justice fingerprint processing duties. At the end of
each fiscal year, any balance in the account not required for payment to the
United States or to support the department's noncriminal justice fingerprint
processing duties reverts to the state general fund.
N.A records processing
fund is established for the purpose of separately accounting for the collection
and payment of fees for department reports and photographs of traffic accident
scenes processed by the department. Monies collected for this purpose shall be
credited to the fund and shall be used by the department in support of
functions related to providing copies of department reports and photographs.
At the end of each fiscal year, any balance in the fund not required for
support of the functions related to providing copies of department reports and
photographs reverts to the state general fund.
O.The department of child
safety may pay from appropriated monies the cost of federal fingerprint
processing or federal criminal history record information checks that are
authorized by law for employees and volunteers of the department, guardians
pursuant to section 8453, subsection A, paragraph 6, the licensing of
foster parents or the certification of adoptive parents.
P.The director shall
adopt rules that provide for:
1.The collection and disposition
of fees pursuant to this section.
2.The refusal of service
to those agencies that are delinquent in paying these fees.
Q.The director shall
ensure that the following limitations are observed regarding dissemination of
criminal justice information obtained from the central state repository or
through the Arizona criminal justice information system:
1.Any criminal justice
agency that obtains criminal justice information from the central state
repository or through the Arizona criminal justice information system assumes
responsibility for the security of the information and shall not secondarily
disseminate this information to any individual or agency not authorized to
receive this information directly from the central state repository or originating
agency.
2.Dissemination to an
authorized agency or individual may be accomplished by a criminal justice
agency only if the dissemination is for criminal justice purposes in connection
with the prescribed duties of the agency and not in violation of this section.
3.Criminal history record
information disseminated to noncriminal justice agencies or to individuals
shall be used only for the purposes for which it was
given.Secondary dissemination is prohibited unless otherwise
authorized by law.
4.The existence or
nonexistence of criminal history record information shall not be confirmed to
any individual or agency not authorized to receive the information itself.
5.Criminal history record
information to be released for noncriminal justice purposes to agencies of
other states shall only be released to the central state repositories of those
states for dissemination in accordance with the laws of those states.
6.Criminal history record
information shall be released to noncriminal justice agencies of the federal
government pursuant to the terms of the federal security clearance information
act (P.L. 99169).
R.This section and the
rules adopted under this section apply to all agencies and individuals
collecting, storing or disseminating criminal justice information processed by
manual or automated operations if the collection, storage or dissemination is
funded in whole or in part with monies made available by the law enforcement
assistance administration after July 1, 1973, pursuant to title I of the crime
control act of 1973, and to all agencies that interact with or receive criminal
justice information from or through the central state repository and through
the Arizona criminal justice information system.
S.This section does not
apply to criminal history record information contained in:
1.Posters, arrest
warrants, announcements or lists for identifying or apprehending fugitives or
wanted persons.
2.Original records of
entry such as police blotters maintained by criminal justice agencies, compiled
chronologically and required by law or longstanding custom to be made
public if these records are organized on a chronological basis.
3.Transcripts or records
of judicial proceedings if released by a court or legislative or administrative
proceedings.
4.Announcements of
executive clemency or pardon.
5.Computer databases,
other than the Arizona criminal justice information system, that are
specifically designed for community notification of an offender's presence in
the community pursuant to section 133825 or for public informational
purposes authorized by section 133827.
T.Nothing in this section
prevents a criminal justice agency from disclosing to the public criminal
history record information that is reasonably contemporaneous to the event for
which an individual is currently within the criminal justice system, including
information noted on traffic accident reports concerning citations, blood
alcohol tests or arrests made in connection with the traffic accident being
investigated.
U.In order to ensure that
complete and accurate criminal history record information is maintained and
disseminated by the central state repository:
1.The arresting authority
shall take legible tenprint fingerprints of all persons who are arrested
for offenses listed in subsection C of this section including persons who are
arrested and released pursuant to section 133903, subsection C. The
arresting authority may transfer an arrestee to a booking agency for ten-print
fingerprinting.If the booking agency cannot determine whether
legible tenprint fingerprints were taken from the arrestee, the booking
agency shall take the arrestee's tenprint fingerprints.The
arresting authority or booking agency shall obtain a process control number and
provide to the person fingerprinted a document that indicates proof of the
fingerprinting and that informs the person that the document must be presented
to the court.
2.The mandatory
fingerprint compliance form shall contain the following information:
(a)Whether ten-print
fingerprints have been obtained from the person.
(b)Whether a process
control number was obtained.
(c)The offense or
offenses for which the process control number was obtained.
(d)Any report number of
the arresting authority.
(e)Instructions on
reporting for ten-print fingerprinting, including available times and locations
for reporting for tenprint fingerprinting.
(f)Instructions that
direct the person to provide the form to the court at the person's next court
appearance.
3.Within ten days after a
person is fingerprinted, the arresting authority or agency that took the
fingerprints shall forward the fingerprints to the department in the manner or
form required by the department.
4.On the issuance of a
summons for a defendant who is charged with an offense listed in subsection C
of this section, the summons shall direct the defendant to provide tenprint
fingerprints to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
5.At the initial
appearance or on the arraignment of a summoned defendant who is charged with an
offense listed in subsection C of this section, if the person does not present
a completed mandatory fingerprint compliance form to the court or if the court
has not received the process control number, the court shall order that within
twenty calendar days the defendant be ten-print fingerprinted at a designated
time and place by the appropriate law enforcement agency.
6.If the defendant fails
to present a completed mandatory fingerprint compliance form or if the court
has not received the process control number, the court, on its own motion, may
remand the defendant into custody for tenprint fingerprinting. If
otherwise eligible for release, the defendant shall be released from custody
after being tenprint fingerprinted.
7.In every criminal case
in which the defendant is incarcerated or fingerprinted as a result of the
charge, an originating law enforcement agency or prosecutor, within forty days
of the disposition, shall advise the central state repository of all
dispositions concerning the termination of criminal proceedings against an
individual arrested for an offense specified in subsection C of this section.
This information shall be submitted on a form or in a manner required by the
department.
8.Dispositions resulting
from formal proceedings in a court having jurisdiction in a criminal action
against an individual who is arrested for an offense specified in subsection C
of this section or section 8341, subsection V, paragraph 3 shall be
reported to the central state repository within forty days of the date of the
disposition. This information shall be submitted on a form or in a manner
specified by rules approved by the supreme court.
9.The state department of
corrections or the department of juvenile corrections, within forty days, shall
advise the central state repository that it has assumed supervision of a person
convicted of an offense specified in subsection C of this section or section 8341,
subsection V, paragraph 3. The state department of corrections or the
department of juvenile corrections shall also report dispositions that occur
thereafter to the central state repository within forty days of the date of the
dispositions.This information shall be submitted on a form or in a
manner required by the department of public safety.
10.Each criminal justice
agency shall query the central state repository before dissemination of any
criminal history record information to ensure the completeness of the
information. Inquiries shall be made before any dissemination except in those
cases in which time is of the essence and the repository is technically
incapable of responding within the necessary time period.If time is
of the essence, the inquiry shall still be made and the response shall be
provided as soon as possible.
V.The director shall
adopt rules specifying that any agency that collects, stores or disseminates
criminal justice information that is subject to this section shall establish
effective security measures to protect the information from unauthorized
access, disclosure, modification or dissemination. The rules shall include
reasonable safeguards to protect the affected information systems from fire,
flood, wind, theft, sabotage or other natural or manmade hazards or
disasters.
W.The department shall
make available to agencies that contribute to, or receive criminal justice
information from, the central state repository or through the Arizona criminal
justice information system a continuing training program in the proper methods
for collecting, storing and disseminating information in compliance with this
section.
X.Nothing in this section
creates a cause of action or a right to bring an action including an action
based on discrimination due to sexual orientation.
Y.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Administration of
criminal justice" means performance of the detection, apprehension,
detention, pretrial release, posttrial release, prosecution, adjudication,
correctional supervision or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.Administration
of criminal justice includes enforcement of criminal traffic offenses and civil
traffic violations, including parking violations, when performed by a criminal
justice agency.Administration of criminal justice also includes
criminal identification activities and the collection, storage and
dissemination of criminal history record information.
2."Administrative
records" means records that contain adequate and proper documentation of
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures and essential
transactions of the agency and that are designed to furnish information to
protect the rights of this state and of persons directly affected by the
agency's activities.
3."Arizona criminal
justice information system" or "system" means the statewide information
system managed by the director for the collection, processing, preservation,
dissemination and exchange of criminal justice information and includes the
electronic equipment, facilities, procedures and agreements necessary to
exchange this information.
4."Central state
repository" means the central location within the department for the
collection, storage and dissemination of Arizona criminal history records and
related criminal justice information.
5."Criminal history
record information" and "criminal history record" means
information that is collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals and
that consists of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests,
detentions, indictments and other formal criminal charges, and any disposition
arising from those actions, sentencing, formal correctional supervisory action
and release.Criminal history record information and criminal
history record do not include identification information to the extent that the
information does not indicate involvement of the individual in the criminal
justice system or information relating to juveniles unless they have been
adjudicated as adults.
6."Criminal justice
agency" means either:
(a)A court at any
governmental level with criminal or equivalent jurisdiction, including courts
of any foreign sovereignty duly recognized by the federal government.
(b)A government agency or
subunit of a government agency that is specifically authorized to perform as
its principal function the administration of criminal justice pursuant to a
statute, ordinance or executive order and that allocates more than fifty
percent of its annual budget to the administration of criminal justice. This
subdivision includes agencies of any foreign sovereignty duly recognized by the
federal government.
7."Criminal justice
information" means information that is collected by criminal justice
agencies and that is needed for the performance of their legally authorized and
required functions, such as criminal history record information, citation
information, stolen property information, traffic accident reports, wanted
persons information and system network log searches. Criminal justice
information does not include the administrative records of a criminal justice
agency.
8."Disposition"
means information disclosing that a decision has been made not to bring
criminal charges or that criminal proceedings have been concluded or
information relating to sentencing, correctional supervision, release from
correctional supervision, the outcome of an appellate review of criminal
proceedings or executive clemency.
9."Dissemination"
means the written, oral or electronic communication or transfer of criminal
justice information to individuals and agencies other than the criminal justice
agency that maintains the information. Dissemination includes the act of
confirming the existence or nonexistence of criminal justice information.
10."Management
control":
(a)Means the authority to
set and enforce:
(i)Priorities regarding
development and operation of criminal justice information systems and programs.
(ii)Standards for the
selection, supervision and termination of personnel involved in the development
of criminal justice information systems and programs and in the collection,
maintenance, analysis and dissemination of criminal justice information.
(iii)Policies governing
the operation of computers, circuits and telecommunications terminals used to
process criminal justice information to the extent that the equipment is used
to process, store or transmit criminal justice information.
(b)Includes the
supervision of equipment, systems design, programming and operating procedures
necessary for the development and implementation of automated criminal justice
information systems.
11."Process control
number" means the Arizona automated fingerprint identification system
number that attaches to each arrest event at the time of fingerprinting and
that is assigned to the arrest fingerprint card, disposition form and other
pertinent documents.
12."Secondary
dissemination" means the dissemination of criminal justice information
from an individual or agency that originally obtained the information from the
central state repository or through the Arizona criminal justice information
system to another individual or agency.
13."Sexual
orientation" means consensual homosexuality or heterosexuality.
14."Subject of
record" means the person who is the primary subject of a criminal justice
record. END_STATUTE

