



PREFILED JAN 04 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: taxes; payment; condemned property







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2028









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

amending sections
9404, 11260, 121126, 15341, 151444, 37804,
4217153 and 48248, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
government property.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-404, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-404.Payment of outstanding taxes, penalties and interest on
acquiring property; limitation
A.If a city or town acquires real or personal property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise,
the city or town shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property
that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and
interest.
B.if a city
or town acquires real or personal property by condemnation, the city or town is
not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and interest in an amount that
exceeds the fair market value of the property interest acquired by the city or
town.
B.C.The
lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired
by a city or town:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of the city or town if the city
or town has paid the unpaid taxes, penalties and interest as required by this
section.END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Section 11-260, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-260.Payment of outstanding taxes, penalties and interest on
acquiring property; limitation
A.If a county acquires real or personal property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise,
the board of supervisors shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the
property that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties
and interest.
B.if a
county acquires real or personal property by condemnation, the board of
supervisors is not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and interest in an
amount that exceeds the fair market value of the property interest acquired by
the county.
B.C.The
lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired
by a county:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of the county if the county has
paid the unpaid taxes, penalties and interest as required by this section.
END_STATUTE 
Sec.3.Section 12-1126, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1126.Final order of condemnation; recording; vesting of
property
A.When the final judgment has been satisfied and
all unpaid property taxes which that were levied as of the
date of the order for immediate possession, including penalties and interest,
on the property that is the subject of the condemnation action have been paid,
the court shall make a final order of condemnation, describing that describes the property condemned and the
purposes of the condemnation.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, if the fair market value of the property interest
that is the subject of the condemnation is less than the amount of unpaid
property taxes, penalties and interest, on a showing that the condemning
authority has paid the county treasurer for unpaid taxes, penalties and
interest in an amount that is equal to the fair market value of the property
interest that is the subject of the condemnation, the court shall make a final
order of condemnation that describes the property condemned and the purposes of
the condemnation.
B.C.A
copy of the order shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder of the
county or counties in which the property is located, and thereupon the property
described shall vest in plaintiff for the purposes therein specified in the order. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 15-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-341.General powers and duties; immunity; delegation
A.The governing board shall:
1.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures for
the governance of the schools, not inconsistent with law or rules prescribed by
the state board of education.
2.Exclude from schools all books, publications,
papers or audiovisual materials of a sectarian, partisan or denominational
character.This paragraph shall
not be construed to does
not prohibit the elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
3.Manage and control the school property within its
district.
4.Acquire school furniture, apparatus, equipment,
library books and supplies for the use of the schools.
5.Prescribe the curricula and criteria for the
promotion and graduation of pupils as provided in sections 15701 and 15701.01.
6.Furnish, repair and insure, at full insurable
value, the school property of the district.
7.Construct school buildings on approval by a vote
of the district electors.
8.Make in the name of the district conveyances of
property belonging to the district and sold by the board.
9.Purchase school sites when authorized by a vote
of the district at an election conducted as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as the election provided in section 15481 and held on a date
prescribed in section 15491, subsection E, but such authorization shall
not necessarily specify the site to be purchased and such authorization shall
not be necessary to exchange unimproved property as provided in section 15342,
paragraph 23.
10.Construct, improve and furnish buildings used
for school purposes when such buildings or premises are leased from the
national park service.
11.Purchase school sites or construct, improve and
furnish school buildings from the proceeds of the sale of school property only
on approval by a vote of the district electors.
12.Hold pupils to strict account for disorderly
conduct on school property.
13.Discipline students for disorderly conduct on
the way to and from school.
14.Except as provided in section 151224,
deposit all monies received by the district as gifts, grants and devises with
the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits as designated in the uniform
system of financial records. If not inconsistent with the terms of the gifts,
grants and devises given, any balance remaining after expenditures for the
intended purpose of the monies have been made shall be used for reduction of
school district taxes for the budget year, except that in the case of
accommodation schools the county treasurer shall carry the balance forward for
use by the county school superintendent for accommodation schools for the
budget year.
15.Provide that, if a parent or legal guardian
chooses not to accept a decision of the teacher as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4, the parent or legal guardian may request in writing that the
governing board review the teacher's decision. This paragraph shall not be construed to does not release school districts from any
liability relating to a child's promotion or retention.
16.Provide for adequate supervision over pupils in
instructional and noninstructional activities by certificated or
noncertificated personnel.
17.Use school monies received from the state and
county school apportionment exclusively for payment of salaries of teachers and
other employees and contingent expenses of the district.
18.Make an annual report to the county school
superintendent on or before October 1 in the manner and form and on the blanks
prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction or county school
superintendent. The board shall also make reports directly to the county
school superintendent or the superintendent of public instruction whenever
required.
19.Deposit all monies received by school districts
other than student activities monies or monies from auxiliary operations as
provided in sections 151125 and 151126 with the county treasurer
to the credit of the school district except as provided in paragraph 20 of this
subsection and sections 151223 and 151224, and the board shall
expend the monies as provided by law for other school funds.
20.Establish bank accounts in which the board
during a month may deposit miscellaneous monies received directly by the
district. The board shall remit monies deposited in the bank accounts at least
monthly to the county treasurer for deposit as provided in paragraph 19 of this
subsection and in accordance with the uniform system of financial records.
21.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against a teacher who engages in conduct that is a
violation of the policies of the governing board but that is not cause for
dismissal of the teacher or for revocation of the certificate of the
teacher.Disciplinary action may include suspension without pay for
a period of time not to exceed ten school days. Disciplinary action shall not
include suspension with pay or suspension without pay for a period of time
longer than ten school days. The procedures shall include notice, hearing and
appeal provisions for violations that are cause for disciplinary action. The
governing board may designate a person or persons to act on behalf of the board
on these matters.
22.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against an administrator who engages in conduct that is
a violation of the policies of the governing board regarding duties of
administrators but that is not cause for dismissal of the administrator or for
revocation of the certificate of the administrator. Disciplinary action may
include suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school
days. Disciplinary action shall not include suspension with pay or suspension
without pay for a period of time longer than ten school days.The
procedures shall include notice, hearing and appeal provisions for violations
that are cause for disciplinary action. The governing board may designate a
person or persons to act on behalf of the board on these
matters.For violations that are cause for dismissal, the provisions
of notice, hearing and appeal in chapter 5, article 3 of this title shall
apply. The filing of a timely request for a hearing suspends the imposition of
a suspension without pay or a dismissal pending completion of the hearing.
23.Notwithstanding sections 133108 and 133120,
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures that prohibit a person from
carrying or possessing a weapon on school grounds unless the person is a peace
officer or has obtained specific authorization from the school administrator.
24.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
relating to the health and safety of all pupils participating in district
sponsored practice sessions or games or other interscholastic athletic
activities, including:
(a)The provision of water.
(b)Guidelines, information and forms, developed in
consultation with a statewide private entity that supervises interscholastic
activities, to inform and educate coaches, pupils and parents of the dangers of
concussions and head injuries and the risks of continued participation in
athletic activity after a concussion. The policies and procedures shall
require that, before a pupil participates in an athletic activity, the pupil
and the pupil's parent must sign an information form at least once each school
year that states that the parent is aware of the nature and risk of
concussion. The policies and procedures shall require that a pupil who is
suspected of sustaining a concussion in a practice session, game or other
interscholastic athletic activity be immediately removed from the athletic
activity.A coach from the pupil's team or an official or a licensed
health care provider may remove a pupil from play.A team parent may
also remove the parent's own child from play. A pupil may return to play on
the same day if a health care provider rules out a suspected concussion at the
time the pupil is removed from play. On a subsequent day, the pupil may return
to play if the pupil has been evaluated by and received written clearance to
resume participation in athletic activity from a health care provider who has
been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and head
injuries. A health care provider who is a volunteer and who provides clearance
to participate in athletic activity on the day of the suspected injury or on a
subsequent day is immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions
made and actions taken that are based on good faith implementation of the
requirements of this subdivision, except in cases of gross negligence or wanton
or wilful neglect. A school district, school district employee, team coach,
official or team volunteer or a parent or guardian of a team member is not
subject to civil liability for any act, omission or policy undertaken in good
faith to comply with the requirements of this subdivision or for a decision
made or an action taken by a health care provider.A group or
organization that uses property or facilities owned or operated by a school
district for athletic activities shall comply with the requirements of this
subdivision.A school district and its employees and volunteers are
not subject to civil liability for any other person or organization's failure
or alleged failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision. This
subdivision does not apply to teams that are based in another state and that
participate in an athletic activity in this state.For the purposes
of this subdivision, athletic activity does not include dance, rhythmic
gymnastics, competitions or exhibitions of academic skills or knowledge or
other similar forms of physical noncontact activities, civic activities or
academic activities, whether engaged in for the purposes of competition or
recreation. For the purposes of this subdivision, "health care
provider" means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13 or 17, an athletic trainer who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 41,
a nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, and a
physician assistant who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 25.
25.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
regarding the smoking of tobacco within school buildings. The policies and
procedures shall be adopted in consultation with school district personnel and
members of the community and shall state whether smoking is prohibited in
school buildings. If smoking in school buildings is not prohibited, the
policies and procedures shall clearly state the conditions and circumstances
under which smoking is permitted, those areas in a school building that may be designated
as smoking areas and those areas in a school building that may not be
designated as smoking areas.
26.Establish an assessment, data gathering and
reporting system as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
27.Provide special education programs and related
services pursuant to section 15764, subsection A to all children with
disabilities as defined in section 15761.
28.Administer competency tests prescribed by the
state board of education for the graduation of pupils from high school.
29.Ensure that insurance coverage is secured for
all construction projects for purposes of general liability, property damage
and workers' compensation and secure performance and payment bonds for all
construction projects.
30.Keep on file the resumes of all current and
former employees who provide instruction to pupils at a
school.Resumes shall include an individual's educational and
teaching background and experience in a particular academic content subject
area.A school district shall inform parents and guardians of the
availability of the resume information and shall make the resume information
available for inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled
at a school.This paragraph shall
not be construed to does
not require any school to release personally identifiable
information in relation to any teacher or employee, including the teacher's or
employee's address, salary, social security number or telephone number.
31.Report to local law enforcement agencies any
suspected crime against a person or property that is a serious offense as
defined in section 13706 or that involves a deadly weapon or dangerous
instrument or serious physical injury and any conduct that poses a threat of
death or serious physical injury to employees, students or anyone on the
property of the school. This paragraph does not limit or preclude the
reporting by a school district or an employee of a school district of suspected
crimes other than those required to be reported by this paragraph. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "dangerous instrument", "deadly
weapon" and "serious physical injury" have the same meanings
prescribed in section 13105.
32.In conjunction with local law enforcement
agencies and local medical facilities, develop an emergency response plan for
each school in the school district in accordance with minimum standards
developed jointly by the department of education and the division of emergency
management within the department of emergency and military affairs.
33.Provide written notice
to the parents or guardians of all students affected in the school district at
least ten days prior to a public meeting to discuss closing a school within the
school district.The notice shall include the reasons for the proposed
closure and the time and place of the meeting.The governing board
shall fix a time for a public meeting on the proposed closure no less than ten
days before voting in a public meeting to close the school. The school
district governing board shall give notice of the time and place of the
meeting.At the time and place designated in the notice, the school
district governing board shall hear reasons for or against closing the
school.The school district governing board is exempt from this paragraph
if it is determined by the governing board that the school shall be closed
because it poses a danger to the health or safety of the pupils or employees of
the school.A governing board may consult with the school facilities
board for technical assistance and for information on the impact of closing a
school. The information provided from the school facilities board shall not
require the governing board to take or not take any action.
34.Incorporate
instruction on Native American history into appropriate existing curricula.
35.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures:
(a)Allowing pupils who have been diagnosed with
anaphylaxis by a health care provider licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13, 14, 17 or 25 or by a registered nurse practitioner licensed and certified
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 to carry and self-administer emergency
medications, including autoinjectable epinephrine, while at school and
at schoolsponsored activities. The pupil's name on the prescription
label on the medication container or on the medication device and annual
written documentation from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that
authorizes possession and self-administration is sufficient proof that the
pupil is entitled to the possession and selfadministration of the
medication. The policies shall require a pupil who uses auto-injectable
epinephrine while at school and at schoolsponsored activities to notify
the nurse or the designated school staff person of the use of the medication as
soon as practicable. A school district and its employees are immune from civil
liability with respect to all decisions made and actions taken that are based
on good faith implementation of the requirements of this subdivision, except in
cases of wanton or wilful neglect.
(b)For the emergency administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine by a trained employee of a school district pursuant to section 15157.
36.Allow the possession
and self-administration of prescription medication for breathing disorders in
handheld inhaler devices by pupils who have been prescribed that medication by
a health care professional licensed pursuant to title 32.The
pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication container or on the
handheld inhaler device and annual written documentation from the pupil's
parent or guardian to the school that authorizes possession and
self-administration shall be sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to the
possession and selfadministration of the medication.A school
district and its employees are immune from civil liability with respect to all
decisions made and actions taken that are based on a good faith implementation
of the requirements of this paragraph.
37.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from harassing, intimidating and
bullying other pupils on school grounds, on school property, on school buses,
at school bus stops, at schoolsponsored events and activities and
through the use of electronic technology or electronic communication on school
computers, networks, forums and mailing lists that include the following
components:
(a)A procedure for pupils, parents and school
district employees to confidentially report to school officials incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying.The school shall make available
written forms designed to provide a full and detailed description of the
incident and any other relevant information about the incident.
(b)A requirement that school district employees
report in writing suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
to the appropriate school official and a description of appropriate
disciplinary procedures for employees who fail to report suspected incidents
that are known to the employee.
(c)A requirement that, at the beginning of each
school year, school officials provide all pupils with a written copy of the
rights, protections and support services available to a pupil who is an alleged
victim of an incident reported pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)If an incident is reported pursuant to this
paragraph, a requirement that school officials provide a pupil who is an
alleged victim of the incident with a written copy of the rights, protections
and support services available to that pupil.
(e)A formal process for the documentation of
reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying and for the
confidentiality, maintenance and disposition of this documentation. School
districts shall maintain documentation of all incidents reported pursuant to
this paragraph for at least six years. The school shall not use that
documentation to impose disciplinary action unless the appropriate school
official has investigated and determined that the reported incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying occurred. If a school provides
documentation of reported incidents to persons other than school officials or
law enforcement, all individually identifiable information shall be redacted.
(f)A formal process for the investigation by the
appropriate school officials of suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying, including procedures for notifying the alleged victim on
completion and disposition of the investigation.
(g)Disciplinary procedures for pupils who have
admitted or been found to have committed incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying.
(h)A procedure that sets forth consequences for
submitting false reports of incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
(i)Procedures designed to protect the health and
safety of pupils who are physically harmed as the result of incidents of
harassment, intimidation and bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to
contact emergency medical services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
(j)Definitions of harassment, intimidation and
bullying.
38.Prescribe and enforce
policies and procedures regarding changing or adopting attendance boundaries
that include the following components:
(a)A procedure for holding public meetings to
discuss attendance boundary changes or adoptions that allows public comments.
(b)A procedure to notify the parents or guardians
of the students affected.
(c)A procedure to notify the residents of the
households affected by the attendance boundary changes.
(d)A process for placing public meeting notices and
proposed maps on the school district's website for public review, if the school
district maintains a website.
(e)A formal process for presenting the attendance
boundaries of the affected area in public meetings that allows public comments.
(f)A formal process for notifying the residents and
parents or guardians of the affected area as to the decision of the governing
board on the school district's website, if the school district maintains a
website.
(g)A formal process for updating attendance
boundaries on the school district's website within ninety days of after
an adopted boundary change. The school district shall send a
direct link to the school district's attendance boundaries website to the
department of real estate.
(h)If the land that a school was built on was
donated within the past five years, a formal process to notify the entity that
donated the land affected by the decision of the governing board.
39.If the state board of education determines that
the school district has committed an overexpenditure as defined in section 15107,
provide a copy of the fiscal management report submitted pursuant to section 15107,
subsection H on its website and make copies available to the public on
request.The school district shall comply with a request within five
business days after receipt.
40.Ensure that the contract for the superintendent
is structured in a manner in which up to twenty per cent percent of the total annual salary included for the
superintendent in the contract is classified as performance pay. This
paragraph shall not be construed to
does not require school
districts to increase total compensation for superintendents.Unless
the school district governing board votes to implement an alternative procedure
at a public meeting called for this purpose, the performance pay portion of the
superintendent's total annual compensation shall be determined as follows:
(a)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined based on
the percentage of academic gain determined by the department of education of
pupils who are enrolled in the school district compared to the academic gain
achieved by the highest ranking of the fifty largest school districts in this
state.For the purposes of this subdivision, the department of
education shall determine academic gain by the academic growth achieved by each
pupil who has been enrolled at the same school in a school district for at
least five consecutive months measured against that pupil's academic results in
the 20082009 school year.For the purposes of this subdivision,
of the fifty largest school districts in this state, the school district with
pupils who demonstrate the highest statewide percentage of overall academic
gain measured against academic results for the 20082009 school year
shall be assigned a score of 100 and the school district with pupils who
demonstrate the lowest statewide percentage of overall academic gain measured
against academic results for the 20082009 school year shall be assigned
a score of 0.
(b)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of parents of pupils who are enrolled at the school district who
assign a letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of parental
satisfaction with the school district.The parental satisfaction
survey shall be administered and scored by an independent entity that is
selected by the governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and
experience to accurately measure the results of the survey. The parental
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each parent who participates in the
survey.The letter grade scale used on the parental satisfaction
survey shall direct parents to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(c)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of teachers who are employed at the school district and who assign a
letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of teacher satisfaction
with the school.The teacher satisfaction survey shall be
administered and scored by an independent entity that is selected by the
governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and experience to
accurately measure the results of the survey.The teacher
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each teacher who participates in the survey.
The letter grade scale used on the teacher satisfaction survey shall direct
teachers to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(d)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by other
criteria selected by the governing board.
41.Maintain and store permanent public records of
the school district as required by law. Notwithstanding section 39101,
the standards adopted by the Arizona state library, archives and public records
for the maintenance and storage of school district public records shall allow
school districts to elect to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph by
maintaining and storing these records either on paper or in an electronic
format, or a combination of a paper and electronic format.
42.Adopt in a public meeting and implement by
school year 20132014 policies for principal
evaluations.Before the adoption of principal evaluation policies,
the school district governing board shall provide opportunities for public
discussion on the proposed policies. The policies shall describe:
(a)The principal evaluation instrument, including
the four performance classifications adopted by the governing board pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38.
(b)Alignment of professional development
opportunities to the principal evaluations.
(c)Incentives for principals in one of the two
highest performance classifications pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38, which may include:
(i)Multiyear contracts pursuant to section 15503.
(ii)Incentives to work at schools that are assigned
a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
(d)Transfer and contract processes for principals
designated in the lowest performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraphs 7, 9 and
11 of this section, the county school superintendent may construct, improve and
furnish school buildings or purchase or sell school sites in the conduct of an
accommodation school.
C.If any school district acquires real or personal
property, whether by
purchase, exchange, condemnation,
gift or otherwise, the governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any
taxes on the property that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including
penalties and interest. if a school
district acquires real or personal property by condemnation, the governing
board is not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and interest in an amount
that exceeds the fair market value of the property interest acquired by the
school district. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties
and interest on property acquired by a school district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of the school district if the
governing board has paid the unpaid taxes, penalties and interest as required
by this subsection.
D.The governing board may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the
agricultural land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of
section 3365.If the owner agrees in writing to comply with
the buffer zone requirements and records the agreement in the office of the
county recorder as a restrictive covenant running with the title to the land,
the school district may locate a school within the affected buffer zone. The
agreement may include any stipulations regarding the school, including
conditions for future expansion of the school and changes in the operational
status of the school that will result in a breach of the agreement.
E.A school district, its governing board members,
its school council members and its employees are immune from civil liability
for the consequences of adoption and implementation of policies and procedures
pursuant to subsection A of this section and section 15342. This waiver
does not apply if the school district, its governing board members, its school
council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
F.A governing board may delegate in writing to a
superintendent, principal or head teacher the authority to prescribe procedures
that are consistent with the governing board's policies.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, a school district governing board shall not take any action that would
result in a reduction of pupil square footage unless the governing board
notifies the school facilities board established by section 152001 of
the proposed action and receives written approval from the school facilities
board to take the action.A reduction includes an increase in
administrative space that results in a reduction of pupil square footage or
sale of school sites or buildings, or both. A reduction includes a
reconfiguration of grades that results in a reduction of pupil square footage
of any grade level.This subsection does not apply to temporary
reconfiguration of grades to accommodate new school construction if the
temporary reconfiguration does not exceed one year.The sale of
equipment that results in a reduction that falls below the equipment requirements
prescribed in section 152011, subsection B is subject to commensurate
withholding of school district district
additional assistance monies pursuant to the direction of the school facilities
board.Except as provided in section 15342, paragraph 10, proceeds
from the sale of school sites, buildings or other equipment shall be deposited
in the school plant fund as provided in section 151102.
H.Subsections C, through
D, E, F and G of this
section apply to a county board of supervisors and a county school
superintendent when operating and administering an accommodation school. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 15-1444, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1444.General powers and duties of district governing boards
A.Except as otherwise provided, the district board
shall:
1.Maintain each community college for a period of not less than at least eight months in each year and, if the
funds of the district are sufficient, maintain each community college for a
longer period.
2.Adopt policies in a public forum to offer
programs that meet the educational needs of the population served by the
community college.
3.Enforce the courses of study prescribed by the
district board.
4.Visit each community college under its
jurisdiction and examine carefully into its management, conditions and needs.
5.Exclude from each community college all books,
publications or papers of a sectarian, partisan or denominational character
intended for use as textbooks.
6.Appoint and employ a chancellor or chancellors,
vicechancellors, a president or presidents, vicepresidents,
deans, professors, instructors, lecturers, fellows and such other officers and
employees it deems necessary. The district board may enter into employment
contracts with chancellors, vicechancellors and presidents for a
duration of more than one year but not more than five years.
7.Determine the salaries of persons it appoints and
employs.
8.Remove any officer or employee if in its judgment
the interests of education in this state require the removal.
9.Award degrees, certificates and diplomas on the
completion of courses and curriculum as it deems appropriate.
10.Appoint or employ, if it deems necessary, police
officers who shall have the authority and power of peace officers. The police
officers who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer
standards and training board are eligible for membership in and benefits under
either title 38, chapter 5, article 2 or the public safety personnel retirement
system under title 38, chapter 5, article 4.
11.Determine the location within the district of a
community college and purchase, receive, hold, make and take leases of, sell
and convey real or personal property for the benefit of the community colleges
under its jurisdiction.
12.Obtain insurance or be selfinsured, or a
combination of insurance and selfinsurance, against loss, to the extent
it is determined necessary on community college buildings of the district. The
local district shall have an insurable interest in the buildings.
B.The district board may:
1.Administer trusts declared or created for the
district and receive by gift or devise and hold in trust or otherwise property
wheresoever located, and if not otherwise provided, dispose of the property for
the benefit of the district.
2.Lease real property, as lessor or as lessee. If
a district is the lessee, the lease may contain an option to purchase the property.The
district board may adopt policies as are deemed necessary and may delegate in
writing to the chancellor or president of the district, or their designees, all
or any part of its authority to lease property under this paragraph.Any
delegation by the district board pursuant to this paragraph may be rescinded in
whole or in part at any time by the district board.
3.Sue and be sued.
4.Contract. The district board may adopt such
policies as are deemed necessary and may delegate in writing to the chancellor
or president of the district, or their designees, all or any part of its
authority to contract under this paragraph. Any delegation of authority under
this paragraph may be rescinded by the district board at any time in whole or
in part.
5.Construct, remodel and repair buildings.
6.In conjunction with other districts, establish
policies for procurement of goods and services.
7.Provide a plan or plans for employee benefits,
which may include optional retirement programs pursuant to section 151451,
subsection A, which allow for participation in a cafeteria plan that meets the
requirements of the United States internal revenue code of 1986.
8.Accept grants or donations of monies from the
United States, or from any of its agencies, departments or officers, or from
persons, corporations, foundations or associations. A district board shall
deposit the monies into a specific fund or account and a district board shall
administer the monies in accordance with the purpose of the grant or donation
with specific policies or restrictions as described or stipulated in the grant
or donation. In the case of personal property granted or donated to or for the
benefit of a community college district, a district board shall immediately
transfer possession and ownership of the property to the designated district.
9.Enter into intergovernmental agreements or
contracts pursuant to section 11952.01 for participation in programs
offered by public agency pools or separately contract with a trustee or board
of trustees that provides a common selfinsurance program with pooled
funds and risks pursuant to section 15382, subsection B, paragraph 2.
The district board is not required to engage in competitive procurement in
order to make the decision to participate in these programs.
10.Name a building or a group of buildings that is
located on a community college campus on behalf of a person or entity that has
made a significant contribution of monies or other property to the community
college or the community college district.
11.Enter into research and development agreements,
royalty agreements, development agreements, licensing agreements and
profit-sharing agreements concerning the research, development, production,
storing or marketing of new products developed or to be developed through
community college district research.
12.Enter into an intergovernmental agreement
pursuant to section 151747 to participate in a reciprocity agreement
subject to the terms of the reciprocity agreement.
C.If a district acquires real or personal property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise,
the district shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property that
were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and interest. if a district acquires real or personal
property by condemnation, the district is not required to pay unpaid taxes,
penalties and interest in an amount that exceeds the fair market value of the
property interest acquired by the district. The lien for unpaid delinquent
taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired by the district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of the district if the district
has paid the unpaid taxes, penalties and interest as required by this
subsection.
D.In a district whose boundaries encompass a
vehicle emissions control area as defined in section 49541, the district
board shall require all outofcounty and outofstate
students to sign an affidavit at the time of course registration that the
student's vehicle meets the requirements of section 49542. The district
board on property under its jurisdiction within a vehicle emissions control
area shall prohibit the parking of those vehicles that fail to comply with
section 49542.
E.A community college district and a joint
technical education district governing board may enter into agreements for the
provision of administrative, operational and educational services and
facilities.
F.Each district may establish a program for the
exchange of students between the community colleges under its jurisdiction and
colleges and universities located in Sonora, Mexico. The program may provide
for instate tuition for Sonora students at the community colleges under
the jurisdiction of the district in exchange for similar tuition provisions for
Arizona students enrolled or seeking enrollment in Sonora colleges and universities.
The community colleges may work in conjunction with the ArizonaMexico
commission in the governor's office to coordinate recruitment and admissions
activities to provide for instate tuition for up to fifty Sonora
students at the community colleges under the jurisdiction of the district in
exchange for similar tuition provisions for up to fifty total Arizona students
enrolled or seeking enrollment in Sonora colleges and universities.
G.Each district shall facilitate transfer
articulation coordination pursuant to section 151824. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 37-804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-804.Payment of outstanding taxes, penalties and interest on
acquiring property; limitation
A.If this state or any agency or instrumentality of
this state acquires real or personal property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the entity
acquiring the title to the property may require the owner of subject the
property to provide sufficient funds to pay to the county
treasurer any taxes on the property that were unpaid as of the date of
acquisition, including penalties and interest, prorated to reflect the area the date of the acquisition.
B.if this
state or any agency or instrumentality of this state acquires real or personal property by
condemnation, the entity is not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and
interest in an amount that exceeds the fair market value of the property
interest acquired by the entity.
B.c.The lien for
unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired by this
state:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of this state or any agency or
instrumentality of this state if the entity has paid the unpaid taxes, penalties and
interest as required by this section.END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 42-17153, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-17153.Lien for taxes; time lien attaches; priority
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, a tax that is levied on real or personal property is a lien on the
assessed property.
B.A tax that is levied against personal property of
a person who owns real property of a value of less than two hundred dollars in
the county is a personal liability of the property owner, in addition to being
a lien against the property.
C.The lien:
1.Attaches on January 1 of the tax year.
2.Is not satisfied or removed until one of the
following occurs:
(a)The taxes, penalties, charges and interest are
paid.
(b)Title to the property has finally vested in a
purchaser under a sale for taxes.
(c)A certificate of removal and abatement has been
issued pursuant to section 4218353.
3.Is prior and superior to all other liens and
encumbrances on the property, except:
(a)Liens or encumbrances held by this state.
(b)Liens for taxes accruing in any other years.
D.For taxpayers valued by the department pursuant
to section 4214151, the lien shall attach to all property, real and
personal, regardless of the taxing jurisdiction where such the
property is located. Such
The lien will attach to
the entire system and may not be released by payment of a portion of the tax
liability relating to a single portion or component of the system.
E.If a political subdivision of this state acquires
title to property after December 31, 1998,
by purchase, exchange,
gift or otherwise, the
political subdivision of this state shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes
on the property that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including
penalties and interest. if a political subdivision of this state acquires real
or personal property by condemnation, the political subdivision of this state
is not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and interest in an amount that
exceeds the fair market value of the property interest acquired by the
political subdivision of this state. Any lien for delinquent
taxes on the property:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property unless approved by the county board of
supervisors.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the
lien is not enforceable against the interests of the political subdivision of
this state if the political subdivision of this state has paid the unpaid
taxes, penalties and interest as required by this subsection.END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 48-248, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-248.Payment of outstanding taxes, penalties and interest on
acquiring property; limitation
A.If any special taxing district acquires real or
personal property, whether
by purchase, exchange, condemnation,
gift or otherwise, the governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any
taxes on the property that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including
penalties and interest.
B.if a
special taxing district acquires real or personal property by condemnation, the
governing body is not required to pay unpaid taxes, penalties and interest in
an amount that exceeds the fair market value of the property interest acquired
by the special taxing district.
B.C.The
lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired
by a district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens, except that the lien is not enforceable
against the interests of the special taxing district if the special taxing district has paid the
unpaid taxes, penalties and interest as required by this section.END_STATUTE

