



PREFILED DEC 04 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: tax abatement; no parcel number







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2005









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem, Mitchell: Lawrence, Livingston, Norgaard, Thorpe, Townsend





AN ACT

Amending sections
42-18351 and 42-18353, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to property tax
abatement.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-18351, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-18351.Circumstances for abating tax and removing tax lien
This article applies in the following situations:
1.An error or omission resulting in an improper
imposition of a property tax.
2.An event or circumstance that existed at the time
of the levy and assessment, or that occurred afterwards, and that invalidates
the lien of the property tax or the sale of the lien.
3.The property tax lien was not advertised for sale
pursuant to section 42-18105 within five years after the delinquency, unless
the failure to advertise within five years after the delinquency was due to a
restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
4.The cost of pursuing the statutory lien sale and
collection procedures or the sale of lands under article 7 of this chapter or
the cost of the seizure and sale of personal property pursuant to section
42-18401 would equal or exceed the revenue that could be derived.
5.The
failure by the county assessor to assign a valid property tax parcel
identification number. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-18353, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-18353.Certificate of removal and abatement; purging record of
tax, penalty and interest
A.On finding that a situation described in section
42-18351 exists for any taxable year or years, and on receiving the approval of
the board of supervisors, the county treasurer shall prepare a certificate of
removal and abatement stating:
1.The name of the property owner.
2.A description of the property.
3.The tax parcel number if known.
4.The years and amounts of tax, penalty and
interest involved.
5.The extent to which the lien is proposed to be
removed and the extent to which the tax, penalty and interest are proposed to
be abated pursuant to this section.
B.The county treasurer shall present the
certificate of removal and abatement to the board of supervisors for the
board's approval. The certificate of removal and abatement is final and
effective when approved by the board of supervisors.
C.When a certificate of removal and abatement
becomes final and effective,
the county treasurer shall:
1.Delete from the delinquent list and the record of
tax lien sales the tax, interest and penalty covered by the certificate.
2.Make a notation in those records that the
deletion was made pursuant to a certificate that was duly issued pursuant to
this section and stating the number of the certificate. END_STATUTE

