







REFERENCE TITLE: developmental disabilities; terminology;
  settings







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2099









Introduced by
Representative
  Allen J





AN ACT

Amending sections
8503, 8514.01, 36551, 36554, 36558, 36558.01,
36591, 36592, 36593, 36594 and 36594.02,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 36595.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 362939 and 411037, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to developmental disabilities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-503.Powers and duties
A.The division shall:
1.Exercise supervision over all child welfare
agencies.
2.Advise and cooperate with the governing boards of
all child welfare agencies.
3.Assist the staffs of all child welfare agencies
by giving advice on progressive methods and procedures of child care and
improvement of services.
4.Establish rules, regulations, and standards for:
(a)Licensing of child welfare agencies.
(b)Licensing of foster homes.
(c)Classifications of foster homes as:
(i)Receiving foster homes.
(ii)Regular foster homes.
(iii)Special classes of foster homes as are needed
according to the types of problems involved.
(iv)Group foster homes.
(d)Certifying each foster home according to one or
more of the categories prescribed in subdivision (c) of this paragraph.
(e)Initial and ongoing foster parent training
programs.
(f)The method of approving foster parent training
programs.
(g)Uniform amounts of payment for all foster homes
according to certification. However, variations in uniform amounts of payments
may be allowed for foster homes based on consideration of geographical location
or age or mental or physical condition of a foster child.
(h)Renewal of licenses of child welfare agencies
and foster homes.
(i)Form and content of investigations, reports and
studies concerning disposition of children and foster home placement.
5.Establish a program of counseling and
rehabilitation of parents whose children have been placed in foster homes.
6.Establish foster parent training programs or
contract with other agencies, institutions or groups for the provision of such
programs to foster parents.Foster parent training programs shall be
established in at least the following areas:
(a)Initial and ongoing training as a foster parent
for a regular or group foster home.
(b)Initial and ongoing training as a foster parent
for a special foster home.
7.Regulate the importation and exportation of
children.
8.In conjunction with the department of education
and the department of juvenile corrections, develop and implement a uniform
budget format to be submitted by licensed child welfare
agencies.The budget format shall be developed in such a manner
that, at a minimum, residential and educational instructional costs are
separate and distinct budgetary items.
9.Beginning
October 1, 1983, Establish as a goal that, at any given time, not
more than fifty per cent percent of the total number of
children whose maintenance is subsidized by title IV, part E of the social security
act, as amended, shall be in foster care in excess of twentyfour
consecutive months. The division shall establish through regulations
appropriate procedures to achieve the goal.
B.Except as provided in section 8514.01,
large group settings for children, group homes for children and child
developmental foster homes which that have one or more residents who are
clients of the department with developmental disabilities shall be licensed
pursuant to title 36, chapter5.1, article 3. Rules, regulations and
standards adopted pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 4 of this section shall
not apply to group homes for children or child developmental foster homes licensed pursuant to title 36,
chapter 5.1, article 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-514.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-514.01.Placement of children with developmental disabilities
All foster placements of children
with developmental disabilities made by the division shall be made to child
developmental foster homes
for children with developmental disabilities that are operated or licensed by the
department of economic security pursuant to title 36, chapter 5.1, article 3 and that provide specialized
programs for children with developmental disabilities, except that placements
of children with developmental disabilities to other types of foster homes licensed pursuant
to this article may be made,
if the division determines that such placement is in the best interests of the
child. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 36, chapter 5.1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "STATE DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENTAL
DISABILITIES" to "DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES".
Sec.4.Section 36-551, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-551.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Adaptive behavior" means the
effectiveness or degree to which the individual meets the standards of personal
independence and social responsibility expected of the person's age and
cultural group.
2."Adult developmental home" means a residential
setting in a family home in which the care, physical custody and supervision of
the adult client are the responsibility, under a twentyfour hour twentyfourhour care model, of
the licensee who, in that capacity, is not an employee of the division or of a
service provider and the home provides the following services for a group of
siblings or up to three adults with developmental disabilities:
(a)Room and board.
(b)Habilitation.
(c)Appropriate personal care.
(d)Appropriate supervision.
3."Adult household member" means a person
who is at least eighteen years of age and who resides in an adult developmental
home, child developmental foster
home, secure setting or other home and community based
service setting for at least thirty days or who resides in the household
throughout the year for more than a cumulative total of thirty days.
4."Advisory council" means the
developmental disabilities advisory council.
5."Arizona training program facility"
means a stateoperated
stateoperated institution
for clients of the department with
developmental disabilities of the
department.
6."Attributable to cognitive disability,
epilepsy, cerebral palsy or autism" means that there is a causal
relationship between the presence of an impairing condition and the
developmental disability.
7."Autism" means a condition
characterized by severe disorders in communication and behavior resulting in
limited ability to communicate, understand, learn and participate in social
relationships.
8."Case management" means coordinating
the assistance needed by persons with developmental disabilities and their
families in order to ensure that persons with developmental disabilities attain
their maximum potential for independence, productivity and integration into the
community.
9."Case manager" means a person who
coordinates the implementation of the individual program plan of goals,
objectives and appropriate services for persons with developmental
disabilities.
10."Cerebral palsy" means a permanently
disabling condition resulting from damage to the developing brain that may
occur before, after or during birth and that results in loss or impairment of
control over voluntary muscles.
11."Child developmental foster home" means a residential setting
in a family home in which the care,
physical custody and supervision of the child are the
responsibility, under a twentyfour
hour twentyfourhour
care model, of the licensee who serves as the foster parent developmental home provider of the child in
the home setting and who, in that capacity, is not an employee of the division
or of a service provider and the home provides the following services for a
group of siblings or up to three children with developmental disabilities:
(a)Room and board.
(b)Habilitation.
(c)Appropriate personal care.
(d)Appropriate supervision.
12."Client" means a person receiving
developmental disabilities services from the department.
13."Cognitive disability" means a
condition that involves subaverage general intellectual functioning, that
exists concurrently with deficits in adaptive behavior manifested before the age of eighteen and that is sometimes referred to
as intellectual disability.
14."Community residential setting" means
a residential setting in which persons
with developmental disabilities live and are provided with appropriate
supervision by the service provider responsible for the operation of the
residential setting. Community residential setting includes a child
developmental foster home, or an adult developmental home operated or contracted by the department or the department's
contracted vendor or a secure
setting group home
operated or contracted by the department in
which persons with developmental disabilities live and are provided with
appropriate supervision by the service provider responsible for the operation
of the residential setting.
15."Consent" means voluntary informed
consent. Consent is voluntary if not given as the result of coercion or undue
influence. Consent is informed if the person giving the consent has been
informed of and comprehends the nature, purpose, consequences, risks and
benefits of the alternatives to the procedure, and has been informed and
comprehends that withholding or withdrawal of consent will not prejudice the
future provision of care and services to the client.In cases of
unusual or hazardous treatment procedures performed pursuant to section 36561,
subsection A, experimental research, organ transplantation and nontherapeutic
surgery, consent is informed if, in addition to the foregoing, the person
giving the consent has been informed of and comprehends the method to be used
in the proposed procedure.
16."Daily habilitation" means
habilitation as defined in this section except that the method of payment is
for one unit per residential day.
17."Department" means the department of
economic security.
18."Developmental disability" means
either a strongly demonstrated potential that a child under six years of age
has a developmental disability or will become
a child with develop
a developmental disability, as determined by a test performed pursuant to
section 36694 or by other appropriate tests, or a severe, chronic
disability that:
(a)Is attributable to cognitive disability,
cerebral palsy, epilepsy or autism.
(b)Is manifested before the age of eighteen.
(c)Is likely to continue indefinitely.
(d)Results in substantial functional limitations in
three or more of the following areas of major life activity:
(i)Selfcare.
(ii)Receptive and
expressive language.
(iii)Learning.
(iv)Mobility.
(v)Selfdirection.
(vi)Capacity for independent living.
(vii)Economic selfsufficiency.
(e)Reflects the need for a combination and sequence
of individually planned or coordinated special, interdisciplinary or generic
care, treatment or other services that are of lifelong or extended duration.
19."Director" means the director of the
department of economic security.
20."Division" means the division of
developmental disabilities in the department of economic security.
21."Epilepsy" means a neurological
condition characterized by abnormal electricalchemical discharge in the
brain.This discharge is manifested in various forms of physical
activities called seizures.
22."Group home" means a residential
setting for not more than six persons with developmental disabilities that is
operated by a service provider under contract with the division department and that provides, in a shared living environment, room and
board and daily habilitation, and other
assessed medically necessary services and supports to meet the needs of each
person. Group home does not include an adult developmental home,
a child developmental foster
home, a secure setting or
an intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual disability.
23."Guardian" means the person who, under
court order, is appointed to fulfill the powers and duties prescribed in
section 145312. Guardian does not include a guardian pursuant to
section 145312.01.
24."Habilitation" means the process by
which a person is assisted to acquire and maintain those life skills that
enable the person to cope more effectively with personal and environmental
demands and to raise the level of the person's physical, mental and social
efficiency.
25."Indigent" means a person with a
developmental disability whose estate or parent is unable to bear the full cost
of maintaining or providing services for that person in a developmental
disabilities program.
26."Individual program plan" means a
written statement of services to be provided to a person with developmental
disabilities, including habilitation goals and objectives, which that
is developed following initial placement evaluation and revised
after periodic evaluations.
27."Intermediate care facility for persons
with an intellectual disability" means a facility that primarily provides
health and rehabilitative services to persons with developmental disabilities
that are above the service level of room and board or supervisory care services
or personal care services as defined in section 36401 but that are less
intensive than skilled nursing services.
28."Large group setting" means a setting
that in addition to residential care provides support services such as therapy,
recreation and transportation to seven or more persons with developmental
disabilities who require intensive supervision.
29."Least restrictive alternative" means
an available program or facility that fosters independent living, that is the
least confining for the client's condition and where service and treatment are
provided in the least intrusive manner reasonably and humanely appropriate to
the individual's needs.
30."Likely to continue indefinitely"
means that the developmental disability has a reasonable likelihood of
continuing for a protracted period of time or for life.
31."Manifested before the age of eighteen" means that the disability must be
apparent and have a substantially limiting effect on a person's functioning
before the age of eighteen.
32."Physician" means a person who is
licensed to practice pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
33."Placement evaluation" means an
interview and evaluation of a person with a developmental disability and a
review of the person's prior medical and program histories to determine the
appropriate developmental disability programs and services for the person and
recommendations for specific program placements for the person.
34."Psychologist" means a person who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1.
35."Respite services" means services that
provide a shortterm or longterm interval of rest or relief to the
care provider of a person with a developmental disability.
36."Responsible person" means the parent
or guardian of a minor with a developmental disability, the guardian of an
adult with a developmental disability or an adult with a developmental
disability who is a client or an applicant for whom no guardian has been
appointed.
37."Secure
facility" means a facility that is licensed and monitored by the division,
that is designed to provide both residential and program services within the
facility and that is operated to prevent clients from leaving because of the
danger they may present to themselves and the community.
38.37."Service
provider" means a person or agency that provides services to clients
pursuant to a contract, service agreement or qualified vendor agreement with
the division.
39.38."State
operated service center" means a state owned or leased facility that is
operated by the department and that provides temporary residential care and
space for child and adult services that include respite care, crisis
intervention and diagnostic evaluation.
40.39."Subaverage
general intellectual functioning" means measured intelligence on
standardized psychometric instruments of two or more standard deviations below
the mean for the tests used.
41.40."Substantial
functional limitation" means a limitation so severe that extraordinary
assistance from other people, programs, services or mechanical devices is
required to assist the person in performing appropriate major life activities.
42.41."Supervision"
means the process by which the activities of an individual with developmental
disabilities are directed, influenced or monitored. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 36-554, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-554.Powers and duties of director
A.The director shall:
1.Be responsible for developing and annually revising
a statewide plan and initiating statewide programs and services for persons
with developmental disabilities in locations where the programs and services
are necessary, which shall include:
(a)Child services, which may include infant
stimulation, developmental training for preschool preschool children and special
education at Arizona training program facilities for schoolage, children with
developmental disabilities residing at Arizona training program facilities who
do not attend public school.
(b)Adult services, in coordination with the
vocational rehabilitation services of the department, which may include but not
be limited to job training and training and adjustment services, job
development and placement, sheltered employment and other nonvocational day
activity services for adults.
(c)Residential services, including various
community residential settings, Arizona training program facilities and state
operated service centers which
that provide varying
levels of supervision in accordance with the developmental disability levels of
the persons placed at such settings, facilities or centers. The department
shall contract with private profit or nonprofit agencies to provide appropriate
residential settings for persons with developmental disabilities which that
provide for regular assistance and supervision of such persons
and which that provide varied developmental disability
programs and services on or near the community residential setting.
(d)Resource services, which may include
comprehensive evaluation services, information and referral services and
outpatient rehabilitation and social development services.The
department in providing developmental disability programs and services shall
whenever practicable utilize qualified private contractors.In
selecting private contractors, the department shall utilize those contractors which that can clearly demonstrate an ability to
perform such contract in accordance with standards and specifications adopted
by the department.
2.Establish standards, provide technical assistance, and supervise all
developmental disability programs and services operated by or supported by the
department.
3.Coordinate the planning and implementation of
developmental disability programs and activities, institutional and community,
of all state agencies, provided this shall not be construed as depriving other
state agencies of jurisdiction over, or the right to plan for, control, and operate programs that
pertain to developmental disability programs but that fall within the primary
jurisdiction of such other state agencies.
4.Periodically assess the effectiveness of the
quality assurance system as required by 42 Code of Federal Regulations section
434.34 as it pertains to developmental disabilities programs.
5.License community residential settings pursuant
to this chapter.
6.Develop rules establishing a procedure for
handling complaints about community residential settings.
7.Inform in writing every parent or guardian of a
client with a developmental disability residing at or transferring to a
community residential setting of the complaint handling procedure.
8.As new
community residential settings are developed over a period of time, reduce the
clientele at Arizona training program facilities to those persons with
developmental disabilities who are required to be in Arizona training program
facilities because the community lacks an appropriate community residential
setting that meets their individual needs or whose parents or legal guardians
want them in an Arizona training program facility.
9.8.In
conjunction with the division, individuals with developmental disabilities and
their families, advocates, community members and service providers, develop,
enhance and support environments that enable individuals with developmental
disabilities to achieve and maintain physical wellbeing, personal and
professional satisfaction, participation as family and community members and
safety from abuse and exploitation.
10.9.Do
all other things reasonably necessary and proper to carry out the duties and
the provisions of this chapter.
11.10.Adopt
rules regarding procurement procedures similar to those found in title 41,
chapter 23.
B.Programs and services offered pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section shall be provided in cooperation with
public and private resources that can best meet the needs of persons with
developmental disabilities and that are located in the community and in
proximity to the persons being served.
C.The director may:
1.Establish nonresidential outpatient programs for the placement, evaluation, care, treatment and training of
persons with developmental disabilities
residing in the community who are not eligible for public school
programs, and who do
not have access to other state supported
statesupported programs
providing equivalent services.
2.Develop cooperative programs with other state
departments and agencies, political subdivisions of the state, and private agencies concerned with and
providing services for persons with developmental disabilities.
3.Contract for the purchase of services with other
state and local governmental or private agencies.Such agencies are
authorized to accept and expend funds received pursuant to such contracts.
4.Stimulate research by public and private
agencies, institutions of higher learning,
and hospitals in the interest of the prevention of developmental disabilities
and improved methods of care and training for persons with developmental
disabilities.
5.Apply for, accept, receive, hold in trust or use
in accordance with the terms of the grant or agreement any public or private
funds or properties, real or personal, granted or transferred to it for any
purpose authorized by this chapter.
6.Make and amend rules from time to time as deemed
necessary for the proper administration of programs and services for the
treatment of persons with developmental disabilities, for the admission of
persons with developmental disabilities to the programs and services and to
carry out the purposes of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 36-558, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-558.Establishment and maintenance of programs and services;
definition
A.In addition to the Arizona training program
facilities at Randolph and Tucson, the director shall establish and maintain a
state owned and operated service center in Phoenix and other developmental
disabilities programs and services at other locations throughout the state,
subject to the availability of funds for such purpose and the approval of the
legislature.
B.The director is responsible for the operation of
each developmental disabilities program and service, shall coordinate these
services and shall permit the transfer of residents between the various
programs.
C.The department may provide, but not be limited
to, the following programs and services in addition to other services
prescribed by the director:
1.Child services, which may include:
(a)Infant stimulation.
(b)Developmental day training and related preschool
programs.
(c)Special education at department facilities.
2.Adult services, which may include:
(a)Job training for specific jobs.
(b)Training and personal adjustment tools such as
the teaching of work skills.
(c)Job development and placement.
(d)The provision of sheltered employment
opportunities.
(e)Adult day activity services.
3.Residential services, which shall include:
(a)Arizona training program facilities.
(b)State owned and operated service centers.
(c)Community residential settings under varying
degrees of supervision or a semiindependent living arrangement. Community residential settings include, subject
to the availability of funding, a secure facility.
(d)Respite care.
4.Resource services, which may include:
(a)Diagnosis
Diagnoses and evaluation evaluations.
(b)Therapy services, including physical therapy,
speech therapy, occupational therapy and behavioral therapy.
(c)Healthrelated services, including dental
services.
(d)Social development and adjustment services,
including recreation programs.
(e)Transportation.
(f)Information and referral.
(g)Inhome services.
5.Public information resources on developmental
disabilities.
6.Training and practicum programs in conjunction
with other state agencies and universities and colleges for teachers,
psychologists, social workers, medical personnel and others interested in the
field of developmental disabilities.
7.Research laboratories in the fields of behavioral
services and abstract research.
8.Guardianship services.
D.Services of a facility may not supplant existing
community services that are provided
through other local, city or state resources.
E.The department shall stimulate, cooperate with
and promote the development of community programs through existing resources
and provide consultation wherever needed.
F.A service provider who is providing guardianship
services must comply with the disclosure requirements of section 145106
and shall not provide services to a person with developmental disabilities that
would cause a conflict of interest or that would jeopardize the service
provider's ability to represent the person with developmental disabilities as a
guardian.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"guardianship services" means services offered to a person with
developmental disabilities by a service provider who is under contract with the
division to act as a guardian to a person with developmental disabilities if no
other appropriate guardian is available. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 36-558.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-558.01.Operation, support and supervision of child development
homes and foster homes; duties of department
A.The department shall operate directly or support
and supervise child developmental foster
homes and foster homes licensed pursuant to title 8, chapter 4, article 4 to
provide specialized foster care to persons with developmental
disabilities.Such homes shall be operated for persons placed
pursuant to sections 8514.01 and 8845 and for appropriate
placements for persons for whom and application
for residential services has been made to the department.
B.In furtherance of its responsibility pursuant to
subsection A ofthis section, the department shall recruit, license and
support such homes in accordance with this chapter, maintain regular
supervision of such homes and such placements, conduct training programs for
the staff of such homes and develop the program and service standards for
persons with developmental disabilities to be placed in such homes.
C.Foster homes supported by the department shall be
paid for each person with a developmental disability placed in the home an
amount determined by the department based on the type of developmental
disability and the consequent need for programs and services of each person so
placed. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 36-591, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-591.Adult developmental homes; child developmental homes; licensing;
applicability
A.An adult developmental home,
or child developmental foster
home or secure facility
shall be licensed pursuant to this article.
B.Group homes, except for those described in
subsection E of this section, shall be licensed for health and safety by the
department of health services pursuant to section 36132.
C.The division shall notify the department of
health services of:
1.Service providers who enter into contracts with
the division for group homes.
2.Any violation of health and safety standards
observed during monitoring visits.
D.The department of health services shall
immediately notify the division:
1.When a group home license has been denied,
suspended or revoked.
2.Of any other licensing action taken on a group home
by the department of health services.
3.Of substantiated complaints regarding health and
safety.
E.The division shall ensure that state operated stateoperated residential settings that
are owned or leased facilities operated by the division meet the same standards
as group homes unless they are certified as intermediate care facilities for
persons with an intellectual disability pursuant to 42 Code of Federal
Regulations section 483.400. An
intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual disability that is
operated by the division or private entity is not required to be licensed under
this section if it is certified pursuant to 42 Code of Federal Regulations
section 483.400.
F.The department
shall visit each adult developmental home and child developmental foster home and inspect the
premises used for the care of children or vulnerable adults for sanitation,
fire and other actual and potential hazards. The department shall take any
action it deems necessary to carry out the duties imposed by this section,
including the denial of the application for licensure and the suspension or
revocation of the home's license.
G.An
intermediate care facility for persons with an intellectual disability is not
required to be licensed under this section if it is certified pursuant to 42
Code of Federal Regulations section 483.400. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 36-592, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-592.Adult developmental homes; child developmental homes;
license application; investigation and operation
A.An applicant for an adult developmental home, or child developmental foster home or secure facility license shall submit an
application on a form prescribed by the department.
B.Before issuing a license to an applicant, the department shall
investigate the activities and standards of care within the setting, the
financial stability of the applicant, the character and training of the
applicant and the adequacy of services.The department by rule shall
establish standards for licensure.
C.Each license shall state in general terms the
kind of setting the licensee is authorized to operate and shall prescribe the
number, ages and sex of clients.
D.A licensee who holds an adult developmental home, or child developmental foster home or secure facility license shall:
1.Comply with applicable health, safety and
sanitation codes or standards and document its compliance.
2.File reports as prescribed by the department.
3.Allow the department to inspect or monitor its
services and facility and the facility's books and records.
4.Comply with rules adopted by the department.
5.Provide for the health, safety and welfare of its the licensee's clients.
E.A license expires one year from the date of
issuance.
F.For each adult developmental home,
and child developmental foster
home and secure facility,
the department shall:
1.Conduct an annual home visit.
2.Monitor the settings for compliance with
department rules at least two times per year. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 36-593, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-593.Adult developmental homes; child developmental homes;
provisional licenses
A.The department may issue a provisional license to
an applicant or licensee who is temporarily unable to conform to standards of
care established by the department if the deficiencies can be remedied within
six months.
B.A provisional license is valid for six months and
shall not be renewed.
C.The department shall not issue a provisional
license if conditions exist that could endanger the health and safety of
clients residing in the setting.
D.If the department determines that the applicant
or licensee meets the standards established by the department, it the
department shall issue a regular license.The regular
license is valid for one year from the date the department issued the
provisional license. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 36-594, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-594.Denial, suspension or revocation of license
The department may deny, suspend or revoke a license pursuant
to title 41, chapter 6, article 6 for any one or a combination of the
following:
1.An applicant or licensee violates this chapter,
rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, federal or state statutes or city or
county ordinances or codes.
2.An applicant or licensee refuses to cooperate in
obtaining or providing information the department deems necessary to determine
if the department's standards have been met.
3.An employee, applicant, licensee or adult
household member of an adult developmental home,
or child developmental foster
home or secure facility has
been convicted of, has been found by a court to have committed or is reasonably
believed to have committed a sex offense, a drug related offense, a theft
related offense, a violence related offense, child abuse, child neglect,
contributing to the delinquency of a minor or abuse or neglect of a vulnerable
adult. For the purposes of this paragraph, "vulnerable adult" has
the same meaning prescribed in section 133623.
4.An applicant or licensee materially misrepresents
or wilfully fails to disclose information to the department relating to the
applicant's or licensee's qualifications, experience or performance of responsibilities.
5.The department determines, using criteria
established in statute or rule, that an applicant or licensee is unable or
unwilling to meet the physical or emotional needs of clients. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 36-594.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-594.02.Fingerprinting of adult developmental home licensees and
child developmental home licensees
A person who applies for a license for an adult developmental
home or a child developmental foster
home shall have a valid fingerprint clearance card issued pursuant to section
411758.07. The person shall certify on forms that are provided by the
department whether the person is awaiting trial on or has been convicted of any
of the offenses listed in section 411758.07, subsections B and C in this
state or similar offenses in another state or jurisdiction. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Repeal
Section 36-595.03,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.14.Section 36-2939, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2939.Longterm care system services
A.The following services shall be provided by the
program contractors to members who are determined
to need institutional services pursuant to this article:
1.Nursing facility services other than services in
an institution for tuberculosis or mental disease.
2.Notwithstanding any other law, behavioral health
services if these services are not duplicative of longterm care services
provided as of January30, 1993 under this subsection and are authorized
by the program contractor through the longterm care case management
system.If the administration is the program contractor, the
administration may authorize these services.
3.Hospice services. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "hospice" means a program of palliative and supportive
care for terminally ill members and their families or caregivers.
4.Case management services as provided in section
362938.
5.Health and medical services as provided in
section 362907.
B.In addition to the services prescribed in
subsection A of this section, the department, as a program contractor, shall
provide the following services if appropriate to members who have a
developmental disability as defined in section 36551 and are determined
to need institutional services pursuant to this article:
1.Intermediate care facility services for a member
who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551.For
purposes of this article, a facility shall meet all federally approved
standards and may only include the Arizona training program facilities, a state
owned and operated service center, state owned or operated community
residential settings and private state
licensed facilities that contract with the department.
2.Home and community based services that may be
provided in a member's home, at an alternative residential setting as
prescribed in section 36591 or at other behavioral health alternative
residential facilities licensed by the department of health services and
approved by the director of the Arizona health care cost containment system
administration and that may include:
(a)Home health, which means the provision of
nursing services or home health aide services or medical supplies, equipment
and appliances, that are provided on a parttime or intermittent basis by
a licensed home health agency within a member's residence based on a
physician's orders and in accordance with federal law.Physical
therapy, occupational therapy, or speech and audiology services provided by a
home health agency may be provided in accordance with federal law.
Home health agencies shall comply with federal bonding requirements in a manner
prescribed by the administration.
(b)Home health aide, which means a service that
provides intermittent health maintenance, continued treatment or monitoring of
a health condition and supportive care for activities of daily living provided
within a member's residence.
(c)Homemaker, which means a service that provides
assistance in the performance of activities related to household maintenance
within a member's residence.
(d)Personal care, which means a service that
provides assistance to meet essential physical needs within a member's
residence.
(e)Day care for persons with developmental
disabilities, which means a service that provides planned care supervision and
activities, personal care, activities of daily living skills training and
habilitation services in a group setting during a portion of a continuous twentyfour hour twentyfourhour
period.
(f)Habilitation, which means the provision of
physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech or audiology services or
training in independent living, special developmental skills, sensorymotor
development, behavior intervention, and orientation and mobility in accordance
with federal law.
(g)Respite care, which means a service that provides
shortterm care and supervision available on a twentyfour hour twentyfourhour basis.
(h)Transportation, which means a service that
provides or assists in obtaining transportation for the member.
(i)Other services or licensed or certified settings
approved by the director.
C.In addition to services prescribed in subsection
A of this section, home and community based services may be provided in a
member's home, in an adult foster care home as prescribed in section 36401,
in an assisted living home or assisted living center as defined in section 36401
or in a level one or level two behavioral health alternative residential
facility approved by the director by program contractors to all members who do
not have a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 and are
determined to need institutional services pursuant to this
article.Members residing in an assisted living center must be
provided the choice of single occupancy.The director may also
approve other licensed residential facilities as appropriate on a case by case casebycase basis for traumatic
brain injured members. Home and community based services may include the
following:
1.Home health, which means the provision of nursing
services, home health aide services or medical supplies, equipment and
appliances, that are provided on a parttime or intermittent basis by a
licensed home health agency within a member's residence based on a physician's
orders and in accordance with federal law.Physical therapy,
occupational therapy, or speech and audiology services provided by a home
health agency may be provided in accordance with federal law.Home
health agencies shall comply with federal bonding requirements in a manner
prescribed by the administration.
2.Home health aide, which means a service that
provides intermittent health maintenance, continued treatment or monitoring of
a health condition and supportive care for activities of daily living provided
within a member's residence.
3.Homemaker, which means a service that provides
assistance in the performance of activities related to household maintenance
within a member's residence.
4.Personal care, which means a service that
provides assistance to meet essential physical needs within a member's
residence.
5.Adult day health, which means a service that
provides planned care supervision and activities, personal care, personal
living skills training, meals and health monitoring in a group setting during a
portion of a continuous twentyfour
hour twentyfourhour
period.Adult day health may also include preventive, therapeutic
and restorative health related services that do not include behavioral health
services.
6.Habilitation, which means the provision of
physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech or audiology services or
training in independent living, special developmental skills, sensorymotor
development, behavior intervention, and orientation and mobility in accordance
with federal law.
7.Respite care, which means a service that provides
shortterm care and supervision available on a twentyfour hour twentyfourhour basis.
8.Transportation, which means a service that
provides or assists in obtaining transportation for the member.
9.Home delivered meals, which means a service that
provides for a nutritious meal containing
that contains at least
onethird of the recommended dietary allowance for an individual and which that is delivered to the member's residence.
10.Other services or licensed or certified settings
approved by the director.
D.The amount of money expended by program
contractors on home and community based services pursuant to subsection C of
this section shall be limited by the director in accordance with the federal
monies made available to this state for home and community based services
pursuant to subsection C of this section. The director shall establish methods
for the allocation of monies for home and community based services to program
contractors and shall monitor expenditures on home and community based services
by program contractors.
E.Notwithstanding subsections A, B, C and F of this
section, no service may be provided that does not qualify for federal monies
available under title XIX of the social security act or the section 1115
waiver.
F.In addition to services provided pursuant to
subsections A, B and C of this section, the director may implement a
demonstration project to provide home and community based services to special
populations, including persons with disabilities who are eighteen years of age
or younger, are medically
fragile, reside at home and would be eligible for supplemental security income
for the aged, blind or disabled or the state supplemental payment program,
except for the amount of their parent's income or resources. In implementing
this project, the director may provide for parental contributions for the care
of their child.
G.Subject to section 36562, the
administration by rule shall prescribe a deductible schedule for programs
provided to members who are eligible pursuant to subsection B of this section,
except that the administration shall implement a deductible based on family
income.In determining deductible amounts and whether a family is
required to have deductibles, the department shall use adjusted gross income.
Families whose adjusted gross income is at least four hundred per cent percent and less than or equal to five hundred per cent percent of the federal poverty guidelines
shall have a deductible of two per cent
percent of adjusted gross
income. Families whose adjusted gross income is more than five hundred per cent percent of adjusted gross income shall have a
deductible of four per cent
percent of adjusted gross
income.Only families whose children are under eighteen years of age
and who are members who are eligible pursuant to subsection B of this section
may be required to have a deductible for services.For the purposes
of this subsection, "deductible" means an amount a family, whose
children are under eighteen years of age and who are members who are eligible
pursuant to subsection B of this section, pays for services, other than
departmental case management and acute care services, before the department
will pay for services other than departmental case management and acute care
services. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 41-1037, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1037.General permits; issuance of traditional permit
A.If an agency proposes a new rule or an amendment
to an existing rule that requires the issuance of a regulatory permit, license
or agency authorization, the agency shall use a general permit if the
facilities, activities or practices in the class are substantially similar in
nature unless any of the following applies:
1.A general permit is prohibited by federal law.
2.The issuance of an alternative type of permit,
license or authorization is specifically authorized by state statute.
3.The issuance of a general permit is not
technically feasible or would not meet the applicable statutory requirements.
4.The issuance of a general permit would result in
additional regulatory requirements or costs being placed on the permit
applicant.
5.The permit, license or authorization is issued
pursuant to section 8126, 8503, 8505, 23504, 36592,
36594.01, 36595, 36595.03,
36596, 36596.54, 411967.01 or 46807.
6.The permit, license or authorization is issued
pursuant to title V of the clean air act.
B.The agency retains the authority to revoke an
applicant's ability to operate under a general permit and to require the
applicant to obtain a traditional permit if the applicant is in substantial
noncompliance with the applicable requirements for the general permit. END_STATUTE

