



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: committee of reference; chairperson;
  appointment







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2082









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
412953 and 412954, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
committees of reference.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-2953, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2953.Joint legislative audit committee sunset powers and
duties; report by auditor general and committees of reference; sunset review
reports; performance audits
A.The joint legislative audit committee shall designate the chairman of each committee
of reference and shall assign agencies to the respective
committees of reference according to subject matter for performance review.
B.The auditor general shall provide to the committee
a list of agencies scheduled for termination in the next sunset termination
schedule, plus an estimate of the audit hours necessary to conduct a sunset
review of each agency, not less than twenty months prior to the termination
date for such agencies.Not less than nineteen months prior to such
termination date, the committee shall meet to review the information submitted
by the auditor general, shall select which agencies are subject to sunset
review by the auditor general and which agencies are subject to sunset review
by the committees of reference and shall determine the priority of review by
the auditor general or the committees of reference.If the auditor
general or the committees of reference are unable to complete the sunset review
of a selected agency, the committee shall oversee the preparation of proposed
legislation to place such agency in the following sunset termination schedule
and is responsible for the introduction of such legislation.Those
agencies not selected for sunset review by the committee shall terminate
pursuant to article 2 of this chapter unless otherwise continued by the
legislature.
C.The committee shall initiate the sunset review
not less than seventeen months prior to the termination date for each agency which that is selected pursuant to subsection B of
this section and scheduled for termination pursuant to article 2 of this
chapter.The draft sunset review report shall be completed not less
than eleven months prior to the date established by article 2 of this chapter
for termination.Before such report is submitted, the state agency
affected shall be given an opportunity to review the draft report and submit
written comments or rebuttal,
which shall be included in the preliminary sunset review report.The
agency shall have not more than forty calendar days to review the draft report
for comment or rebuttal.The preliminary sunset review report shall
be submitted to the governor, to each member of the committee, to the committee
of reference and to the affected agency by October 1 of the year prior to the
scheduled termination date of the agency.
D.The committee may direct the auditor general or
the committees of reference to conduct a performance audit, as defined in
chapter 7, article 10.1 of this title, or a special performance audit of any
agency as defined in section 412952.
E.If an agency is continued, the joint legislative
audit committee may direct the auditor general or the committees of reference
to conduct a followup review of the agency to determine how the agency
has performed its statutory functions or corrected deficiencies of prior sunset
review, or both. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-2954, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2954.Committees of reference; membership; vacancies;
performance review reports; hearings; recommendations; subpoena powers
A.The
chairperson of each standing committee of both legislative houses
shall appoint a subcommittee of five members.Not more than three
appointees of each house shall be of the same political party.The
subcommittees shall jointly constitute a committee of reference in their
respective subject matter areas. The
chairperson of the standing committee may appoint a person to fill a vacancy on
a committee of reference by filing a letter with the secretary of the senate or
the chief clerk of the house of representatives.
B.After receipt of the preliminary sunset review
report, the committee of reference shall hold at least one public hearing to
receive testimony from the public and from the officials of the agency
involved. The agency involved shall prepare a presentation for the first
public meeting that addresses the elements of the written statement required by
subsectionF of this section.
C.The committee of reference shall hold public
hearings for the following purposes:
1.To determine the actual need of the agency to
regulate or direct the particular activity.
2.To determine the extent to which the statutory
requirements of the agency are necessary and are being met.
3.To receive testimony from the public as to the
relationship of the agency with the public.
4.To receive testimony from the executive director
or other head of the agency as to reasons for the continuation of the agency.
D.The committee of reference shall consider but not
be limited to the following factors in determining the need for continuation or
termination of each agency:
1.The objective and purpose in establishing the
agency and the extent to which the objective and purpose are met by private
enterprises in other states.
2.The extent to which the agency has met its
statutory objective and purpose and the efficiency with which it has operated.
3.The extent to which the agency serves the entire
state rather than specific interests.
4.The extent to which rules adopted by the agency
are consistent with the legislative mandate.
5.The extent to which the agency has encouraged
input from the public before adopting its rules and the extent to which it has
informed the public as to its actions and their expected impact on the public.
6.The extent to which the agency has been able to
investigate and resolve complaints that are within its jurisdiction.
7.The extent to which the attorney general or any
other applicable agency of state government has the authority to prosecute
actions under the enabling legislation.
8.The extent to which agencies have addressed
deficiencies in their enabling statutes that prevent them from fulfilling their
statutory mandate.
9.The extent to which changes are necessary in the
laws of the agency to adequately comply with the factors listed in this
subsection.
10.The extent to which the termination of the agency
would significantly affect the public health, safety or welfare.
11.The extent to which the level of regulation
exercised by the agency compares to other states and is appropriate and whether
less or more stringent levels of regulation would be appropriate.
12.The extent to which the agency has used private
contractors in the performance of its duties as compared to other states and
how more effective use of private contractors could be accomplished.
13.The extent to which the agency potentially creates
unexpected negative consequences that might require additional review by the
committee of reference, including increasing the price of goods, affecting the
availability of services, limiting the abilities of individuals and businesses
to operate efficiently and increasing the cost of government.
E.The committee of reference shall deliver the
final sunset review report of its recommendations to the committee, the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the
governor, the auditor general and the affected agency by December
1.Such recommendations shall include one of the following:
1.That the state agency be continued.
2.That the state agency be revised or consolidated.
3.That the state agency be terminated pursuant to
this chapter.
F.The final sunset review report by the committee
of reference shall also include a written statement prepared by the agency
involved that contains:
1.An identification of the problem or the needs
that the agency is intended to address.
2.A statement, to the extent practicable, in
quantitative and qualitative terms, of the objectives of such agency and its
anticipated accomplishments.
3.An identification of any other agencies having
similar, conflicting or duplicate objectives, and an explanation of the manner
in which the agency avoids duplication or conflict with other such agencies.
4.An assessment of the consequences of eliminating
the agency or of consolidating it with another agency.
G.The committee shall oversee the preparation of
any proposed legislation to implement the recommendations of the committees of
reference and is responsible for the introduction of such legislation.
H.If an agency is continued, it is not necessary to
reappoint any member of the governing board or commission of the
agency.Such The members are eligible to
complete their original terms without reappointment or reconfirmation.
I.Each committee of reference shall have the power
of legislative subpoena pursuant to chapter 7, article 4 of this title. END_STATUTE

