



PREFILED DEC 10 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: marijuana; regulation; taxation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2006









Introduced by
Representative
  Cardenas





AN ACT

Amending title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 28.2; amending title 42,
chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 13; relating to the
regulation of marijuana.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 28.2, to read:
CHAPTER 28.2
REGULATION OF MARIJUANA
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-2821.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Consumer"
means a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who purchases
marijuana or marijuana products for personal use or use by persons who are at
least twentyone years of age, but not for resale to others.
2."Department"
means the department of health services.
3."Industrial
hemp" means the plant of the genus cannabis and any part of that plant,
whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that
does not exceed threetenths percent on a dry-weight basis.
4."Local
regulatory authority" means the office or entity that is designated by a
locality to process marijuana establishment applications.
5."Locality"
means a city, town or county.
6."Marijuana":
(a)Means all parts of the plant of
the genus cannabis, the seeds of the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or its resin, including marijuana
concentrate.
(b)Does not include industrial hemp
or fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the
plant, a sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination or the
weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or
oral administrations, food, drink or another product.
7."Marijuana
accessories" means any equipment, products or materials of any kind that
are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing or containing marijuana, or for ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
8."Marijuana
cultivation facility" means an entity that is registered to cultivate,
prepare and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to other marijuana cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
9."Marijuana
establishment" means a marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana testing
facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility or a retail marijuana
store.
10."Marijuana
product manufacturing facility" means an entity that is registered to
purchase marijuana, manufacture, prepare and package marijuana products and
sell marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
11."Marijuana
products" means concentrated marijuana products and marijuana products
that are composed of marijuana and other ingredients and that are intended for
use or consumption, including edible products, ointments and tinctures.
12."Marijuana
testing facility" means an entity that is registered to analyze and
certify the safety and potency of marijuana.
13."Public
place" means any place to which the general public has access.
14."Retail
marijuana store" means an entity that is registered to purchase marijuana
from marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2822.Marijuana; personal use; forfeiture prohibited
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a person who is at
least twentyone years of age may:
1.Possess,
consume, use, display, purchase or transport marijuana accessories or one ounce
or less of marijuana.
2.Possess,
grow, process or transport not more than five marijuana plants and the
marijuana produced by the plants on the premises where the plants were grown.
3.Transfer,
without remuneration, one ounce or less of marijuana and not more than five
immature marijuana plants to a person who is at least twentyone years of
age.
4.Assist
another person who is at least twentyone years of age in any of the acts
described in this subsection.
B.Marijuana
and marijuana accessories that are in the possession of a person who is at
least twentyone years of age pursuant to subsection A of this section
are not subject to seizure or forfeiture in this state or any political
subdivision of this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2823.Personal cultivation; requirements; civil penalty
A.It is
unlawful for a person who is at least twentyone years of age to
cultivate a marijuana plant unless:
1.The
marijuana plant is cultivated in a location where the plant is not subject to
public view without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aids.
2.The
person takes reasonable precautions to ensure that the plant is secure from
unauthorized access and access by a person who is under twentyone years
of age.
3.The
marijuana cultivation occurs only on property that is lawfully in possession of
the cultivator or with the consent of the person who is in lawful possession of
the property.
B.A person
who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2824.Public smoking prohibited; civil penalty
It is unlawful for a
person to smoke marijuana in a public place. A person who violates this
section is subject to a civil penalty of not more than five hundred dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2825.False identification; violation; classification
A.A person
who is under twentyone years of age may not present or offer to a marijuana
establishment or the marijuana establishment's agent or employee any written
instrument or oral evidence of age that is false, fraudulent or not actually
the person's own for the purpose of either:
1.Purchasing,
attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure
marijuana.
2.Gaining
access to a marijuana establishment.
B.A person
who violates this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2826.Marijuana accessories
Notwithstanding any
other law, in this state and any political subdivision of this state, a person
who is at least twentyone years of age may manufacture, possess and
purchase marijuana accessories and distribute and sell marijuana accessories to
a person who is at least twentyone years of age. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2827.Marijuana establishments; authorization; limitation;
forfeiture prohibited
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, a retail marijuana store with a current and valid registration
or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who is acting in
the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a retail marijuana
store with a current and valid registration may do all of the following in this
state and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Possess,
display, store and transport marijuana and marijuana products if the marijuana
and marijuana products are not displayed in a manner that is visible to the
general public from a public rightofway.
2.Purchase
marijuana from a marijuana cultivation facility.
3.Purchase
marijuana and marijuana products from a marijuana product manufacturing facility.
4.Deliver,
distribute and sell marijuana and marijuana products to consumers.
5.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
B.Notwithstanding
any other law, a marijuana cultivation facility with a current and valid
registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who
is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a
marijuana cultivation facility with a current and valid registration may do all
of the following in this state and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Cultivate,
harvest, process, package, transport, display, store and possess marijuana.
2.Deliver
and transfer marijuana to a marijuana testing facility.
3.Deliver,
distribute and sell marijuana to a marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana
product manufacturing facility and a retail marijuana store.
4.Receive
and purchase marijuana from a marijuana cultivation facility.
5.Receive
marijuana seeds and immature marijuana plants from a person who is at least
twentyone years of age.
6.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
C.Notwithstanding
any other law, a marijuana product manufacturing facility with a current and
valid registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age
and who is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a
marijuana product manufacturing facility with a current and valid registration
may do all of the following in this state and any political subdivision of this
state:
1.Package,
process, transport, manufacture, display and possess marijuana and marijuana
products.
2.Deliver
and transfer marijuana and marijuana products to a marijuana testing facility.
3.Deliver
and sell marijuana and marijuana products to a retail marijuana store and a
marijuana product manufacturing facility.
4.Purchase
marijuana from a marijuana cultivation facility.
5.Purchase
marijuana and marijuana products from a marijuana product manufacturing
facility.
6.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
D.Notwithstanding
any other law, a marijuana testing facility with a current and valid
registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who
is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a
marijuana testing facility with a current and valid registration may do all of
the following in this state and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Possess,
cultivate, process, repackage, store, transport or display marijuana.
2.Receive
marijuana from a marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana retail store, a
marijuana product manufacturing facility or a person who is at least twentyone
years of age.
3.Return
marijuana to a marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana retail store, a
marijuana product manufacturing facility or a person who is at least twentyone
years of age.
4.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
E.A
marijuana cultivation facility may not produce marijuana concentrates,
tinctures, extracts or other marijuana products.
F.Any item
that is lawfully in the possession of a marijuana establishment pursuant to
this section or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who
is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a
marijuana establishment pursuant to this section is not subject to seizure or
forfeiture in this state or any political subdivision of this state.
G.This
section does not prevent the imposition of penalties for violating this chapter
or rules adopted by the department or a locality pursuant to this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2828.Marijuana establishments; registration; application;
inspection
A.A
marijuana establishment shall submit to the department an application or
renewal application for an annual registration to operate. A renewal
application may be submitted up to ninety days before the expiration of the
marijuana establishment's registration.
B.The
department shall begin accepting and processing applications to operate
marijuana establishments one year after the effective date of this section.
C.On
receiving an application or renewal application for a marijuana establishment,
the department shall immediately forward a copy of each application and half of
the registration application fee to the local regulatory authority for the
locality in which the applicant desires to operate the marijuana establishment,
unless the locality has not designated a local regulatory authority.
D.At least
fortyfive but not more than ninety days after receiving an application
or renewal application for a marijuana establishment, the department shall
issue an annual registration to the applicant, unless the department finds that
the applicant is not in compliance with rules adopted by the department.
E.If an
application is denied, the department shall notify the applicant in writing of
the specific reason for the denial.
F.Every
applicant for a marijuana establishment registration shall specify the location
where the marijuana establishment will operate.A separate
registration is required for each location at which a marijuana establishment
operates.
G.The
department may inspect marijuana establishments and the books and records
maintained and created by marijuana establishments. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2829.Underage possession; forfeiture; drug awareness program;
civil penalty
Notwithstanding section
133405, a person who is under twentyone years of age and who is
found to possess one ounce or less of marijuana shall forfeit the marijuana and
complete not more than four hours of instruction in a drug awareness program.
If the person does not complete the drug awareness program within one year, the
person is subject to a civil penalty of not more than three hundred dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2830.Applicability of chapter
This chapter does not:
1.Require
an employer to permit or accommodate the use, consumption, possession,
transfer, display, transportation, sale or growing of marijuana in the
workplace.
2.Affect
the ability of employers to have policies restricting the use of marijuana by
employees or to discipline employees who are under the influence of marijuana
in the workplace.
3.Allow
driving under the influence of marijuana or driving while impaired by marijuana
or supersede laws related to driving under the influence of marijuana or
driving while impaired by marijuana.
4.Permit
the transfer of marijuana, with or without remuneration, to a person who is
under twentyone years of age or allow a person who is under twentyone
years of age to purchase, possess, use, transport, grow or consume marijuana.
5.Prohibit
a person, employer, school, hospital, detention facility or corporation or any
other entity that occupies, owns or controls a property from prohibiting or
otherwise regulating the possession, consumption, use, display, transfer,
distribution, sale, transportation or growing of marijuana on or in that
property.
6.Limit any
privileges or rights of a medical marijuana patient, primary caregiver or
medical marijuana dispensary under chapter 28.1 of this title. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2831.Research
Scientific and medical
researchers who have previously published may purchase, possess and securely
store marijuana for purposes of conducting research. Scientific and medical
researchers may administer and distribute marijuana to a research participant
who is at least twentyone years of age after receiving informed consent
from the research participant. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2832.Marijuana regulation fund; transfer 
The marijuana
regulation fund is established consisting of fees and taxes collected and civil
penalties imposed under this chapter. The department shall administer the fund
and shall use the monies in the fund for implementation and enforcement of this
chapter. Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated. Monies in the fund
may not be transferred to any other fund except as provided in section 423552.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2833.Consumer privacy
To ensure that
individual privacy is protected, the department may not require a consumer to
provide a retail marijuana store with personal information other than
governmentissued identification to determine the consumer's age, and a
retail marijuana store is not required to acquire and record personal information
about consumers. END_STATUTE
Sec. 2.Title 42, chapter 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 13, to read:
ARTICLE 13.MARIJUANA
START_STATUTE42-3551.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Marijuana"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821.
2."Marijuana
cultivation facility" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821.
3."Marijuana
product manufacturing facility" has the same meaning prescribed in section
36-2821.
4."Retail
marijuana store" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE42-3552.Levy and collection of tax on marijuana; disposition of
monies
A.There is
levied and shall be collected by the department in the manner provided by this
chapter a tax at the rate of fifty dollars per ounce, or proportionate part
thereof, on the sale or transfer of marijuana from a marijuana cultivation
facility to a retail marijuana store or marijuana product manufacturing
facility.
B.The
department of health services may adjust the rate annually to account for
inflation or deflation based on the consumer price index published by the
United States department of labor, bureau of labor statistics.
C.Notwithstanding
section 423102, the department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, monies levied and collected pursuant to this section in the
marijuana regulation fund established by section 362832.
D.The
department of revenue shall distribute, every three months, revenues generated
by the tax imposed pursuant to this section in excess of the amount needed to
implement and enforce title 36, chapter 28.2 in any fiscal year as follows:
1.Thirty percent to the department of education.
2.Ten percent to the department of health
services for use in voluntary programs for the treatment of alcohol, tobacco
and marijuana abuse.
3.Ten
percent to the department of health services for a scientifically and medically
accurate public education campaign educating youth and adults about the health
and safety risks of alcohol, tobacco and marijuana.
4.Fifty
percent to the state general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec. 3.Rulemaking;
definition
A.Not later than one hundred eighty days after the
effective date of this act, the department of health services shall adopt rules
necessary for implementation of this act.The rules may not prohibit
the operation of marijuana establishments, either expressly or through rules
that make the operation of a marijuana establishment unreasonably
impracticable.The rules shall include:
1.Procedures for the issuance, renewal, suspension
and revocation of a registration to operate a marijuana establishment
consistent with the requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised
Statutes.
2.A schedule of application, registration and
renewal fees. Application fees may not exceed five thousand dollars, adjusted
annually for inflation, unless the department determines a greater fee is
necessary to carry out the department's responsibilities under this act.
3.Qualifications for registration that are directly
and demonstrably related to the operation of a marijuana establishment.
4.Security requirements for marijuana
establishments, including for the transportation of marijuana by marijuana
establishments.
5.Requirements to prevent the sale or diversion of
marijuana and marijuana products to persons who are under twentyone
years of age.
6.Labeling requirements for marijuana and marijuana
products that are sold or distributed by a marijuana establishment.
7.Health and safety regulations and standards for
the manufacture of marijuana products and both the indoor and outdoor
cultivation of marijuana by marijuana establishments.
8.Restrictions on the advertising and display of
marijuana and marijuana products.
9.Civil penalties for the failure to comply with
rules adopted pursuant to this section.
10.Procedures for collecting taxes levied on
marijuana cultivation facilities.
B.For the purposes of this section,
"unreasonably impracticable" means that the measures necessary to
comply with the rules adopted by the department require such a high investment
of risk, money, time or any other resource or asset that the operation of a
marijuana establishment is not worth being carried out in practice by a
reasonably prudent businessperson.
Sec.4.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular
session.
Sec.5.Requirements for enactment; two-thirds
vote
Pursuant to article IX, section
22, Constitution of Arizona, this act is effective only on the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of the members of each house of the legislature and is
effective immediately on the signature of the governor or, if the governor
vetoes this act, on the subsequent affirmative vote of at least three-fourths
of the members of each house of the legislature.

