



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: statewide assessments; parental opt-out







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2056









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley, Boyer: Senator Allen





AN ACT

AMENDING sections
15102, 15701 and 15741, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to pupil assessment.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-102.Parental involvement in the school; definition
A.The governing board, in consultation with
parents, teachers and administrators, shall develop and adopt a policy to
promote the involvement of parents and guardians of children enrolled in the
schools within the school district, including:
1.A plan for parent participation in the schools which that is designed to improve parent and teacher
cooperation in such areas as homework, attendance and discipline.
2.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
course of study for their children and review learning materials, including the
source of any supplemental educational materials.
3.Procedures by which parents who object to any
learning material or activity on the basis that it is harmful may withdraw
their children from the activity or from the class or program in which the
material is used. Objection to a learning material or activity on the basis that
it is harmful includes objection to a material or activity because it questions
beliefs or practices in sex, morality or religion.
4.If a school district offers any sex education
curricula pursuant to section 15711 or 15716 or pursuant to any
rules adopted by the state board of education, procedures to prohibit a school
district from providing sex education instruction to a pupil unless the pupil's
parent provides written permission for the child to participate in the sex
education curricula.
5.Procedures by which parents will be notified in
advance of and given the opportunity to withdraw their children from any
instruction or presentations regarding sexuality in courses other than formal
sex education curricula.
6.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
nature and purpose of clubs and activities that are part of the school
curriculum, extracurricular clubs and activities that have been approved by the
school.
7.Procedures by which parents may learn about
parental rights and responsibilities under the laws of this state, including
the following:
(a)The right to opt in to a sex education
curriculum if one is provided by the school district.
(b)Open enrollment rights pursuant to section 15816.01.
(c)The right to opt out of assignments pursuant to
this section.
(d)The right to opt out of immunizations pursuant
to section 15873.
(e)The promotion requirements prescribed in section
15701.
(f)The minimum course of study and competency
requirements for graduation from high school prescribed in section 15701.01.
(g)The right to opt out of instruction on the
acquired immune deficiency syndrome pursuant to section 15716.
(h)The right to review test results pursuant to
section 15743.
(i)The right to participate in gifted programs pursuant
to section 15779.01.
(j)The right to access instructional materials
pursuant to section 15730.
(k)The right to receive a school report card
pursuant to section 15746.
(l)The attendance requirements prescribed in
sections 15802, 15803 and 15821.
(m)The right to public review of courses of study
and textbooks pursuant to section 15721.
(n)The right to be excused from school attendance
for religious purposes pursuant to section 15806.
(o)Policies related to parental involvement pursuant
to this section.
(p)The right to seek membership on school councils
pursuant to section 15351.
(q)The right to participate in a parental
satisfaction survey pursuant to section 15353.
(r)Information about the student accountability
information system as prescribed in section 151042 151041.
(s)The right to access the failing schools tutoring
fund pursuant to section 15-241.
(t)The right to opt out of the
statewide assessments prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title. 
B.The policy adopted by the governing board
pursuant to this section may also include the following components:
1.A plan by which parents will be made aware of the
district's parental involvement policy and this section, including:
(a)Rights under the family educational rights and
privacy act of 1974 (20 United States Code section 1232g) relating to access to
children's official records.
(b)The parent's right to inspect the school
district policies and curriculum.
2.Efforts to encourage the development of parenting
skills.
3.The communication to parents of techniques
designed to assist the child's learning experience in the home.
4.Efforts to encourage access to community and
support services for children and families.
5.The promotion of communication between the school
and parents concerning school programs and the academic progress of the
parents' children.
6.Identifying opportunities for parents to
participate in and support classroom instruction at the school.
7.Efforts to support, with appropriate training,
parents as shared decision makers
decisionmakers and
to encourage membership on school councils.
8.The recognition of the diversity of parents and
the development of guidelines that promote widespread parental participation
and involvement in the school at various levels.
9.The development of preparation programs and
specialized courses for certificated employees and administrators that promote
parental involvement.
10.The development of strategies and programmatic
structures at schools to encourage and enable parents to participate actively
in their children's education.
C.The governing board may adopt a policy to provide
to parents the information required by this section in an electronic form.
D.A parent shall submit a written request for
information pursuant to this section during regular business hours to either
the school principal at the school site or the superintendent of the school
district at the office of the school district.Within ten days of
receiving the request for information, the school principal or the
superintendent of the school district shall either deliver the requested
information to the parent or submit to the parent a written explanation of the
reasons for the denial of the requested information. If the request for
information is denied or the parent does not receive the requested information
within fifteen days after submitting the request for information, the parent
may submit a written request for the information to the school district
governing board, which shall formally consider the request at the next
scheduled public meeting of the governing board if the request can be properly
noticed on the agenda. If the request cannot be properly noticed on the
agenda, the governing board shall formally consider the request at the next
subsequent public meeting of the governing board.
E.For the purposes of this section,
"parent" means the natural or adoptive parent or legal guardian of a
minor child. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-701.Common school; promotions; requirements; certificate;
supervision of eighth grades by superintendent of high school district; high
school admissions; academic credit; definition
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Prescribe a minimum course of study, as defined
in section 15101 and incorporating the academic standards adopted by the
state board of education, to be taught in the common schools.
2.Prescribe competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the eighth grade and competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the third grade incorporating the academic standards
in at least the areas of reading, writing, mathematics, science and social
studies. Notwithstanding section 15521, paragraph 4, the competency
requirements for the promotion of pupils from the third grade shall include the
following:
(a)Unless
the pupil's parent opts out of the statewide assessments prescribed in article
3 of this chapter, a requirement that a pupil not be promoted
from the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level or
the equivalent as established by the board. A pupil may not be retained if
data regarding the pupil's performance on the Arizona instrument to measure
standards test, or a successor test, is not available before the start of the
following academic year. A pupil who is not retained due to the unavailability
of test data must receive intervention and remedial strategies pursuant to
subdivision (c) of this paragraph if the third grade assessment data
subsequently demonstrates that the pupil's reading ability falls far below the
third grade level or the equivalent.
(b)A mechanism to allow a school district governing
board or the governing body of a charter school to promote a pupil from the
third grade who obtains a score on the reading portion of the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that demonstrates
that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level for any of the
following:
(i)A good cause exemption if the pupil is an
English learner or a limited English proficient student as defined in section
15751 and has had fewer than two years of English language instruction.
(ii)A pupil who is in the process of a special
education referral or evaluation for placement in special education or, a pupil who has been diagnosed as having a
significant reading impairment, including dyslexia, or a pupil who is a child with a disability
as defined in section 15761 if the pupil's individualized education
program team and the pupil's parent or guardian agree that promotion is
appropriate based on the pupil's individualized education program.
(c)Intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education for pupils who are not promoted from the third
grade. A school district governing board or the governing body of a charter
school shall offer at least one of the intervention and remedial strategies
developed by the state board of education. The parent or guardian of a pupil
who is not promoted from the third grade and the pupil's teacher and principal
may choose the most appropriate intervention and remedial strategies that will
be provided to that pupil. The intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education shall include:
(i)A requirement that the pupil be assigned to a
different teacher for reading instruction.
(ii)Summer school reading instruction.
(iii)In the next academic year, intensive reading
instruction that occurs before, during or after the regular school day, or any
combination of before, during and after the regular school day.
(iv)Online reading instruction.
3.Provide for universal screening of pupils in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs and grades one through three that is
designed to identify pupils who have reading deficiencies pursuant to section
15704.
4.Develop intervention and remedial strategies
pursuant to paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this subsection for pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one through three who are identified as having
reading deficiencies pursuant to section 15704.
5.Distribute guidelines for the school districts to
follow in prescribing criteria for the promotion of pupils from grade to grade
in the common schools.These guidelines shall include recommended
procedures for ensuring that the cultural background of a pupil is taken into
consideration when criteria for promotion are being applied.
B.School districts and charter schools shall
provide annual written notification to parents of pupils in kindergarten
programs and first, second and third grades that a pupil who obtains a score on
the reading portion of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a
successor test, that demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third
grade level will not be promoted from the third grade.If the school
has determined that the pupil is substantially deficient in reading before the
end of grade three, the school district or charter school shall provide to the
parent of that pupil a separate written notification of the reading deficiency
that includes the following information:
1.A description of the current reading services
provided to the pupil.
2.A description of the available supplemental
instructional services and supporting programs that are designed to remediate
reading deficiencies. Each school district or charter school shall offer at
least one intervention strategy and at least one remedial strategy for pupils
with reading deficiencies.The notification shall list the
intervention and remedial strategies offered and shall instruct the parent or
guardian to choose the strategy that will be implemented for that child.
3.Parental strategies to assist the pupil to attain
reading proficiency.
4.A statement that the pupil will not be promoted
from the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third grade level, unless the pupil
is exempt from mandatory retention in grade three or the pupil qualifies for an
exemption pursuant to subsection A of this section.
5.A description of the school district or charter
school policies on midyear promotion to a higher grade.
C.Pursuant to the guidelines that the state board
of education distributes, the governing board of a school district shall:
1.Prescribe curricula that include the academic
standards in the required subject areas pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1
of this section.
2.Prescribe criteria for the promotion of pupils
from grade to grade in the common schools in the school
district.These criteria shall include accomplishment of the
academic standards in at least reading, writing, mathematics, science and
social studies, as determined by district assessment.Other criteria
may include additional measures of academic achievement and attendance.
D.The governing board may prescribe the course of
study and competency requirements for promotion that are in addition to or
higher than the course of study and competency requirements the state board
prescribes.
E.A teacher shall determine whether to promote or
retain a pupil in grade in a common school as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4 on the basis of the prescribed criteria.The governing
board, if it reviews the decision of a teacher to promote or retain a pupil in
grade in a common school as provided in section 15342, paragraph 11,
shall base its decision on the prescribed criteria.
F.A governing board may provide and issue
certificates of promotion to pupils whom it promotes from the eighth grade of a
common school. Such certificates shall be signed by the principal or
superintendent of schools. Where there is no principal or superintendent of
schools, the certificates shall be signed by the teacher of an eighth
grade.The certificates shall admit the holders to any high school
in the state.
G.Within any high school district or union high
school district, the superintendent of the high school district shall supervise
the work of the eighth grade of all schools employing no superintendent or
principal.
H.A school district shall not deny a pupil who is
between the ages of sixteen and twentyone years admission to a high
school because the pupil does not hold an eighth grade
certificate.Governing boards shall establish procedures for
determining the admissibility of pupils who are under sixteen years of age and
who do not hold eighth grade certificates.
I.The state board of education shall adopt rules to
allow common school pupils who can demonstrate competency in a particular
academic course or subject to obtain academic credit for the course or subject
without enrolling in the course or subject.
J.A school district may conduct a ceremony to honor
pupils who have been promoted from the eighth grade.
K.For the purposes of this section,
"dyslexia" means a brain-based learning difference that impairs a
person's ability to read and spell, that is independent of intelligence and that
typically causes a person to read at levels lower than expected. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-741, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-741.Assessment of pupils; parental opt out
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Adopt rules for purposes of this article pursuant
to title 41, chapter6.
2.Adopt and implement an Arizona instrument to
measure standards test to measure pupil achievement of the state board adopted
academic standards in reading, writing and mathematics in at least four grades
designated by the board. The board shall determine the manner of
implementation. The board may administer assessments of the academic standards
in social studies and science, except that a pupil shall not be required to
meet or exceed the social studies or science standards measured by the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test.
3.Ensure that the tests prescribed in this section
are uniform throughout the state.
4.Ensure that the tests prescribed in this section
are able to be scored in an objective manner and that the tests are not
intended to advocate any sectarian, partisan or denominational viewpoint.
5.Include within its budget all costs pertaining to
the tests prescribed in this article.If sufficient monies are
appropriated, the state board may provide achievement test services to school
districts that request assistance in testing pupils in grades additional to
those required by this section.
6.Survey teachers, principals and superintendents
on achievement related achievementrelated nontest
indicators, including information on graduation rates by ethnicity and dropout
rates by ethnicity for each grade level. Before the survey, the state board of
education shall approve at a public meeting the nontest indicators on which
data will be collected. In conducting the survey and collecting data, the
state board of education shall not violate the provisions of the family
educational rights and privacy act (P.L. 93380), as amended, nor
disclose personally identifiable information.
7.Establish a fair and consistent method and
standard by which test scores from schools in a district may be evaluated
taking into consideration demographic data.The board shall
establish intervention strategies to assist schools with scores below the
acceptable standard.The board shall annually review district and
school scores and shall offer assistance to school districts in analyzing data
and implementing intervention strategies.The board shall use the
adopted test and methods of data evaluation for a period of at least ten years.
8.Participate in other assessments that provide
national comparisons as needed.
B.The achievement tests adopted by the state board
as provided in subsection A of this section shall be given at least
annually.Nontest indicator data and other information shall be
collected at the same time as the collection of achievement test data.
C.Local school district governing boards shall:
1.Administer the tests prescribed in subsection A
of this section.
2.Survey teachers, principals and superintendents
on achievement related nontest indicator data as required by the state board,
including information related to district graduation and dropout rates. In
conducting the survey and collecting data, the governing board shall not
violate the provisions of the family educational rights and privacy act (P.L.
93380), as amended, nor disclose personally identifiable information.
D.Any additional assessments for high school pupils
that are adopted by the state board of education after November 24, 2009 shall
be designed to measure college and career readiness of pupils.
E.A test for penmanship shall not be required
pursuant to this article.
F.A parent,
on behalf of that parent's child, may opt out of the statewide assessments that
are prescribed in this article. The state board of education shall develop and
make available a form for parents to sign and submit to the school principal or
head teacher in order to opt their children out of the statewide assessments
prescribed in this article. If a parent opts out of the statewide assessments:
1.The lack
of assessment results for that child may not be factored into the school or
school district achievement profile classification assigned pursuant to section
15241.
2.The lack
of assessment results for that child may not be factored into the information
contained on the school report card distributed pursuant to section 15-746.
3.The lack
of assessment results for that child may not be factored into performance
classifications adopted pursuant to section 15203, subsection A,
paragraph 38 or performance based compensation systems adopted pursuant to
section 15977.
4.and If
the child is in the third grade, The school district or charter school shall
use an alternative other than a statewide assessment prescribed in section 15701
to determine whether that pupil's reading ability is sufficient to promote that
pupil from the third grade.
5.and If
the school district or charter school requires a passing score on a statewide
assessment as a requirement to graduate from high school, the school district
or charter school shall use an ALTERNATIVE other than a statewide assessment to
determine whether that pupil has satisfied that portion of the graduation
requirements.
G.Subsection
F of this section does not apply to the civics portion of the naturalization
test prescribed in section 15-701.01. END_STATUTE

