



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: county boundary change; study committee







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2040









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem, Borrelli: Barton, Livingston





AN ACT

establishing a
joint committee on county boundary changes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Joint committee on county boundary changes; membership;
duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The joint committee on county boundary changes is
established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who represent different political parties. The
president of the senate shall designate one of these members to serve as
cochairperson of the committee.
2.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who represent
different political parties. The speaker of the house of representatives shall
designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
3.One representative who is from a county with a
population of more than sixty thousand persons but less than one hundred
thousand persons and who is appointed by the governor.
4.One representative who is from a county with a
population of more than one hundred thousand persons but less than one hundred
thirty thousand persons and who is appointed by the president of the senate.
5.One representative who is from a county with a
population of more than one hundred thirtytwo thousand persons but less
than one hundred fifty thousand persons and who is appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives.
6.One representative who is a member of the Navajo
Nation and who is appointed by the Navajo Nation.
7.One representative who is a member of the Hopi
Tribe and who is appointed by the Hopi Tribe.
B.The committee shall study:
1.The feasibility of changing county boundaries,
including the fiscal and related impacts of county boundary changes.
2.The economic impact of changing county boundaries
on specific counties that the committee determines are likely to pursue a
boundary change.
C.The committee shall submit a report regarding the
committee's findings and recommendations on or before December 31, 2016 to the
governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives and provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
D.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2017.

