



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: post-9/11 veteran education relief fund







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2033









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Boyer, Cobb, Fann: Finchem





AN ACT

Amending title
41, chapter 3, article 7.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 41612;
relating to veterans' education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 3, article 7.1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-612, to read:
START_STATUTE41-612.Post-9/11 veteran education relief fund; advisory
committee; committee termination; definitions
A.The
post-9/11 veteran education relief fund is established consisting of private
donations, grants, bequests and any other monies.The department
shall administer the fund.Monies in the fund are continuously
appropriated to the department solely for the purposes prescribed in this
section. On notice from the director, the state treasurer shall invest and
divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, and monies earned from
investment shall be credited to the fund.
B.The
post-9/11 veteran education relief advisory committee is established consisting
of the following members:
1.The
director or the director's designee.
2.One
member who is recommended by the Arizona board of regents.
3.One
member who holds a certificate from the state board of education and who has
teaching experience that includes high school education or one public member
who has teaching experience at a postsecondary institution.
4.One
member who is an active duty or reserve member of the uniformed services of the
United States or national guard or who has retired from active duty or reserve
or national guard status and who has served as a command career counselor or in
a regular assignment that included oversight of training or education programs.
5.Two
public members who have professional experience in human resource management.
6.One
member from an education profession who is employed by a public or private
school entity.
7.Two
members who are military members or family members of military members.
C.Except
for the director, the governor shall appoint the members based on
recommendations by the director, the adjutant general, the Arizona board of
regents and commanders of military bases or reserve centers in this
state.Appointed members shall serve for a term of two years that
may be extended or renewed by the governor at the recommendation of the
director.The advisory committee shall elect a chairperson from
among the appointed members.
D.The advisory committee shall:
1.Establish criteria for the use of monies in
the fund.
2.Establish and revise as necessary the
application process for financial assistance.
3.Review
and evaluate applications.
4.Make
other recommendations as necessary.
E.The
advisory committee may meet in executive session, with notice pursuant to
section 38-431.02, to review and evaluate applications. Applications for
financial assistance and all committee considerations and evaluations of the
applications are confidential.
F.The
monies in the fund shall be used to provide financial assistance pursuant to
this subsection. A qualifying military veteran may apply for financial
assistance for the cost of tuition at a university that is under the jurisdiction of the Arizona
board of regents and that is an Arizona veteran
supportive campus as defined in section 41609.The assistance
shall be based on financial need up to the amount of tuition that the
qualifying military veteran was charged in the last year that the veteran
received benefits under the post-9/11 veterans educational assistance act of
2008 (P.L.110252; 122 Stat. 2357; 38 United States Code sections
3301 through 3325). The advisory committee shall make tuition assistance
payments directly to the university.
G.The advisory committee shall adopt rules to
carry out the purposes of this section that include both the following:
1.A mechanism to publicize the availability of financial
assistance to potential qualifying military veterans.
2.A procedure to ensure that financial assistance awards made
before a military veteran withdraws from a university due to military
activation remain available on reentry to a university. 
H.The
committee established by this section ends on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section
413103.
I.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Department"
means the department of veterans' services.
2."Director"
means the director of the department of veterans' services.
3."Military
member" includes an active duty, reserve or retired member of the
uniformed services of the United States or national guard, a veteran who is a
member of a veterans' organization or a veteran who has a service-connected
disability.
4."Qualifying
military veteran" means a person who meets all of the following
requirements:
(a)Is eligible for in-state tuition
status pursuant to section 151802, subsection G.
(b)Is attending a university that
is under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents and that is an
Arizona veteran supportive campus as defined in section41609.
(c)Maintains a grade point average
of at least 2.2 on a 4.0 scale, or the equivalent.
(d)Has qualified for benefits under
the post-9/11 veterans educational assistance act of 2008 (P.L. 110-252; 122 Stat. 2357; 38 United States Code sections 3301
through 3325).
(e)Has not transferred any portion
of the person's benefits under the program to a dependent.
(f)Is within one year of completion
of the person's first baccalaureate degree as a full-time student or within two
years of completion of the person's first baccalaureate degree as a part-time
student. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Initial terms of members of the post-9/11 veteran
education relief advisory committee
A.Notwithstanding section 41612, Arizona
Revised Statutes, the initial terms of members of the post9/11 veteran
education relief advisory committee who are appointed pursuant to section 41612,
subsection C, Arizona Revised Statutes, are:
1.Four terms ending January 1, 2017.
2.Four terms ending January 1, 2018.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.

