



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: cosmetology; omnibus







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2035









Introduced by
Representative
  Gowan





AN ACT

amending sections
32-502, 32-510, 32-511, 32-512, 32-516, 32-531, 32-532 and 32-574, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to cosmetology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-502, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-502.Board of cosmetology; members; appointment;
qualifications; terms
A.A
The board of cosmetology
is established consisting of the following seven members who are appointed by
the governor:
1.Two cosmetologists who have been actively
practicing in this state for at least three years immediately preceding
appointment.
2.One nail technician who has been actively
practicing in this state for at least three years immediately preceding
appointment.
3.One instructor who has been actively practicing
in this state for at least three years immediately preceding appointment.
4.One school owner.
5.One
educator who does not represent the cosmetology or nail technology industry and
is not involved in the manufacture of cosmetology or nail technology products.
6.5.One Two public member members
who is are not and has
have never been associated with the cosmetology or nail
technology industry, licensed as a cosmetologist or nail technician or involved
in the manufacture of cosmetology or nail technology products.
B.The term of office for members is three years
beginning and ending June 22.
C.The governor may remove board members for neglect
of duty, malfeasance or misfeasance. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-510, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-510.Aestheticians; applications; qualifications
A person is entitled to receive an aesthetician's license if
the person:
1.Submits to the board an application for an
aesthetician's license on a form supplied by the board.
2.Does
either of the following:
(a)Completes and
receives appropriate credits for at least two years of high school education or
its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules and submits to the board
satisfactory evidence that the person is at least sixteen years of age.
(b)submits to the board
satisfactory evidence that the person is at least twenty-four years of age.
3.Submits to the board satisfactory evidence of
either of the following:
(a)That the person is a graduate of an aesthetician
school in another state or country that has substantially the same requirements
as this state for schools licensed pursuant to this chapter.
(b)That the person is a graduate of an aesthetician
course consisting of at least six hundred hours of training in a school
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
4.Passes the examination for an aesthetician's
license.
5.Pays the prescribed fees for an aesthetician's
license. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-511, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-511.Cosmetologists; applications; qualifications
A person is entitled to receive a cosmetologist license if the
person:
1.Submits to the board an application for a
cosmetologist license on a form supplied by the board.
2.Does
either of the following:
(a)Completes and
receives appropriate credits for at least two years of high school education or
its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules and submits satisfactory
evidence that the person is at least sixteen years of age.
(b)submits to the board
satisfactory evidence that the person is at least twenty-four years of age.
3.Submits to the board satisfactory evidence of
either of the following:
(a)That the person is a graduate of a cosmetology
course consisting of at least sixteen hundred hours of training in a school
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
(b)That the person is a graduate of a cosmetology
school in another state or country that had at the time of the person's
graduation substantially the same requirements as this state for schools
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
4.Passes the examination for a cosmetologist
license.
5.Pays the prescribed fees. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 32-512, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-512.Nail technicians; applications; qualifications
A person is entitled to receive a license to practice nail
technology if the person does all of the following:
1.Submits to the board an application for a nail
technician license on a form supplied by the board.
2.Does
either of the following:
(a)Completes and
receives appropriate credits for at least two years of high school education or
its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules and submits satisfactory
evidence that the person is at least sixteen years of age.
(b)submits
to the board satisfactory evidence that the person is at least twenty-four
years of age.
3.Submits to the board satisfactory evidence of
either of the following:
(a)That the person graduated from a nail technology
school in another state or country that had at the time of the person's
graduation substantially the same requirements as this state for schools
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
(b)That the person completed a nail technician
course consisting of at least six hundred hours of training in a school
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
4.Pays the prescribed fees for a nail technician
license.
5.Passes the examination for a nail technician
license. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-516, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-516.Aestheticians; cosmetologists; cosmetic laser and IPL
device use; certification; fees; definitions
A.An aesthetician or a cosmetologist who wishes to
perform cosmetic laser procedures and procedures using IPL devices must:
1.Apply for and receive a certificate from the
agency.
2.Comply with the requirements of this section and
agency rules.
3.Successfully complete forty hours of didactic
training as required by agency rules at an agencycertified training program. The
program shall provide a provisional certificate to the applicant verifying the
successful completion of the didactic training.
4.For hair removal, complete hands-on training that
is supervised by a health professional who is acting within the health
professional's scope of practice or by a laser technician who has a minimum of
one hundred hours of hands-on experience per procedure.The health
professional or laser technician must be present in the room during twenty-four
hours of handson use of lasers or IPL devices.The
supervising health professional or laser technician shall verify that the
aesthetician or cosmetologist has
completed the training and supervision as prescribed by this section.
5.For other cosmetic laser and IPL device
procedures, complete a minimum of an additional twenty-four hours of handson
training of at least ten cosmetic procedures for each type of specific
procedure that is supervised by a health professional who is acting within the
health professional's scope of practice or by a laser technician who has a
minimum of one hundred hours of hands-on experience per
procedure.The health professional or laser technician must be
present in the room during twentyfour hours of hands-on use of lasers or
IPL devices.The supervising health professional or laser technician
shall verify that the aesthetician or cosmetologist has completed the training
and supervision as prescribed by this section.
6.Submit to the agency the provisional certificate
from the training program and certification by the health professional or laser
technician who directly supervised the applicant in the room during the
hands-on training.
B.The agency shall issue a laser technician
certificate authorizing the aesthetician or cosmetologist to use lasers and IPL
devices if the applicant has completed the training for hair removal or lasers
and IPL devices for other cosmetic procedures, as applicable, and shall
maintain a current register of those laser technicians in good standing and
whether certification is for hair removal only or other cosmetic procedures as
well. The agency may establish a fee for the registration of aestheticians or
cosmetologists as laser technicians and the issuance of certificates pursuant
to this subsection.The agency shall deposit monies collected
pursuant to this subsection in the laser safety fund established by section 323234.
C.An aesthetician or a cosmetologist who has been
certified as a laser technician by the agency may use a laser or IPL device:
1.For hair removal under the indirect supervision
of a health professional whose scope of practice permits the supervision.
2.For cosmetic purposes other than hair removal if
the aesthetician or cosmetologist is directly
supervised by under the
indirect supervision of a health professional whose scope of
practice permits the supervision and the aesthetician or cosmetologist has been
certified in those procedures.
D.The board shall investigate any complaint from
the public or from another board or agency regarding a licensed aesthetician or
cosmetologist who performs cosmetic laser procedures or procedures using IPL
devices pursuant to this section. The board shall report to the agency any
complaint it receives about the training or performance of an aesthetician or a
cosmetologist who is certified as a laser technician.
E.An aesthetician or a cosmetologist who used laser and IPL devices before
November 24, 2009 may continue to do so if the aesthetician or cosmetologist
received a certificate pursuant to this section before October1, 2010. 
F.For the purposes of this section:
1."Agency" means the radiation regulatory
agency.
2."Directly supervised" means a health
professional who is licensed in this state and whose scope of practice allows
the supervision supervises the use of a laser or IPL device for cosmetic
purposes while the health professional is present at the facility where and
when the device is being used.
3."Health professional" means a person
who is licensed pursuant to either:
(a)Chapter 11, article 2 of this title and who
specializes in oral and maxillofacial surgery.
(b)Chapter 13, 14, 15, 17 or 25 of this title.
4."Indirect supervision" means
supervision by a health professional who is licensed in this state, whose scope
of practice allows the supervision and who is readily accessible by
telecommunication.
5."IPL device" means an intense pulse
light class II surgical device certified in accordance with the standards of
the agency for cosmetic procedures.
6."Laser" means any device that can
produce or amplify electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths in the range of
one hundred eighty nanometers to one millimeter primarily by the process of
controlled stimulated emission and certified in accordance with the standards
for the agency for cosmetic procedures.
7."Laser technician" means a person who
is or has been certified by the agency pursuant to its rules and chapter 32,
article 2 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 32-531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-531.Instructors; applications; qualifications
A person is entitled to receive a license to teach cosmetology,
aesthetics or nail technology in a school if the person does all of the
following:
1.Submits to the board an application for an
instructor license on a form prescribed by the board.
2.Either:
(a)Holds a diploma
from a high school or its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules
and submits to the board satisfactory evidence that the person is at least
sixteen years of age.
(b)submits to the board
satisfactory evidence that the person is at least twenty-four years of age.
3.Is a licensed cosmetologist, aesthetician or nail
technician and complies with either of the following:
(a)Has practiced for at least one year, has passed
the school examination and has received the following hours of instructor
training:
(i)For a cosmetologist instructor, six hundred
fifty hours.
(ii)For an aesthetics instructor, five hundred
hours.
(iii)For a nail technician instructor, three
hundred fifty hours.
(b)Has five years of licensed industry experience
within the ten years preceding the application and meets requirements as
prescribed by the board in its rules.
4.Passes the examination for an instructor license.
5.Pays the prescribed fees. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 32-532, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-532.Instructor reciprocity
Notwithstanding section 32531, a person is entitled to
receive a license to teach cosmetology, aesthetics or nail technology in a
school ifthe person submits to the board an application for an instructor
license on a form prescribed by the board, pays the prescribed fees and
complies with one of the following:
1.Is a current licensed cosmetologist, aesthetician
or nail technician instructor in another state or country.
2.Does all of the following:
(a)Either:
(i)Submits to the board
satisfactory evidence that the person is at least twenty-four years of age.
(ii)Holds a diploma
from a high school or its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules
and submits to the board satisfactory evidence that the person is at least
sixteen years of age.
(b)Is a licensed cosmetologist, aesthetician or
nail technician in another state or country.
(c)Completes instructor training in another state
or country that has instructor education requirements that are at least
substantially equivalent to those of this state.
(d)Passes the examination for an instructor
license.
3.Does all of
the following:
(a)(e)Has five years of licensed
industry experience within the ten years preceding application.
(b)Holds a
high school diploma or its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules
and submits to the board satisfactory evidence that the person is at least
sixteen years of age.
(c)(f)Meets requirements as prescribed
by the board in its rules.
(d)Passes the
examination for an instructor license. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-574, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-574.Unlawful acts; violation; classification
A.A person shall not:
1.Perform or attempt to perform cosmetology,
aesthetics or nail technology without a license in that category issued
pursuant to this chapter, or practice in a category in which the person does
not hold a license.
2.Display a sign or in any way advertise or hold
oneself out as a cosmetologist, aesthetician or nail technician or as being
engaged in the practice or business of cosmetology, aesthetics or nail
technology without being licensed pursuant to this chapter.
3.Knowingly make a false statement on an
application for a license pursuant to this chapter.
4.Permit an employee or another person under the
person's supervision or control to perform cosmetology, aesthetics or nail
technology without a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
5.Practice or attempt to practice cosmetology,
aesthetics or nail technology in any place other than in a salon licensed
pursuant to this chapter unless the person is requested by a customer to go to
a place other than a salon licensed pursuant to this chapter and is sent to the
customer from the salon, except that a person who is licensed pursuant to this
chapter may practice, without the salon's request, cosmetology, aesthetics or
nail technology in a health care facility, hospital, residential care
institution, nursing home or residence of a person requiring home care because
of an illness, infirmity or disability.
6.Obtain or attempt to obtain a license by the use
of money other than the prescribed fees or any other thing of value or by
fraudulent misrepresentation.
7.Provide any service to a person having a visible
disease, pediculosis or open sores suggesting a communicable disease until the
person furnishes a statement signed by a physician licensed pursuant to chapter
13 or 17 of this title stating that the disease or condition is not in an
infectious, contagious or communicable stage.
8.Operate a salon or school without being licensed
pursuant to this chapter.
9.Violate any provision of this chapter or any rule
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
10.Ignore or fail to comply with a board subpoena.
11.Use the title of "aesthetician",
"cosmetologist" or "nail technician" or any other title or
term likely to be confused with "aesthetician",
"cosmetologist" or "nail technician" in any advertisement,
statement or publication unless that person is licensed pursuant to this
chapter.
12.Teach
cosmetology, aesthetics or nail technology in this state unless the person is
licensed as an instructor pursuant to article 3 of this chapter.
B.An instructor shall not render cosmetology,
aesthetics or nail technology services in a school unless the services are
directly incidental to the instruction of students.
C.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Term of educator board member
Notwithstanding section 32-502, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by this act, a person who is serving as an educator member on the board
of cosmetology on the effective date of this act is eligible to continue to
serve until expiration of the current term of office. On the expiration of the
educator member's term, the governor shall make all subsequent appointments as
prescribed by statute.

