



PREFILED JAN 11 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: e-rate program fund; technical
  correction







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2085









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending section
41-3508, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to government information
technology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-3508, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3508.Statewide e-rate program fund
A.The statewide e-rate program fund is
established. The department shall administer the fund. The statewide erate
program fund shall consist of:
1.Monies received pursuant to the e-rate program
under the telecommunications act of 1996 or other grants to assist this state
in improving broadband internet and telecommunications access for public
schools and libraries in this state.
2.Monies received as a result of an
intergovernmental agreement between the department and other political
subdivisions of this state.
3.Monies received from private grants or donations
if designated for the fund by the grantor or donor.
B.Monies in the fund shall be used to assist public
school districts, charter schools and libraries to submit applications for
funding pursuant to subsection C of
this section and to fulfill the terms of an intergovernmental
agreement or private contract pursuant to subsection D of this section.
C.Subject to the conditions of subsection E of this section and in
cooperation with the Arizona state library, archives and public records, the
department shall develop policies and procedures for the e-rate application for
public school districts, charter schools and libraries in this state, including
providing technical assistance.
D.The department may enter into contracts with
private organizations and intergovernmental agreements with other state
agencies and political subdivisions of this state to administer the statewide
e-rate program.
E.Participation in the e-rate program by libraries
is voluntary. The Arizona state library, archives and public records shall
determine e-rate eligibility applications. END_STATUTE

