



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: election of judges; terms; salary







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2039









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem: Cobb, Lawrence, Senator Burges





AN ACT

amending sections
12101, 12-102, 12-106, 12-120.01, 12-120.02, 12-120.03, 12-120.07 and
12-128, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 12-131, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing title 12, chapter 23, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections
16-502, 16-901, 16-913, 16-916, 16-918, 19-123, 19-201, 38-431.08 and 411232.04,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the election of judges.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 12-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-101.Justices; number; term; election
The supreme court shall consist of five judges
justices.The term of office of each judge
justice shall be six
four years and shall take
effect on the first Monday in January of the year in which it
begins.Judges Justices shall be elected at
the general election next preceding the expiration of a term of office. The election for justices shall only occur in
years that do not have a presidential election.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 12-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-102.Jurisdiction and duties; court appointments; contract and
volunteer service providers; background investigations; fingerprinting
A.The supreme court shall discharge the duties
imposed and exercise the jurisdiction conferred by the constitution and by law.
B.As a condition of appointment to any paid
position in the judicial department that is defined as a noncriminal justice
agency under federal law, including
nomination for judicial office by the commissions on appellate and trial court
appointments pursuant to article VI, sections 37 and 41, Constitution of
Arizona, the court shall require each applicant to furnish a full
set of fingerprints to enable the court to conduct a criminal background
investigation to determine the suitability of the applicant.The
court shall submit the completed applicant fingerprint card to the department
of public safety. The applicant shall bear the cost of obtaining the
applicant's criminal history record information.The cost shall not
exceed the actual cost of obtaining the applicant's criminal history record
information. Applicant criminal history records checks shall be conducted
pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.The
department of public safety is authorized to exchange the submitted applicant
fingerprint card information with the federal bureau of investigation for a
national criminal history records check.
C.The court may require each person who provides
contract or volunteer services in the judicial department that is defined as a
noncriminal justice agency under federal law to furnish a full set of
fingerprints to enable the court to conduct a criminal background
investigation. The court shall submit the person's completed fingerprint card
to the department of public safety.The person shall bear the cost
of obtaining the person's criminal history record information.The
cost shall not exceed the actual cost of obtaining the person's criminal
history record information.Criminal history records checks shall be
conducted pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.The
department of public safety is authorized to exchange the person's submitted
fingerprint card information with the federal bureau of investigation for a
national criminal history records check. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
12-106, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-106.Salary of justices; mileage allowance
A.Each
justice of the supreme court shall receive an annual salary pursuant to section 411904 that is equal to the rate of the annual
salary for a member of the state legislature.
B.Each justice of the supreme court shall
receive a mileage allowance for travel from the justice's residence to the
supreme court by the shortest practical route. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 12-120.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-120.01.Qualifications of judges; terms; ballots; vacancies
A.A judge of the court of appeals shall be:
1.Not less than thirty years of age.
2.Of good moral character.
3.A qualified elector of the county of his
residence, and a resident of such county for not less than three years next
preceding taking office.
4.A resident of the division in which he is
elected.
5.Admitted to the practice of law in the state of
Arizona for not less than five years next preceding taking office.
6.A resident of Arizona for not less than five
years next preceding taking office.
B.Except for the initial term, each judge shall
hold office for a term of six
four years to commence on
the first Monday in January following his
retention the judge's election
and until his the judge's successor is appointed and qualified elected.Each judge shall be appointed by the governor
and serve an initial term pursuant to article VI, section 37, Constitution of
Arizona. The names of all
candidates for judge of the court of appeals shall be placed on the regular
ballot without partisan or other designation except the court and the title of
the office. The election for a judge of the court of appeals shall only occur
in years that do not have a presidential election.
C.the
governor shall fill any vacancy in office by appointing a person to serve until
the election and qualification of a successor At the next succeeding general
election.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 12-120.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-120.02.Election of judges
A.In division 1, of the fifteen judges who are on
the bench on July 1, 1995, ten of the judges shall be residents of and elected for retention from Maricopa
county and five of the judges shall be residents of the remaining counties in
the division and shall be elected for
retention by the voters of the counties in division 1, excluding
Maricopa county.If the sixteenth judge is a resident of Maricopa
county, the judge shall be elected for
retention by the voters of Maricopa county.If the
sixteenth judge is not a resident of Maricopa county, the judge shall be
elected for retention by
the voters of the counties in division 1, excluding Maricopa county.
B.In division 2, four of the judges shall be
residents of and elected from Pima county and two of the judges shall be
residents of the remaining counties in the division and shall be elected by the
voters of the counties in division 2, excluding Pima county. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 12-120.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-120.03.Salary of judges; mileage allowance
A.Each
judge of the court of appeals shall receive an annual salary pursuant to section 411904 that is equal to the rate of the annual
salary for a member of the state legislature.
B.Each judge of the court of appeals shall
receive a mileage allowance for travel from the judge's residence to the court
of appeals by the shortest practical route. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
12-120.07, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-120.07.Opinions; publication
A.The chief judge
shall assign three of the judges to each department, and such assignment may be
changed by him the chief judge from time to
time. Each of the departments shall have the power to hear and determine
causes and all questions arising therein.The presence of three
judges shall be necessary to transact any business in either of the departments, ; except such as may be done in chambers
and except as may be otherwise permitted by law.The opinions of a
division or of a department of the court of appeals shall be in writing, the
grounds stated, and shall be concurred in by a majority of a department if
heard by a department or of the division if heard by the division.An
opinion of a division or a department of a division shall be the opinion of the
court of appeals.
B.The opinions of the court of appeals shall be
published and distributed in the same manner as provided for the publication
and distribution of opinions of the supreme court.
C.Not later than sixty days preceding the regular
primary election for the retention
of an appellate court judge, the commission on judicial performance review
shall prepare and publish on its website a list of the decisions of that
appellate court judge including the decision's official citation and an
electronic copy of the entire text of the decision. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 12-128, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-128.Salary of judges; payment by state and counties; mileage
allowance
A.Judges
of the superior court shall each receive an annual salary pursuant to section 411904, which that is equal to the rate of the annual
salary for a member of the state legislature and that is payable
onehalf by this state and onehalf by the counties respectively,
except that in counties with a population of more than two million persons,
beginning in fiscal year 20102011, the county shall pay one hundred per cent percent of the annual salary.
B.Each judge of the superior court shall receive
a mileage allowance for travel from the judge's residence to the superior court
by the shortest practical route. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Repeal
Section 12-131,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.10.Repeal
Title 12, chapter 23, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.11.Section 16-502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-502.Form and contents of ballot
A.Ballots shall be printed with black ink on white
paper of sufficient thickness to prevent the printing thereon from being discernible
from the back, and the same type shall be used for the names of all
candidates. The ballots shall be headed "official ballot" in boldfaced
plain letters, with a heavy rule above and below the heading. Immediately
below shall be placed the words "type of election, (date of
election)" and the name of the county and state in which the election is
held. The name or number of the precinct in which the election is held shall
be placed on the ballot in a uniform location for all ballots. No other matter
shall be placed or printed at the head of any ballot, except above the heading
there may be a stub that contains the words "stub no. _____, register no.
_____, to be torn off by inspector." The stub shall be separated from the
ballot by a perforated line, so that it may be easily detached from the ballot.
Instructions to the voter on marking the ballot may be printed below the
heading. The official ballots shall be bound together in blocks of not less
than five nor more than one hundred.
B.Immediately below
the ballot heading shall be placed the following:
"Section One
Partisan
Ballot
1.Put a mark
according to the instructions next to the name of each candidate for each
partisan office for whom you wish to vote.
2.If you wish to vote for a person whose name is
not printed on the ballot, write such name in the blank space provided on the
ballot or writein envelope and put a mark according to the instructions
next to the name so written."
C.Immediately below the instructions for voting in
section one there shall be placed in columns the names of the candidates of the
several political parties. Next to each candidate's name there shall be
printed in boldfaced letters the name of the political party. At the
head of each column shall be printed the names of the offices to be filled with
the name of each office being of uniform type size. At the head of each column
shall be printed in the following order the names of candidates for:
1.Presidential electors, which shall be enclosed in
a bracketed list and next to the bracketed list shall be printed in bold type
the surname of the presidential candidate, and the surname of the vice-presidential candidate who is
seeking election jointly with the presidential candidate shall be listed
directly below the name of the presidential candidate.The indicator
for the selection of the presidential and vice-presidential candidates shall be
directly next to the surname of the presidential candidate, and one mark directly next to a presidential
candidate's surname shall be counted as a vote for each elector in the
bracketed list next to the presidential and vicepresidential candidates.
2.United States senator.
3.Representatives in Congress.
4.The several state offices.
5.The several county and precinct offices.
D.The names of candidates for the offices of state
senator and state representative along with the district number shall be placed
within the heading of each column to the right of the office name for state
offices and immediately below the candidates for the office of governor. The
number of the supervisorial district of which a candidate is a nominee shall be
printed within the heading of each column to the right of the name of the
office.
E.The lists of the candidates of the several parties
shall be arranged with the names of the parties in descending order according
to the votes cast for governor for that county in the most recent general
election for the office of governor, commencing with the lefthand
column. In the case of political parties which did not have candidates on the
ballot in the last general election, such parties shall be listed in
alphabetical order below the parties which did have candidates on the ballot in
the last general election. The names of all candidates nominated under section
16341 shall be placed in a single column below that of the recognized
parties. Next to the name of each candidate, in parentheses, shall be printed
a threeletter abbreviation that is taken from the three words prescribed
in the candidate's certificate of nomination.
F.Immediately below the designation of the office
to be voted for shall appear the words: "Vote for not more than
_________" (insert the number to be elected).
G.In each column at the right of the name of each
candidate and on the same line there shall be a place for the voter to put a
mark. Below the name of the last named candidate for each office there shall
be as many blank lines as there are offices of the same title to be filled,
with a place for the voter to put a mark unless writein envelopes are
provided for that purpose. Upon the blank line the voter may write the name of
any person for whom he desires to vote whose name is not printed, and next to
the name so written he shall designate his choice by a mark as in the case of
printed names.
H.When there are two or more candidates of the same
political party for the same office, or more than one candidate for a judicial
office, the names of all such candidates shall be so alternated on the ballots
used in each election district that the name of each candidate shall appear
substantially an equal number of times in each possible location. If there are
fewer or the same number of candidates seeking office than the number to be
elected, the rotation of names is not required and the names shall be placed in
alphabetical order.
I.Immediately below section one of the ballot shall
be placed the following:
"Section
Two
Nonpartisan Ballot
1.Put a mark according to the instructions next
to the name of each candidate for each nonpartisan office for whom you wish to
vote.
2.If you wish to vote for a person whose name is
not printed on the ballot, write such name in the blank space provided on the
ballot or writein envelope and put a mark according to the instructions
next to the name so written.
3.Put a mark according to the instructions next
to the word 'yes' (or for) for each proposition or question you wish to be
adopted. Put a mark according to the instructions next to the word 'no' (or
against) for each proposition or question you wish not to be adopted."
J.Immediately below the instructions for voting in
section two shall be placed the names of the candidates for judges of the
superior court standing for election pursuant to article VI, section 12,
Constitution of Arizona, school district officials, justices of the supreme
court, judges of the court of appeals,
judges of the superior court standing for retention or rejection pursuant to
article VI, section 38, Constitution of Arizona, and other
nonpartisan officials in a column or in columns without partisan or other
designation except the title of office in an order determined by the officer in
charge of the election.
K.Immediately below the offices listed in
subsection J of this section, the ballot shall contain a separate heading of
any nonpartisan office for a vacant unexpired term and shall include the
expiration date of the term of the vacated office.
L.All proposed constitutional amendments and other
propositions or questions to be submitted to the voters shall be printed
immediately below the names of candidates for nonpartisan positions in such
order as the secretary of state, or if a city or town election, the city or
town clerk, designates. Placement of county and local charter amendments,
propositions or questions shall be determined by the officer in charge of the
election. Except as provided by section 19125, each proposition or
question shall be followed by the words "yes" and "no" or
"for ______" and "against ______" as the nature of the proposition
or question requires, and at the right of and next to each of such words shall
be a place for the voter to put a mark according to the instructions that is
similar in size to those places appearing opposite the names of the candidates,
in which the voter may indicate his vote for or against such proposition or
question by a mark as defined in section 16400.
M.Instead of printing the official and descriptive
titles or the full text of each measure or question on the official ballot, the
officer in charge of elections may print phrases on the official ballot that
contain all of the following:
1.The number of the measure in reverse type and at
least twelve point type.
2.The designation of the measure as prescribed by
section 19125, subsection C or as a question, proposition or charter
amendment, followed by the words "relating to..." and inserting the
subject.
3.Either the statement prescribed by section 19125,
subsection D that describes the effects of a "yes" vote and a
"no" vote or, for other measures, the text of the question or
proposition.
4.The words "yes" and "no" or
"for" and "against", as may be appropriate and a place for
the voter to put a mark.
N.For any ballot printed pursuant to subsection M
of this section, the instructions on the official ballot shall direct the voter
to the full text of the official and descriptive titles and the questions and
propositions as printed on the sample ballot and posted in the polling place. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 16-901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agent" means, with respect to any
person other than a candidate, any person who has oral or written authority,
either express or implied, to make or authorize the making of expenditures as
defined in this section on behalf of a candidate, any person who has been
authorized by the treasurer of a political committee to make or authorize the
making of expenditures or a political consultant for a candidate or political
committee.
2."Candidate" means an individual who
receives or gives consent for receipt of a contribution for his nomination for
or election to any office in this state other than a federal office.
3."Candidate's campaign committee" means
a political committee designated and authorized by a candidate.
4."Clearly identified candidate" means
that the name, a photograph or a drawing of the candidate appears or the
identity of the candidate is otherwise apparent by unambiguous reference.
5."Contribution" means any gift,
subscription, loan, advance or deposit of money or anything of value made for
the purpose of influencing an election including supporting or opposing the
recall of a public officer or supporting or opposing the circulation of a
petition for a ballot measure, question or proposition or the recall of a
public officer and:
(a)Includes all of the following:
(i)A contribution made to retire campaign debt.
(ii)Money or the fair market value of anything
directly or indirectly given or loaned to an elected official for the purpose
of defraying the expense of communications with constituents, regardless of
whether the elected official has declared his candidacy.
(iii)The entire amount paid to a political
committee to attend a fundraising or other political event and the
entire amount paid to a political committee as the purchase price for a fundraising
meal or item, except that no contribution results if the actual cost of the
meal or fundraising item, based on the amount charged to the committee
by the vendor, constitutes the entire amount paid by the purchaser for the meal
or item, the meal or item is for the purchaser's personal use and not for
resale and the actual cost is the entire amount paid by the purchaser in
connection with the event.This exception does not apply to auction
items.
(iv)Unless specifically exempted, the provision of
goods or services without charge or at a charge that is less than the usual and
normal charge for such goods and services. The acquisition or use of campaign
assets by a committee that are paid for with the candidate's personal monies,
including campaign signs and other similar promotional materials, is a
contribution and is reportable by the candidate's campaign committee as a
contribution to the campaign.
(b)Does not include
any of the following:
(i)The value of
services provided without compensation by any individual who volunteers on
behalf of a candidate, a candidate's campaign committee or any other political
committee.
(ii)Money or the value of anything directly or
indirectly provided to defray the expense of an elected official meeting with
constituents if the elected official is engaged in the performance of the
duties of his office or provided by the state or a political subdivision to an
elected official for communication with constituents if the elected official is
engaged in the performance of the duties of his office.
(iii)The use of real or personal property,
including a church or community room used on a regular basis by members of a
community for noncommercial purposes, that is obtained by an individual in the
course of volunteering personal services to any candidate, candidate's
committee or political party, and the cost of invitations, food and beverages
voluntarily provided by an individual to any candidate, candidate's campaign
committee or political party in rendering voluntary personal services on the
individual's residential premises or in the church or community room for
candidaterelated or political partyrelated activities, to the
extent that the cumulative value of the invitations, food and beverages
provided by the individual on behalf of any single candidate does not exceed
one hundred dollars with respect to any single election.
(iv)Any unreimbursed payment for personal travel
expenses made by an individual who on his own behalf volunteers his personal
services to a candidate.
(v)The payment by a political party for party
operating expenses, party staff and personnel, party newsletters and reports,
voter registration and efforts to increase voter turnout, party organization
building and maintenance and printing and postage expenses for slate cards,
sample ballots, other written materials that substantially promote three or
more nominees of the party for public office and other election activities not
related to a specific candidate, except that this item does not apply to costs
incurred with respect to a display of the listing of candidates made on
telecommunications systems or in newspapers, magazines or similar types of
general circulation advertising.
(vi)Independent expenditures.
(vii)Monies loaned by a state bank, a federally chartered
depository institution or a depository institution the deposits or accounts of
which are insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation or the national
credit union administration, other than an overdraft made with respect to a
checking or savings account, that is made in accordance with applicable law and
in the ordinary course of business. In order for this exemption to apply, this
loan shall be deemed a loan by each endorser or guarantor, in that proportion
of the unpaid balance that each endorser or guarantor bears to the total number
of endorsers or guarantors, the loan shall be made on a basis that assures
repayment, evidenced by a written instrument, shall be subject to a due date or
amortization schedule and shall bear the usual and customary interest rate of
the lending institution.
(viii)A gift,
subscription, loan, advance or deposit of money or anything of value to a
national or a state committee of a political party specifically designated to
defray any cost for the construction or purchase of an office facility not
acquired for the purpose of influencing the election of a candidate in any
particular election.
(ix)Legal or accounting services rendered to or on
behalf of a political committee or a candidate, if the only person paying for
the services is the regular employer of the individual rendering the services
and if the services are solely for the purpose of compliance with this title.
(x)The payment by a political party of the costs of
campaign materials, including pins, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures,
posters, party tabloids and yard signs, used by the party in connection with
volunteer activities on behalf of any nominee of the party or the payment by a
state or local committee of a political party of the costs of voter
registration and getoutthevote activities conducted by the
committee if the payments are not for the costs of campaign materials or
activities used in connection with any telecommunication, newspaper, magazine,
billboard, direct mail or similar type of general public communication or
political advertising.
(xi)Transfers between political committees to
distribute monies raised through a joint fundraising effort in the same
proportion to each committee's share of the fundraising expenses and
payments from one political committee to another in reimbursement of a
committee's proportionate share of its expenses in connection with a joint fundraising
effort.
(xii)An extension of credit for goods and services
made in the ordinary course of the creditor's business if the terms are
substantially similar to extensions of credit to nonpolitical debtors that are
of similar risk and size of obligation and if the creditor makes a commercially
reasonable attempt to collect the debt, except that any extension of credit
under this item made for the purpose of influencing an election that remains
unsatisfied by the candidate after six months, notwithstanding good faith
collection efforts by the creditor, shall be deemed receipt of a contribution
by the candidate but not a contribution by the creditor.
(xiii)Interest or dividends earned by a political
committee on any bank accounts, deposits or other investments of the political
committee.
6."Earmarked" means a designation,
instruction or encumbrance that results in all or any part of a contribution or
expenditure being made to, or expended on behalf of, a clearly identified
candidate or a candidate's campaign committee.
7."Election" means any election for any
initiative, referendum or other ballot measure, question or proposition or a
primary, general, recall, special or runoff election for any office in this
state other than the office of precinct committeeman and other than a federal
office.For the purposes of sections 16903 and 16905,
the general election includes the primary election.
8."Election cycle" means the period
beginning twentyone days after a general election and ending twenty days
after the next successive general election for a particular elected office for
the purposes of sections 16903 and 16-905.
9."Expenditures" includes any purchase,
payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift of money or anything of
value made by a person for the purpose of influencing an election in this state
including supporting or opposing the recall of a public officer or supporting
or opposing the circulation of a petition for a ballot measure, question or
proposition or the recall of a public officer and a contract, promise or
agreement to make an expenditure resulting in an extension of credit and the
value of any inkind contribution received.Expenditure does
not include any of the following:
(a)A news story, commentary or editorial
distributed through the facilities of any telecommunications system, newspaper,
magazine or other periodical publication, unless the facilities are owned or
controlled by a political committee, political party or candidate.
(b)Nonpartisan activity designed to encourage
individuals to vote or to register to vote.
(c)The payment by a political party of the costs of
preparation, display, mailing or other distribution incurred by the party with
respect to any printed slate card, sample ballot or other printed listing of
three or more candidates for any public office for which an election is held,
except that this subdivision does not apply to costs incurred by the party with
respect to a display of any listing of candidates made on any
telecommunications system or in newspapers, magazines or similar types of
general public political advertising.
(d)The payment by a political party of the costs of
campaign materials, including pins, bumper stickers, handbills, brochures,
posters, party tabloids and yard signs, used by the party in connection with
volunteer activities on behalf of any nominee of the party or the payment by a
state or local committee of a political party of the costs of voter
registration and getoutthevote activities conducted by the
committee if the payments are not for the costs of campaign materials or
activities used in connection with any telecommunications system, newspaper,
magazine, billboard, direct mail or similar type of general public
communication or political advertising.
(e)Any deposit or other payment filed with the
secretary of state or any other similar officer to pay any portion of the cost
of printing an argument in a publicity pamphlet advocating or opposing a ballot
measure.
10."Exploratory committee" means a
political committee that is formed for the purpose of determining whether an
individual will become a candidate and that receives contributions or makes
expenditures of more than five hundred dollars in connection with that purpose.
11."Family contribution" means any
contribution that is provided to a candidate's campaign committee by a parent,
grandparent, spouse, child or sibling of the candidate or a parent or spouse of
any of those persons.
12."Filing officer" means the office that
is designated by section 16916 to conduct the duties prescribed by this
chapter.
13."Identification" means:
(a)For an individual, his name and mailing address,
his occupation and the name of his employer.
(b)For any other person, including a political
committee, the full name and mailing address of the person.For a
political committee, identification includes the identification number issued
on the filing of a statement of organization pursuant to section 16902.01.
14."Incomplete contribution" means any
contribution received by a political committee for which the contributor's
mailing address, occupation, employer or identification number has not been
obtained and is not in the possession of the political committee.
15."Independent expenditure" means an
expenditure by a person or political committee, other than a candidate's
campaign committee, that expressly advocates the election or defeat of a
clearly identified candidate, that is made without cooperation or consultation
with any candidate or committee or agent of the candidate and that is not made
in concert with or at the request or suggestion of a candidate, or any committee
or agent of the candidate. Independent expenditure includes an expenditure
that is subject to the requirements of section 16917, which requires a
copy of campaign literature or advertisement to be sent to a candidate named or
otherwise referred to in the literature or advertisement.
16."Inkind contribution" means a
contribution of goods or services or anything of value and not a monetary
contribution. The use by a candidate's campaign committee of a distinctive
trade name, trademark or trade dress item, including a logo, that is owned by a
business or other entity that is owned by that candidate or in which the
candidate has a controlling interest is deemed to be an inkind
contribution to the candidate's campaign committee and shall be reported as otherwise
prescribed by law.
17."Itemized" means that each
contribution received or expenditure made is set forth separately.
18."Literature or advertisement" means
information or materials that are mailed, distributed or placed in some medium
of communication for the purpose of influencing the outcome of an election.
19."Personal
monies" means any of the following:
(a)Except as
prescribed in paragraph 16 of this section, assets to which the candidate has a
legal right of access or control at the time he becomes a candidate and with
respect to which the candidate has either legal title or an equitable interest.
(b)Salary and other earned income from bona fide
employment of the candidate, dividends and proceeds from the sale of the stocks
or investments of the candidate, bequests to the candidate, income to the
candidate from trusts established before candidacy, income to the candidate
from trusts established by bequest after candidacy of which the candidate is a
beneficiary, gifts to the candidate of a personal nature that have been
customarily received before the candidacy and proceeds received by the
candidate from lotteries and other legal games of chance.
(c)The proceeds of loans obtained by the candidate
that are not contributions and for which the collateral or security is covered
by subdivision (a) or (b) of this paragraph.
(d)Family contributions.
20."Political committee" means any of the
following:
(a)A candidate or a candidate's campaign committee.
(b)A separate, segregated fund established pursuant
to section 16920, subsection A, paragraph 3.
(c)An association or combination of persons that
circulates petitions in support of the qualification of a ballot measure,
question or proposition.
(d)An association or combination of persons that
circulates a petition to recall a public officer.
(e)A political party.
(f)An association or combination of persons that
meets both of the following requirements:
(i)Is organized, conducted or combined for the
primary purpose of influencing the result of any election in this state or in
any county, city, town or other political subdivision in this state, including a judicial retention election.
(ii)Knowingly receives contributions or makes
expenditures of more than five hundred dollars in connection with any election
during a calendar year, including a
judicial retention election.
(g)A political organization.
(h)An exploratory committee.
21."Political organization" means an
organization that is formally affiliated with and recognized by a political
party including a district committee organized pursuant to section 16823.
22."Political party" means the state
committee as prescribed by section 16825 or the county committee as
prescribed by section 16821 of an organization that meets the
requirements for recognition as a political party pursuant to section 16801,
16802 or 16804.
23."Sponsoring organization" means any
organization that establishes, administers or contributes financial support to
the administration of, or that has common or overlapping membership or officers
with, a political committee other than a candidate's campaign committee.
24."Standing political committee" means a
political committee that satisfies all of the following:
(a)Is active in more than one reporting
jurisdiction in this state for more than one year.
(b)Files a statement of organization as prescribed
by section 16902.01, subsection F.
(c)Is any of the following as defined by paragraph
20 of this section:
(i)A separate, segregated fund.
(ii)A political party.
(iii)A political committee as prescribed by
paragraph 20, subdivision (f) of this section and that is organized for the
purpose of making independent expenditures.
(iv)A political organization.
25."Statewide office" means the office of
governor, secretary of state, state treasurer, attorney general, superintendent
of public instruction, corporation commissioner or mine inspector.
26."Surplus monies" means those monies of
a political committee remaining after all of the committee's expenditures have
been made and its debts have been extinguished.
Sec.13.Section 16-913, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-913.Campaign finance reports; reporting of receipts and
disbursements; exemptions; civil penalty
A.Except as provided in subsection K
J of this section, each political committee shall file campaign
finance reports in the format prescribed by the filing officer setting forth
the committee's receipts and disbursements according to the schedule prescribed
in subsections B and C of this section.
B.In any calendar year during which there is a
regularly scheduled election at which any candidates, measures, questions or
propositions appear or may appear on the ballot, the political committee shall
file each of the following campaign finance reports:
1.A report covering the period beginning January 1
through May 31, filed no later than June 30.
2.A preelection report,
that shall be filed not less than four days before any election and that shall
be complete through the twelfth day before the election.
3.A postelection report, that shall be filed not
more than thirty days after any election and that shall be complete through the
twentieth day after the election.
C.In any other calendar year, the political
committee shall file a report covering the period beginning twentyone
days after the date of the election in the preceding calendar year through
December 31 of the nonelection year filed no later than January 31 of the
following calendar year. For a special election for which the secretary of
state is the filing officer, a political committee that receives contributions
or makes expenditures to influence that election shall file the following:
1.For an initiative, referendum or recall, a
preelection report that is due within fifteen days of filing the petition with
the secretary of state and that is current
through the date the petition was filed.
2.A preelection report that is due within fifteen
days of the governor's proclamation calling the special election and that is current through the
date of the governor's proclamation.
3.A preelection report that is due as prescribed by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section.
4.A postelection report that is due as prescribed
by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section.
D.In the event that a political committee receives
no contributions and makes no expenditures during a period in which it is
required to file a campaign finance report, the committee treasurer or if the
treasurer is unavailable the candidate, in lieu of filing a report required by
subsection B of this section, may sign and file a form prescribed by the
secretary of state indicating no activity during the specific reporting period.
E.In lieu of the reports prescribed in subsections
B and C of this section, a candidate's political committee that remains active
after an election due to outstanding debts may file a document no later than
January 31 in a form prescribed by the secretary of state that states that the
committee does not intend to receive any contributions or make any expenditures
during the year.If a candidate's political committee does receive a
contribution or make an expenditure during that year, the committee shall report
as prescribed by subsection B or C of this section.
F.A judge who
has filed a declaration of the desire to be retained in office is exempt from
filing any report required by this section if the judge, not later than twelve
days before the general election, files a statement signed and sworn to by the
judge certifying that the judge has received no contributions, has made no
expenditures and has no campaign committee and that the judge does not intend
to receive contributions, make expenditures or have a campaign committee for
the purpose of influencing the result of the vote on the question of the
judge's retention.With respect to superior court judges, a
statement filed pursuant to this subsection is effective until the earlier of
twelve days before the third general election following the filing of this
statement or the judge receives contributions, makes expenditures or authorizes
a campaign committee.Such a statement filed by a supreme court
justice or a court of appeals judge is effective until the earlier of twelve
days before the fourth general election following the filing of this statement
or the justice or judge receives contributions, makes expenditures or
authorizes a campaign committee.
G.F.Reports in
connection with special or recall elections shall conform to the filing
deadlines set forth in subsections B and C of this section.
H.G.Except as
provided in section 16916, subsection B and subsection K
J of this section, a political committee shall comply with the
requirements of this section in each jurisdiction in this state in which the
committee has filed a statement of organization until the committee terminates
pursuant to section 16914, and its statements, designations and reports
shall be filed with each officer with whom it has filed a statement of
organization, as appropriate.
I.H.Each report
required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be signed by the committee
treasurer or the candidate or the designating individual if the treasurer is
unavailable and shall contain the certification of the signer under penalty of
perjury that the report is true and complete.
J.I.A political
committee and the candidate, in the case of a candidate's campaign committee,
or the designating individual, in the case of an exploratory committee, who
violate this section are subject to the penalty prescribed in section 16918.
K.J.A standing
political committee shall file reports with the secretary of state and is
exempt from filing a report with any other jurisdiction in which it is active.
The reports shall be in an electronic format as prescribed by the secretary of
state or by use of the internet. The secretary of state shall promptly make
the reports available to the public on the internet and shall make the reports available
by electronic means by request. The standing committee shall file the
following reports:
1.A preelection report that is due as prescribed by
subsection B, paragraph 2 of this section shall be filed for each consolidated
election date prescribed by section 16204.
2.A postelection report that is due as prescribed
by subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section shall be filed for each
consolidated election date prescribed by section 16204.
3.An annual report that is due by January 31 in the
year immediately following the calendar year that is the subject of the report.
END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 16-916, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-916.Filing statements of contributions and expenditures;
public inspection
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, the statements, designations and reports required to be filed pursuant
to this article shall be filed as follows:
1.In the office of the secretary of state for
political committees supporting or opposing the recall of a public officer
elected statewide or to the legislature, supporting the circulation of
petitions for ballot measures, questions and propositions appearing on a state
general election ballot or recall of public officials elected statewide or to
the legislature or supporting or opposing candidates for state offices and
members of the legislature, for justices of the supreme court, for judges of
the court of appeals and for a statewide initiative or referendum or any
measure or proposition appearing on a state general election ballot. The
office of the secretary of state shall post to its website in a format that is
viewable by the public the campaign finance information prescribed by this
section.
2.With the county officer in charge of elections
for political committees supporting or opposing the recall of public officers
elected to county offices, school district governing boards, community college
district governing boards or judges of the superior court, supporting the
circulation of petitions for ballot measures, questions and propositions
appearing on a county election ballot or for the recall of a public officer
elected to county offices, school district governing boards, community college
district governing boards or judges of the superior court or supporting or
opposing candidates for county offices, school district governing board members
or ballot questions, community college district governing board members or
ballot questions, judges of the superior
court seeking retention, special taxing districts and a county
initiative or referendum or any measure or proposition appearing on a county
election ballot. For any county with a population of more than one hundred
thousand persons that operates a website, the county officer in charge of
elections shall post to that website in a format that is viewable by the public
the campaign finance information prescribed by this section, which shall
include the names of candidates who have filed an exemption statement pursuant
to section 16902.01, subsection B with that filing officer.
3.With the city or town clerk for political
committees supporting or opposing the recall of public officers elected to city
or town offices, supporting the circulation of petitions for ballot measures,
questions and propositions appearing on a city or town election ballot or
recall of public officers elected for city or town offices or supporting or
opposing candidates for city or town offices and for a city or town initiative
or referendum or any measure or proposition appearing on a city or town
election ballot.For any city or town with a population of more than
two thousand five hundred persons that operates a website, the city or town
shall post to that website in a format that is viewable by the public the
campaign finance information prescribed by this section, which shall include
the names of candidates who have filed an exemption statement pursuant to
section 16902.01, subsection B.For a city or town without a
website, the information shall be posted on the website operated by an
association of cities and towns in this state.
B.Campaign finance reports required pursuant to
section 16913 for the office of member of the legislature and statewide
offices shall be filed with the secretary of state in the manner prescribed by
the secretary of state. The secretary of state may provide through the
procedures manual adopted pursuant to section 16452 for an alternative method
for providing public access to the reports prescribed by this section.
C.For all statements, designations and reports, the
date of filing is the date of actual receipt by the officer with whom the
document is required to be filed except as follows:
1.For documents filed by certified mail with a
United States mail postmark, the date of mailing constitutes the date of
filing.
2.For documents filed by commercial delivery
services that provide a standardized delivery confirmation process, the date of
delivery confirmation constitutes the date of filing.
3.For documents filed by commercial delivery
services that provide for electronic tracking of specific delivery packages,
the date of electronic confirmation of delivery constitutes the date of filing.
D.If the date for filing any statement, designation
or report required by this article is a Saturday, a Sunday or another legal
holiday, the filing deadline is the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday
or another legal holiday. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section
16-918, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-918.Campaign finance reports; notice; civil penalty;
prohibition on candidacy
A.If a political
committee fails to file a report in a timely manner as required by this
chapter, the filing officer shall send written notice of the delinquency of the
report to the political committee and the candidate, in the case of the
candidate's campaign committee, or to the designating individual, in the case
of an individual's exploratory committee. The notice shall be sent by
certified mail within fifteen days after the filing officer determines there
may be a failure to file a campaign finance report.The notice shall
provide with reasonable particularity the nature of the failure and a statement
of the penalties provided in this section.
B.A political committee, or in the case of a
candidate's campaign committee, the candidate, or in the case of an exploratory
committee, the designating individual, is liable for a late penalty of ten
dollars for each business day after failure to make or file a campaign finance
report that is required pursuant to this chapter up to a maximum of four
hundred fifty dollars. For filings for an officeholder expense account
pursuant to section 41133, the late penalty is five dollars for each day
after failure to make or file the campaign finance report, and the late penalty
shall not accrue on days during which the office of the secretary of state is
not open for business.A late penalty accrues only until the day the
late report is filed and the filing officer shall not refuse a campaign finance
report except if penalties imposed pursuant to section 16924 are unpaid
at the time of filing the report. Beginning on the thirty-first day after the
due date, the filing officer may notify the appropriate enforcement officer
under section 16924 that a violation has occurred and that late fees and
civil penalties are owed as prescribed in subsection C of this section and may
be collected in an enforcement action pursuant to section 16924.
C.A political committee, or in the case of a
candidate's campaign committee, the candidate, or in the case of an exploratory
committee, the designating individual, that has failed to file within fifteen
days after receiving a notice of delinquency pursuant to subsection A of this
section is liable for a civil penalty of twentyfive dollars for each
subsequent day that the filing is late. This penalty shall be assessed
pursuant to section 16924.
D.For the purposes of this section, there is a
failure to make and file a campaign finance report by the treasurer, the
designating individual, in the case of an exploratory committee, the candidate,
in the case of a candidate's campaign committee, and for all other political
committees, the chairman, if any of the following occurs:
1.The report is not filed in a timely manner as
prescribed by section 16913.
2.The report is not signed in accordance with
section 16913.
3.A good faith effort is not made to substantially
complete the report as prescribed by section 16915.
E.It is a defense to an enforcement action brought
pursuant to this section if good cause is shown by the treasurer, the
designating individual, in the case of an exploratory committee, or the
candidate, in the case of a candidate's campaign committee, for the failure to
make and file a campaign finance report. For the purposes of this subsection,
"good cause" includes an illness or absence from this state at the
time the campaign finance report was due or the written notice of delinquency
was delivered if the illness or absence reasonably prevented the treasurer,
designating individual or candidate from filing the report or receiving the
written notice.
F.In addition to the enforcement actions prescribed
by this section, a person who was a candidate for nomination or election to any
local or state office and who after written notice pursuant to this section
failed to make and file a campaign finance report as required by this chapter
is not eligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to any local or
state office for five years after the last failure to make and file a campaign
finance report occurred. This penalty shall be imposed as follows:
1.A candidate's failure to make and file a campaign
finance report with a filing officer for a jurisdiction is grounds for that
filing officer to refuse the candidate's nomination paper for any public office
in that jurisdiction as described in this subsection.
2.A candidate's failure to make and file a campaign
finance report with any filing officer is grounds for a filing officer from
another jurisdiction to refuse the candidate's nomination paper for any public
office on presentation of a certified copy of a final order issued pursuant to
section 16924.
G.For a standing political committee, in addition
to any late penalty and civil penalty assessed pursuant to this section, if the
standing political committee makes a late filing three or more times, the
standing political committee is no longer eligible for consolidated filing
status pursuant to section 16913, subsection K
J and shall make all of its filings in each reporting
jurisdiction in which it is active.
H.For any political committee that has failed to
file three consecutive campaign finance reports with the filing officer as
prescribed by section 16913, the filing officer shall send the committee
chairman and treasurer a written notice of intent to suspend the political
committee. The notice of intent to suspend shall state that failure of the
political committee to fully comply with all filing requirements for that
committee, including any required payments, within thirty days of the date of
the notice shall result in suspension of the political committee's authority to
operate in that jurisdiction.On suspension of the political
committee's authority to operate, the filing officer is no longer required to
provide any further notice of delinquency to the political committee. This
subsection does not reduce or eliminate the political committee's continuing
obligation to make campaign finance filings and pay any fines, penalties, civil
penalties or other sanctions that may continue to accrue as otherwise provided
by law. This subsection does not apply to reports required pursuant to article
2 of this chapter or to a candidate's campaign committee designated by that
candidate pursuant to section 16903 during that election cycle. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 19-123, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE19-123.Publicity pamphlet; printing; distribution; public
hearings
A.When the secretary of state is ordered by the
legislature, or by petition under the initiative and referendum provisions of
the constitution, to submit to the people a measure or proposed amendment to
the constitution, the secretary of state shall cause to be printed, at the
expense of the state, except as otherwise provided in this article, a publicity
pamphlet, which shall contain:
1.A true copy of the title and text of the measure
or proposed amendment.Such text shall indicate material deleted, if
any, by printing such material with a line drawn through the center of the
letters of such material and shall indicate material added or new material by
printing the letters of such material in capital letters.
2.The form in which the measure or proposed
amendment will appear on the ballot, the official title, the descriptive title
prepared by the secretary of state and the number by which it will be
designated.
3.The arguments for and against the measure or
amendment.
4.For any measure or proposed amendment, a
legislative council analysis of the ballot proposal as prescribed by section 19124.
5.The report of the commission on judicial
performance review for any justices of the supreme court, judges of the court
of appeals and judges of the superior court who are subject to retention standing for election.
6.The summary of a fiscal impact statement prepared
by the joint legislative budget committee staff pursuant to subsection D of
this section.
B.The secretary of state shall mail one copy of the
publicity pamphlet to every household that contains a registered
voter.The mailings may be made over a period of days but shall be
mailed in order to be delivered to households before the earliest date for
receipt by registered voters of any requested early ballots for the general
election.
C.Sample ballots for both the primary and general
elections shall include a statement that information on how to obtain a
publicity pamphlet for the general election ballot propositions is available by
calling the secretary of state.The statement shall include a
telephone number and mailing address of the secretary of state.
D.On certification of an initiative measure as
qualified for the ballot, the secretary of state shall hold or cause to be held
at least three public meetings on the ballot measure.Hearings shall
be held in at least three different counties and shall be held before the date
of the election on the measure.The hearings shall provide an
opportunity for proponents, opponents and the general public to provide testimony
and request information.Hearings may be scheduled to include more
than one qualified ballot measure and shall include a fiscal impact
presentation on the measure by the joint legislative budget committee
staff.The joint legislative budget committee staff shall prepare a
summary of the fiscal impact for each ballot measure, not to exceed three
hundred words, for publication in the publicity pamphlet.END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 19-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE19-201.Officers subject to recall; number of petitioners
A.Every public officer holding an elective office,
either by election, or appointment or retention, is subject to recall from such
office by the qualified electors of the electoral district from which
candidates are elected to that office.Such electoral district may
include the whole state. A number of qualified electors equaling twentyfive
per cent percent of the number of votes cast at the
last preceding general election for all the candidates for the office held by
the officer, even if the officer was not elected at that election, divided by
the number of offices that were being filled at that election, by recall
petition, may demand the officer's recall.
B.In the case of a public officer holding office in
a newly created division or district of an elective office, either by election
or appointment, a number of qualified electors equaling twentyfive per cent percent of the number of votes cast at the
last preceding general election for all those who were candidates for other
divisions or districts of the same office held by the officer in that county or
city divided by the number of offices that were being filled at that election,
by recall petition, may demand the officer's recall. 
C.If the elective officer to be recalled was
appointed to the office or was deemed elected after an election was canceled
due to the absence of opposing candidates as provided in section 15424,
15-1442, 16-822, 48802, 481012, 481208, 481404, 481908,
482010, 482107 or 482208, the recall petition must be
signed by the number of qualified electors that is equal to at least ten per cent percent of the number of active registered
voters in the jurisdiction or district represented by that elective officer as
determined on the date of the last general election. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 38-431.08, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-431.08.Exceptions; limitation
A.This article does not apply to:
1.Any judicial proceeding of any court or any
political caucus of the legislature.
2.Any conference committee of the legislature,
except that all such meetings shall be open to the public.
3.The commissions
on appellate and trial court appointments and the commission on
judicial qualifications.
4.Good cause exception and central registry
exception determinations and hearings conducted by the board of fingerprinting
pursuant to sections 41619.55 and 41619.57.
B.A hearing held within a prison facility by the
board of executive clemency is subject to this article, except that the
director of the state department of corrections may:
1.Prohibit, on written findings that are made
public within five days of so finding, any person from attending a hearing
whose attendance would constitute a serious threat to the life or physical
safety of any person or to the safe, secure and orderly operation of the
prison.
2.Require a person who attends a hearing to sign an
attendance log. If the person is over sixteen years of age, the person shall
produce photographic identification that verifies the person's signature.
3.Prevent and prohibit any articles from being
taken into a hearing except recording devices and, if the person who attends a
hearing is a member of the media, cameras.
4.Require that a person who attends a hearing
submit to a reasonable search on entering the facility.
C.The exclusive remedies available to any person
who is denied attendance at or removed from a hearing by the director of the
state department of corrections in violation of this section shall be those
remedies available in section 38431.07, as against the director only.
D.Either house of the legislature may adopt a rule
or procedure pursuant to article IV, part 2, section 8, Constitution of
Arizona, to provide an exemption to the notice and agenda requirements of this
article or to allow standing or conference committees to meet through
technological devices rather than only in person. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 41-1232.04, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1232.04.Registration; exceptions
Sections 411232, 411232.01, 411232.02 and
411232.03 do not apply to a person if that person is acting in the
following capacity:
1.A natural person who merely appears for himself
before a committee of the legislature or before a state officer or employee or
a state agency, board, commission or council to lobby in support of or in
opposition to legislation or official action.
2.A natural person who, acting in his own behalf,
sends a letter to, converses on the telephone with or has a personal
conversation with a state officer or employee for the purpose of supporting or
opposing any legislation or official action.
3.A duly elected or retained public official, judge or justice,
a person duly appointed to an elective public office, or an appointed member of
a state, county or local board, advisory committee, commission or council
acting in his official capacity on matters pertaining to his office, board,
advisory committee, commission or council.
4.A person who answers technical questions or
provides technical information at the request of a lobbyist, designated public
lobbyist, authorized public lobbyist or legislator and who makes no
expenditures required to be reported by this article.
5.A person who performs professional services in
drafting bills or in advising and rendering opinions to clients as to the
construction and effect of proposed or pending legislation.
6.An attorney who represents clients before any
court or before any quasijudicial body.
7.A person who contacts a state officer or state
employee solely for the purpose of acquiring information.
8.A natural person who is a member of an
association, who is not the lobbyist for compensation, designated lobbyist or
authorized lobbyist for the association and who does not make any expenditures
that would otherwise be required to be reported by this article if the natural
person were a lobbyist, a designated public lobbyist or an authorized public lobbyist.
END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective unless the Constitution of
Arizona is amended by vote of the people at the next general election to repeal
the merit selection of justices and judges and to provide for the election of
justices and judges.

