



PREFILED DEC 30 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: delivery; early ballots; limitation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2023









Introduced by
Representative
  Ugenti-Rita





AN ACT

amending section
161005, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to ballot abuse.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-1005, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-1005.Ballot abuse; violation; classification
A.Any person who knowingly marks a voted or unvoted
ballot or ballot envelope with the intent to fix an election for his
that person's own benefit or for that of another person is guilty
of a class 5 felony.
B.It is unlawful to offer or provide any
consideration to acquire a voted or unvoted early ballot.A person
who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
C.It is unlawful to receive or agree to receive any
consideration in exchange for a voted or unvoted ballot.A person
who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
D.It is unlawful to possess a voted or unvoted
ballot with the intent to sell the voted or unvoted ballot of another person.
A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a class 5 felony.
E.A person or entity that knowingly solicits the
collection of voted or unvoted ballots by misrepresenting itself as an election
official or as an official ballot repository or is found to be serving as a
ballot drop off site, other than those established and staffed by election
officials, is guilty of a class 5 felony.
F.A person who knowingly collects voted or unvoted
ballots and who does not
turn those ballots in to an election official, the United States postal service
or any other entity permitted by law to transmit post is guilty of a class 5
felony.
G.A person who engages or participates in a pattern
of ballot fraud is guilty of a class 4 felony. For the purposes of this
subsection, "pattern of ballot fraud" means the person has offered or
provided any consideration to three or more persons to acquire the voted or
unvoted ballot of a person.
H.A person
who knowingly collects voted or unvoted early ballots from another person is
guilty of a class 6 felony. An election official, a United States postal
service worker or any other person who is allowed by law to transmit United
States mail is deemed not to have collected an early ballot if the official,
worker or other person is engaged in official duties. This subsection does not
preclude a special taxing district from adopting and using an acreage system of
voting as prescribed in title 48 or apply to a family member, household member
or caregiver of the voter. For the purposes of this subsection:
1."Caregiver"
means a person who provides medical or health care assistance to the voter in a
residence, nursing care institution, hospice facility, assisted living center,
assisted living facility, assisted living home, residential care institution,
adult day health care facility or adult foster care home.
2."Collects" means to gain possession
or control of an early ballot.
3."Family member" means a person who
is related to the voter by blood, marriage, adoption or legal guardianship.
4."Household
member" means a person who resides at the same residence as the voter.
END_STATUTE

