



PREFILED DEC 15 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: veteran-owned businesses; procurement
  preference







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2009









Introduced by
Representative
  Cardenas





AN ACT

amending title
41, chapter 23, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-2545;
relating to the Arizona procurement code.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
41, chapter 23, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 41-2545, to read:
START_STATUTE41-2545.State contracts; veteran-owned businesses; participation
goal; registry; definitions
A.Notwithstanding any other law, the director of the
department of administration shall establish a veteranowned business
participation goal of awarding, pursuant to existing procurement rules, to
qualified, operated and controlled veteranowned businesses state
contracts involving the procurement of materials, services or construction or
the disposal of materials.The participation goal is at least one
and onehalf percent for
the year beginning on january 1, 2017 and increases to three percent or
more for every year thereafter. The goal applies to the overall dollar amount
spent each year by this state pursuant to this article.
B.The director of the department of veterans' services
shall:
1.Establish a registry of veteranowned businesses
to verify the veteran status and eligibility of businesses seeking to be
included in the registry.
2.Use any resources, including the United States
department of veterans affairs vetbiz registry, or its successor registry, or
the United States department of defense form dd-214, or its successor form, to
determine business eligibility.
C.The director of the department of administration shall
establish procedures for meeting the participation goal using the registry of
veteranowned businesses established under subsection B of this section.
The director of the department of administration, by rule, may allow a
procurement officer to reserve certain procurements for registered veteranowned
businesses.
D.In performing a contract for services under this
section, a veteranowned business shall use at least fifty percent of the
proceeds of the contract to pay for the salaries of employees of the veteranowned
business.This subsection does not apply to construction contracts.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Veteran" means a person who is a veteran of
the armed forces of the United States, who is separated from the armed forces
under honorable conditions following more than six months of active duty and
who meets the requirements of section 38492, subsection E.
2."Veteranowned business" means a
business to which all of the following apply:
(a)The
business is an individual proprietorship, partnership, corporation or joint
venture that is at least fifty-one percent owned by one or more veterans who
receive combat-related special compensation pursuant to 10 United States Code
section 1413a or, for
a business whose stock is publicly held, at least fifty-one percent of the
stock is owned by one or more veterans who receive combat-related special
compensation pursuant to 10United States Code section 1413a.
(b)The
management and daily operations of the business are controlled by one or more
veterans who own the business.
(c)The
home office of the business is located in this state and is not a branch or
subsidiary of a foreign corporation or firm or other foreign business. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
This act is effective from and
after December 31, 2016.

