



PREFILED DEC 30 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: signs; early voting; removal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2017









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending section
16-1019, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to political signs.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-1019, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-1019.Political signs; printed materials; tampering; violation;
classification; definition
A.It is a class 2 misdemeanor for any person to
knowingly remove, alter, deface or cover any political sign of any candidate for public office or knowingly
remove, alter or deface any political mailers, handouts, flyers or other
printed materials of a candidate
that are delivered by hand to a residence for the period commencing fortyfive eighty-six days before a the
primary election date
prescribed by section 16-201 and ending seven days after the
general election date prescribed by
section 16-211.
B.This section does not apply to the removal,
alteration, defacing or covering of a political sign or other printed materials
by the candidate or the authorized agent of the candidate in support of whose
election the sign or materials were placed, by the owner or authorized agent of
the owner of private property on which such signs or printed materials are
placed with or without permission of the owner or placed in violation of state
law or county, city or town ordinance or regulation.
C.Notwithstanding any other statute, ordinance or
regulation, a city, town or county of this state shall not remove, alter,
deface or cover any political sign if the following conditions are met:
1.The sign is placed in a public right-of-way that
is owned or controlled by that jurisdiction.
2.The sign supports or opposes a candidate for
public office or it supports or opposes a ballot measure.
3.The sign is not placed in a location that is
hazardous to public safety, obstructs clear vision in the area or interferes
with the requirements of the Americans with disabilities act (42 United States
Code sections 12101 through 12213 and 47 United States Code sections 225 and
611).
4.The sign has a maximum area of sixteen square
feet, if the sign is located in an area zoned for residential use, or a maximum
area of thirty-two square feet if the sign is located in any other area.
5.The sign contains the name and telephone number
or website address of the candidate or campaign committee contact person.
D.If the city, town or county deems that the
placement of a political sign constitutes an emergency, the jurisdiction may
immediately relocate the sign. The jurisdiction shall notify the candidate or
campaign committee that placed the sign within twenty-four hours after the
relocation. If a sign is placed in violation of subsection C of this section and the placement is not
deemed to constitute an emergency, the city, town or county may notify the
candidate or campaign committee that placed the sign of the
violation.If the sign remains in violation at least twenty-four
hours after the jurisdiction notified the candidate or campaign committee, the
jurisdiction may remove the sign.The jurisdiction shall contact the
candidate or campaign committee contact and shall retain the sign for at least
ten business days to allow the candidate or campaign committee to retrieve the
sign without penalty.
E.A city, town or county employee acting within the
scope of the employee's employment is not liable for an injury caused by the
failure to remove a sign pursuant to subsection D of this section unless the employee intended
to cause injury or was grossly negligent.
F.Subsection C of this section does not apply to commercial
tourism, commercial resort and hotel sign free zones as those zones are
designated by municipalities. The total area of those zones shall not be
larger than three square miles, and each zone shall be identified as a specific
contiguous area where, by resolution of the municipal governing body, the
municipality has determined that based on a predominance of commercial tourism,
resort and hotel uses within the zone the placement of political signs within
the rights-of-way in the zone will detract from the scenic and aesthetic appeal
of the area within the zone and deter its appeal to tourists. Not more than
two zones may be identified within a municipality.
G.A city, town or county may prohibit the
installation of a sign on any structure owned by the jurisdiction.
H.Subsection C of this section applies only during the period
commencing sixty eighty-six days before a the primary election date prescribed by section 16-201 and ending
fifteen days after the general election
date prescribed by section 16-211, except that for a sign for a
candidate in a primary election who does not advance to the general election,
the period ends fifteen days after the primary election date prescribed by section 16-201.
I.This section does not apply to state highways or
routes, or overpasses over those state highways or routes.
J.For the
purposes of this section, "political sign" means a sign that is
intended to influence the outcome of an election. END_STATUTE

