



PREFILED DEC 22 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: transfer pupils; transcripts







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2012









Introduced by
Representative
  Cardenas





AN ACT

amending section
15821, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school admission
requirements.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-821, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-821.Admission of children; required age; transcripts
A.Unless otherwise provided by article 1.1 of this
chapter or by any other law, all schools shall admit children who are between
the ages of six and twentyone years, who reside in the school district
and who meet the requirements for enrollment in one of the grades or programs
offered in the school. A school may refuse to admit a child who has graduated
from a high school with a recognized diploma.
B.If a preschool program for children with
disabilities is maintained, a child is eligible for admission as prescribed in
section 15771.
C.If a kindergarten program is maintained, a child
is eligible for admission to kindergarten if the child is five years of
age.A child is deemed five years of age if the child reaches the
age of five before September 1 of the current school year.A child
is eligible for admission to first grade if the child is six years of
age.A child is deemed six years of age if the child reaches the age
of six before September 1 of the current school year. The governing board may
admit children who have not reached the required age as prescribed by this
subsection if it is determined to be in the best interest of the children. For
children entering the first grade, such determination shall be based upon on one or more consultations with the parent,
parents, guardian or guardians, the children, the teacher and the school
principal.Such children must reach the required age of five for
kindergarten and six for first grade by January 1 of the current school year.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, a child who
resides with a family member other than the child's parent while awaiting the
outcome of a legal guardianship or custody proceeding is deemed to reside in
the school district where that family member resides if the family member
provides written documentary proof of one of the following:
1.The family member is attempting to obtain legal
guardianship of the child in an unresolved and uncontested guardianship
proceeding commenced in superior court.The family member shall
provide documentation to the school district within thirty days of enrollment
that the family member is attempting to obtain legal guardianship of the child.
On obtaining legal guardianship, the family member shall provide documentation
to the school district.
2.The family member is attempting to obtain custody
of the child in an unresolved and uncontested child custody proceeding
commenced in superior court.The family member shall provide
documentation to the school district within thirty days of enrollment that the
family member is attempting to obtain custody of the child. On
obtaining custody, the family member shall provide documentation to the school
district.
E.If a
pupil previously attended another school, A school may request that pupil's
transcript from the previous school after obtaining consent from the pupil's
parent. END_STATUTE

