







REFERENCE TITLE: Arizona silver-haired legislature







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2178









Introduced by
Representatives
  Gabaldn, Bolding, Cardenas, Fernandez, Larkin, Saldate, Senator Dalessandro:
  Representatives Andrade, Espinoza, Friese, Hale, McCune Davis, Plumlee,
  Velasquez





AN ACT

amending Title
41, chapter 7, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 13; appropriating
monies; relating to senior citizens.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 7, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 13, to read:
ARTICLE 13.ARIZONA SILVERHAIRED
LEGISLATURE
START_STATUTE41-1292.Arizona silverhaired legislature; panel termination
A.The
Arizona silverhaired legislature is established. The ARizona silverhaired
legislature is a nonpartisan panel consisting of citizens of this state who are
at least sixty years of age and who are elected by their peers in this state.
B.The
Arizona silverhaired legislature shall:
1.Identify
various social, economic and political issues and concerns affecting the lives
of all citizens of this state.
2.Provide
seniors with a valuable forum to discuss policy alternatives and possible
solutions for identified issues and concerns while acknowledging the
limitations imposed by budget constraints, possible tax implications and fiscal
impacts.
3.Annually
submit its recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate and the
speaker of the house of representatives.
4.Demonstrate
the benefits of direct participation in the legislative process while fostering
a better understanding and awareness of legislative procedure among individuals
of all ages.
5.Promote
effective government for all citizens of this state.
C.The
president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives may
present issues to the Arizona silverhaired legislature for its
deliberatioN.
D.The
Arizona silverhaired legislature shall actively seek private funding and
corporate sponsorship.
E.The panel
established by this section ends on July 1, 2024 pursuant to section 41-3103. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Appropriation; Arizona silverhaired legislature;
exemption
A.The sum of $60,000 is appropriated from the state
general fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the Arizona silverhaired
legislature for the purposes provided in this act.
B.The appropriation made in subsection A of this
section is exempt from the provisions of section 35-190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations.

