







REFERENCE TITLE: independent business status; declaration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2114









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Cobb: Allen J, Fann, Finchem, Norgaard, Olson, Shope, Senator Lesko





AN ACT

Amending title
23, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 10; relating to employment
relationships.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 10, to read:
CHAPTER 10
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPS
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE23-1601.Declaration of independent business status
A.Any employing unit contracting with an
independent contractor may prove the existence of an independent contractor
relationship for the purposes of this title by the independent contractor
executing a declaration of independent business status, as provided by this
section, and by the employing unit and the independent contractor acting in a
manner consistent with the declaration. To the extent allowed by federal law,
a declaration of independent business status executed in compliance with this
subsection creates a rebuttable presumption of an independent contractor
relationship between the independent contractor and the employing unit with
whom the independent contractor contracts. Any declaration of independent
business status shall be signed by the independent contractor, be dated and,
unless otherwise provided by law, substantially comply with the following form:
This declaration of
independent business status is made by (contractor)
in relation to services performed by the contractor for (contracting
party). The contractor states and declares the following:
1.The
contractor operates the contractor's own independent business and is providing
services for the contracting party as an independent contractor.
2.The
contractor understands that the contractor is not an employee of the
contracting party and the services rendered for the contracting party do not
establish any right to unemployment benefits or any other right arising from an
employment relationship.
3.The
contractor understands that the contractor is not insured under any of
contracting party's insurance coverage, including workers' compensation
insurance.
4.The
contractor understands that the contractor is responsible for any and all tax
liability associated with payments received from the contracting party and that
the contracting party will not withhold any taxes from payments to the
contractor.
5.The
contractor understands that the contracting party does not restrict the
contractor's ability to perform services for other parties.The
contractor is authorized to accept work from and perform work for other
businesses and individuals besides the contracting party.
6.The
contractor acknowledges that the contracting party expects that the contractor
provides services for other parties and is therefore not economically dependent
on the services performed for the contracting party.
7.The
contractor has the right to accept or decline requests for services by the
contracting party.
8.The
contractor has the right to subcontract the services provided to the
contracting party to qualified employees or subcontractors of the contractor.
9.The
contractor recognizes that the contracting party does not dictate the time of
performance or the methods or process the contractor uses to perform services
for the contracting party. The contracting party has the right to impose
quality standards or a deadline for completion of services performed, or both,
but the contractor is authorized to determine the days worked, the time of work
and other aspects of performance.
10.The
contractor recognizes that the contractor is responsible for obtaining and
maintaining any required registration, licenses or other authorization
necessary for the services rendered by the contractor.
11.The
contractor understands that the contractor will be paid by the contracting
party based on the work the contractor is contracted to perform and that the
contracting party is not guaranteeing or otherwise providing the contractor
with a regular salary or any minimum, regular payment.
12.The
contractor understands that the contractor is responsible for providing and
maintaining all tools and equipment associated with the services performed for
the contracting party.
13.The
contractor understands that the contractor is responsible for all expenses
incurred by the contractor in performing the services for the contracting
party.
14.The
contractor acknowledges that the terms set forth in this declaration apply to
the contractor, the contractor's employees and the contractor's independent
contractors.
B.This
section does not require an independent contractor to execute a declaration of
independent business status to be considered an independent
contractor.Any employing unit or independent contractor may rely on
any provision in this title for the purposes of establishing an employment or
independent contractor relationship. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1602.Determination of employment relationship; prohibition
Any supervision or
control exercised by an employing unit to comply with any statute, rule or code
adopted by this state or a political subdivision of this state or any
professional licensing requirement may not be considered for the purposes of
determining the independent contractor or employment status of any relationship
or individual for the purposes of this title. END_STATUTE

