







REFERENCE TITLE: peace officer memorial board; members







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2165









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Carter: Campbell, Cobb, Fann, Finchem, Pratt, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
411829, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the arizona peace officers
memorial board.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1829, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1829.Arizona peace officers memorial board; board termination
A.An Arizona peace officers memorial board is
established consisting of the following
members: 
1.The
attorney general or the attorney
general's designee, who shall serve as permanent chairman. , 
2.The
director of the department of public safety or the director's designee. , 
3.The
director of the state department of corrections or the director's designee. , 
4.The
executive director of the Arizona criminal justice commission or the executive director's designee. , 
5.Eleven
members appointed pursuant to subsection B of this section. and 
6.As
advisory members, the chairmen
of the appropriations and judiciary committees of the house of representatives
and the senate.For the purposes of this subsection paragraph, "advisory member" means a
member who gives advice to the other members of the peace officers memorial
board at meetings of the board but who is not eligible to vote and is not a
member for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present.
B.The permanent chairman shall appoint one private
citizen who is knowledgeable in the history of law enforcement in this state,
one county sheriff or the county
sheriff's designee, one local police chief or the police chief's designee, two members
selected from a recognized fraternal organization for law enforcement
personnel, two representatives from the business community, two family members
of peace officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty and two members
from a statewide organization representing law enforcement personnel.
C.The board shall meet at the call of the permanent
chairman.
D.Members of the board are not eligible to receive
compensation, but members appointed pursuant to subsection B of this section are entitled to reimbursement
from the Arizona peace officers memorial fund for reasonable expenses in
traveling on and attending to official board business.
E.The board established by this section ends on
July 1, 2019 pursuant to section 413103. END_STATUTE

