







REFERENCE TITLE: technical event production services;
  exemption







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2112









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen: Allen J, Cobb, Fann, Finchem, Norgaard, Rivero, Shope, Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending section
23613.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to employment status.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-613.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-613.01.Employee definition; exempt employment
A."Employee" means any individual who
performs services for an employing unit and who is subject to the direction,
rule or control of the employing unit as to both the method of performing or
executing the services and the result to be effected or accomplished.
Indications of control by the employing unit include controlling the
individual's hours of work, location of work, right to perform services for
others, tools, equipment, materials, expenses and use of other workers and
other indicia of employment, except employee does not include:
1.An individual who performs services as an
independent contractor, business person, agent or consultant, or in a capacity
characteristic of an independent profession, trade, skill or occupation.
2.An individual subject to the direction, rule or
control or subject to the right of direction, rule or control of an employing
unit solely because of a provision of law regulating the organization, trade or
business of the employing unit.
3.An individual or class of individuals that the
federal government has decided not to and does not treat as an employee or employees
for federal unemployment tax purposes.
4.An individual if the employing unit demonstrates
the individual performs services in the same manner as a similarly situated
class of individuals that the federal government has decided not to and does
not treat as an employee or employees for federal unemployment tax purposes.
5.An individual to whom all of the following apply:
(a)Performs officiating services in recreational,
interscholastic or intercollegiate sporting events or contests on a contestbycontest
basis.
(b)Has the ability to accept or reject assignments
to officiate a sporting event or contest.
(c)Has the right to officiate contests for multiple
organizations or entities.
(d)Is not otherwise employed by the sponsoring
school, association of schools or the organization, this state, or a political
subdivision of this state sponsoring the sporting event or contest.
6.An
individual to whom all of the following apply:
(a)Performs technical event
production services as defined in subsection D of this section.
(b)Has the ability to accept or
reject assignments to perform technical event production services.
(c)Has the right to perform
technical event production services for or through multiple organizations or
entities.
(d)Is not otherwise employed by the
organization or entity that is coordinating, organizing or sponsoring the event
at which the technical event production services are preformed.
(e)Is not otherwise employed by an
organization or entity that is contracted to provide technical event production
services to the organization or entity that is coordinating, organizing or
sponsoring the conference, convention, trade show or corporate, business,
professional, charitable or nonprofit organization event or similar event.
B.For the purposes of subsection A, paragraph 5 of
this section, "officiating services" means overseeing the play of a
sporting event or contest, judging whether the rules are being followed and
penalizing participants for infringing the rules.
C.Subsection
A, paragraph 6 of this section applies to any qualifying individual regardless
of whether the individual is performing technical event production services
through a direct contract with the organization or entity that is coordinating,
organizing or sponsoring the conference, convention, trade show or corporate,
business, professional, charitable or nonprofit organization event or similar
event or through a contract with a thirdparty organization or entity
that is contracted to provide the technical event production services. The
qualifying individual is not an employee of the organization or entity that is
coordinating, organizing or sponsoring the conference, convention, trade show
or corporate, business, professional, charitable or nonprofit organization
event or similar event and is not an employee of the thirdparty
organization or entity that is contracted to provide the technical event
production services.
D.For the
purposes of subsection A, paragraph 6 and subsection C of this section,
"technical event production services" means all services to plan,
coordinate or perform the setup, operation and breakdown of a conference,
convention, trade show or corporate, business, professional, charitable or
nonprofit organization event or similar event, including the planning,
coordinating, setting up, operating and breaking down of stages, tables,
seating, displays, signs, audio equipment and visual equipment.
C.E.Notwithstanding
this section, an individual or class of individuals shall not be treated as an
employee by the department for purposes of this chapter if, before the
department's determination that the individual or class of individuals at issue
is an employee:
1.The individual or class of individuals had been
performing services for the employing unit.
2.The department had inspected work records of the
employing unit for time periods that the individual or class of individuals had
been performing these services.
3.The individual or class of individuals at issue
was not included on the contribution and wage reports of the employing unit.
4.After its
inspection the department concluded in writing provided to the employing unit
that either:
(a)No change or
changes in the inspected reports were necessary.
(b)The individual or class of individuals in
question did not constitute an employee for purposes of this chapter.
5.At no time between the date of the written
determination prescribed in paragraph 4 of this subsection, and the
department's subsequent conclusion that the individual or class of individuals
at issue constitutes an employee, did the department notify the employing unit
in writing that the individual or class of individuals at issue now constitutes
an employee for purposes of this chapter.
D.F.Subsection
C E of this section does not apply if either:
1.There has been a substantial and material change
in the facts upon on which the writing required
by subsection C E, paragraph 4 of this section
was based.
2.The conclusion reached by the department pursuant
to subsection C E, paragraph 4 of this section
was the result of false statements, misrepresentation, fraud or intimidation on
the part of the employing unit.
E.G.The
following services are exempt employment under this chapter, unless there is
evidence of direction, rule or control sufficient to satisfy the definition of
an employee under subsection A of this section, which is distinct from any
evidence of direction, rule or control related to or associated with
establishing the nature or circumstances of the services considered pursuant to
this subsection:
1.Services which
that are not a part or
process of the organization, trade or business of an employing unit and which that are performed by an individual who is not
treated by the employing unit in a manner generally characteristic of the
treatment of employees.
2.Services performed by an individual for an
employing unit through isolated or occasional transactions, regardless of
whether such services are a part or process of the organization, trade or business
of the employing unit.
F.H.Notwithstanding
this section, an individual or class of individuals determined to be an
employee or employees for purposes of the federal unemployment tax act, as
amended (26 United States Code sections 3301 through 3311), are employees under
this chapter.
G.I.Notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter, this section applies to an employing unit
to which the provisions of section 23750 apply only to the extent not
inconsistent with the requirements of 26 United States Code sections 3304
(a)(6) and 3309. END_STATUTE

