







REFERENCE TITLE: domestic surplus lines insurance; fees







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2149









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

Amending section
20401, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 20, chapter 2, article
5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 20407.01; amending
sections 20410, 20465 and 20661, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to surplus lines insurance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-401.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Affiliated" means, with respect to an
insured, any entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control
with the insured. For the purposes of this paragraph, "control"
means either:
(a)Directly or indirectly acting through one or
more other persons who own, control or have the power to vote twentyfive
per cent percent or more of any class of voting
securities of the other entity.
(b)Control in any manner over the election of a
majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity.
2."Affiliated group" means any group of
entities that are affiliated.
3."Clearinghouse" means the mechanism or
entity established pursuant to a multistate agreement or compact for the
receipt and distribution of premium taxes and transaction data related to the
sale of unauthorized insurance.
4."Diligent effort" means having sought
insurance for the same risk from at least three insurers authorized in this
state to write the particular insurance coverage or type, class or kind of insurance.
5."Domestic
surplus lines insurer" means an insurer that is domiciled in and
authorized to transact insurance in this state and that has received approval
from the department pursuant to section 20407.01 to issue surplus lines
insurance coverage in this state.
5.6."Foreign
decree" means any decree or order in equity of a court located in a
reciprocal state, including a court of the United States located therein,
obtained by a qualified party against any insurer incorporated or authorized to
do business in this state.
6.7."Home
state" means one of the following:
(a)The state in which an insured maintains its
principal place of business or, in the case of an individual, the individual's
principal place of residence.
(b)If one hundred per cent percent of the insured risk is located out of the state
that would be the insured's home state pursuant to subdivision (a) of this
paragraph, the state to which the greatest percentage of the insured's taxable
premium is allocated for the insurance contract in question.
(c)If more than one insured from an affiliated
group are named insureds on a single nonadmitted insurance contract, the state
as determined pursuant to subdivision (a) of this paragraph of the member of
the affiliated group that has the largest percentage of premium attributed to
it under the insurance contract.
7.8."Multistate
risk" means a risk covered by an unauthorized insurer with insured
exposures in more than one state.
8.9."Qualified
party" means a state regulatory agency acting in its capacity to enforce
the insurance laws of such that state.
9.10."Reciprocal
state" means any state or territory of the United States the laws of which
give to insurers organized under the laws of this state the same right to
defend actions as that granted to foreign insurers under the laws of this state
and the laws of which contain procedures substantially similar to those
specified in this article for the enforcement of decrees or orders in equity
issued by courts located in other states or territory of the United States
against any insurer incorporated or authorized to do business in such that
state or territory.
10.11."Singlestate
risk" means a risk with insured exposures in only one state.
11.12."Unauthorized
insurance" or "nonadmitted insurance" means any insurance
permitted to be placed directly or through a surplus lines broker with an
insurer who is not licensed to transact insurance in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 20, chapter 2, article 5, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 20-407.01, to read:
START_STATUTE20-407.01.Designation as a domestic surplus lines insurer;
requirements; scope of business activity permitted
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, a domestic insurer possessing policyholder surplus of at least
fifteen million dollars, pursuant to a resolution by its board of directors and
on the written approval of the director, may be designated as a domestic
surplus lines insurer. A domestic surplus lines insurer shall be considered a
qualified, unauthorized insurer for purposes of writing surplus lines insurance
coverage pursuant to the requirements of this article.
B.A
domestic surplus lines insurer shall only insure risks in this state procured
from a surplus lines broker pursuant to the requirements of this article.
C.Insurance
written by a domestic surplus lines insurer is subject to the tax on premiums
required by section 20416 and is exempt from the tax on premiums
required by chapter 2, article 1 of this title.
D.A
domestic surplus lines insurer shall be considered a nonadmitted insurer as
defined in 15 United States Code section 8206 with respect to surplus lines
insurance issued in this state.
E.Surplus
lines insurance policies issued by a domestic surplus lines insurer in this
state are not subject to the protection of or other provisions of the Arizona
property and casualty insurance guaranty fund established by section 20662.
F.Surplus
lines insurance policies issued in this state by a domestic surplus lines
insurer are not subject to and are exempt from all statutory requirements
relating to insurance rating and rating plans, policy forms, policy
cancellation and nonrenewal in the same manner and to the same extent as a
nonadmitted insurer domiciled in another state. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
20-410, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-410.Validity of surplus lines insurance; disclosure; policy
fees
A.Insurance contracts procured as surplus lines
coverage are fully valid and enforceable as to all parties and shall be
recognized in all matters in the same manner as like contracts issued by
authorized insurers.
B.Any policy and any evidence of surplus lines
coverage from that is issued by an
unauthorized insurer pursuant to this article and that is issued for delivery
to the insured shall contain a conspicuously stamped or written notice in boldfaced
type that states one of the following:
1.If the
surplus lines policy or evidence of coverage is issued by a nondomestic surplus
lines insurer:
Pursuant to Arizona
Revised Statutes section 20401.01, subsection B, paragraph
1, Arizona Revised Statutes, this
policy is issued by an insurer that does not possess a certificate of authority
from the director of the Arizona Department of Insurance.If the
insurer that issued this policy becomes insolvent, insureds or claimants will
not be eligible for insurance guaranty fund protection pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes title
20, Arizona Revised Statutes.
2.If the
surplus lines policy or evidence of coverage is issued by a domestic surplus
lines insurer:
If the insurer that
issued this policy becomes insolvent, insureds or claimants will not be
eligible for insurance guaranty fund protection pursuant to title 20, Arizona
Revised Statutes.
C.A surplus lines broker may charge and receive a
fee in addition to the premium for services provided in the transaction of
surplus lines insurance if before effecting any coverage both of the following
conditions are met:
1.The service fees and the specific services for
which the fees are charged are disclosed to the insured or the insured's
representative and are agreed to in writing by the insured or the insured's
representative.
2.The taxes prescribed in section 20416 are
paid on any fees charged to the insured.
D.An
insurance producer may charge a fee in connection with referring an insured or
potential insured to a surplus lines broker for the transaction of surplus
lines insurance if the requirements of subsection C of this section are met. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 20-465, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-465.Fees; deposits; exception
A.An insurer and insurance producer shall not
charge or receive any fee or service charge in addition to the premium charged
for services customarily provided in the transaction of insurance for motor
vehicle insurance policies that insure six or fewer motor vehicles.
B.An insurer and insurance producer may charge and
receive a fee for services not customarily provided in the transaction of
insurance if the fee is filed with the director and the following conditions
exist:
1.The services performed by the insurer or
insurance producer are in excess of those normally performed for insureds.
2.The service charge and the specific services for
which the charge is made are disclosed and agreed to in writing by the insured
on a form that is approved by the director.
3.The amount of the service charge is reasonably
related to the cost of the service performed.
C.After notice and a hearing, the director shall
prescribe the services that are customarily provided in the transaction of
insurance.
D.If after an examination and a hearing the
director determines that an insurer or insurance producer has violated subsection
A of this section, the director may order the insurer or insurance producer to
refund the fee or that part of the fee that the director determines was
excessive and may impose civil penalties as set forth in section 20456.The
insurer or insurance producer shall pay the costs of the examination from
monies deposited with the director pursuant to section 20159 regardless
of the findings of the examination.
E.This section does not prohibit fees, including
membership fees charged by a reciprocal or mutual insurer, if the fees are
filed with the director and are included by an insurer in supplemental rate
information.
F.This section does not apply to insurers, and insurance producers or surplus lines brokers transacting
commercial insurance or surplus lines
insurance pursuant to article 5 of this chapter. For the
purposes of this subsection, "commercial insurance" means insurance
that insures against the risks resulting from the responsibilities or
activities of one or more businesses, including motor vehicle insurance
policies insuring seven or more motor vehicles. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 20-661, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-661.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Account" means any one of the three
accounts within the Arizona property and casualty insurance guaranty fund.
2."Board" means the guaranty fund board.
3."Covered claim" means an unpaid claim,
including one for unearned premium, which arises out of and is within the
coverage of an insurance policy to which this article applies issued by an
insurer, if such insurer becomes an insolvent insurer after August 27, 1977 and
the claimant or insured is a resident of this state at the time of the insured
event or the property from which the claim arises is permanently located in
this state. Covered claim does not include any amount due any reinsurer,
insurer, insurance pool or underwriting association as subrogation recoveries
or otherwise nor shall it include any obligations of the insolvent insurer
arising out of any reinsurance contracts nor shall it include attorney fees or
adjustment expenses incurred prior to the determination of insolvency.
4."Fund" means the Arizona property and
casualty insurance guaranty fund.
5."Insolvent insurer" means an insurer
that is licensed to transact insurance in this state either at the time the
policy was issued or when the insured event occurred and against whom an order
of liquidation with a finding of insolvency has been entered after September
19, 2007 by a court of competent jurisdiction in the insurer's state of
domicile or by this state pursuant to section 20623, and the order of
liquidation has not been stayed or been the subject of a writ of supersedeas or
other comparable order. For purposes of the workers' compensation insurance
account, an "insolvent
insurer" shall also include includes any insolvent insurer
against which an order of liquidation with a finding of insolvency has been
entered on, before or after the effective date of this section.
6."Member insurer" means any person who
writes any kind of insurance, unless such writing is restricted solely to life,
title, surety, disability, credit, mortgage guaranty or oceanmarine
insurance, including the exchange of reciprocal or interinsurance
contracts, and is licensed to transact insurance in this state.
7."Net direct written premiums" means
direct gross premiums written in this state on insurance policies to which this
article applies, less return premiums and dividends paid or credited to
policyholders on such direct business.Net direct written premiums
do not include premiums on contracts between insurers or reinsurers or premiums for surplus lines insurance
coverage issued in this state by a domestic surplus lines insurer pursuant to
chapter 2, article 5 of this title. END_STATUTE

