







REFERENCE TITLE: municipalities;
  counties; auxiliary containers; prohibitions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2131









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

Repealing section
9500.36, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 9, chapter 4, article
8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 9500.38; repealing
section 11269.14, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 11, chapter
2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 11269.15;
relating to auxiliary containers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 9-500.36,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 9, chapter 4, article 8, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 9-500.38, to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.38.Prohibition on regulation of auxiliary containers; state
preemption; legislative findings; definition
A.A city or
town may not:
1.Impose a
tax, fee, assessment, charge or return deposit on a consumer or an owner,
operator or tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing
property for auxiliary containers.
2.Regulate
the sale, use or disposition of auxiliary containers by an owner, operator or
tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing property.
B.The
regulation of the sale, use and disposition of auxiliary containers is a matter
of statewide concern.The regulation of the sale, use or disposition
of auxiliary containers by an owner, operator or tenant of a business,
commercial building or multifamily housing property pursuant to this section is
not subject to further regulation by a city or town.
C.The
legislature finds that small businesses are particularly sensitive to costs and
expenses incurred in complying with regulatory actions of a city or town. The
legislature further finds that inconsistent regulation by cities and towns
hinders a small business from benefiting from free and open competition.
D.This
section does not prevent a city or town from continuing a voluntary recycling
and waste reduction program as authorized by section 9500.07 or ensuring
that discarded auxiliary containers defined as solid waste pursuant to section
49701.01 are disposed of properly.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "auxiliary container" includes reusable
bags, disposable bags, boxes, beverage cans, bottles, cups and containers that
are made out of cloth, plastic, extruded polystyrene, glass, aluminum,
cardboard or other similar materials and that are used for transporting
merchandise or food to or from a business or multifamily housing
property.Auxiliary container does not include a stationary
receptacle intended solely for use by the public for voluntary donation of
goods and materials intended for subsequent reuse, sale or recycling.
END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 11-269.14,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Title 11, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 11-269.15, to read:
START_STATUTE11-269.15.Prohibition on regulation of auxiliary containers; state
preemption; legislative findings; definition
A.A county
may not:
1.Impose a
tax, fee, assessment, charge or return deposit on a consumer or an owner,
operator or tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing
property for auxiliary containers.
2.Regulate
the sale, use or disposition of auxiliary containers by an owner, operator or
tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing property.
B.The
regulation of the sale, use and disposition of auxiliary containers is a matter
of statewide concern. The regulation of the sale, use or disposition of
auxiliary containers by an owner, operator or tenant of a business, commercial
building or multifamily housing property pursuant to this section is not
subject to further regulation by a county.
C.The
legislature finds that small businesses are particularly sensitive to costs and
expenses incurred in complying with regulatory actions of a
county.The legislature further finds that inconsistent regulation
by counties hinders a small business from benefiting from free and open
competition.
D.This
section does not prevent a county from continuing a voluntary recycling and
waste reduction program as authorized by section 11269 or ensuring that
discarded auxiliary containers defined as solid waste pursuant to section 49701.01
are disposed of properly.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "auxiliary container" includes reusable
bags, disposable bags, boxes, beverage cans, bottles, cups and containers that
are made out of cloth, plastic, extruded polystyrene, glass, aluminum,
cardboard or other similar materials and that are used for transporting
merchandise or food to or from a business or multifamily housing property.
Auxiliary container does not include a stationary receptacle intended solely
for use by the public for voluntary donation of goods and materials intended
for subsequent reuse, sale or recycling. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective unless House Bill ____,
fiftysecond legislature, second regular session, relating to the
regulation of measuring and reporting energy usage and consumption, becomes
law.

