







REFERENCE TITLE: omnibus education







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2189









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer: Senator Allen S





AN ACT

AMENDING section
15342, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing Sections 15-348, 15-351,
15-352, 15-706, 15-707, 15-708, 15-709, 15-711.01, 15-712.01, 15-713, 15-714,
15-714.01, 15-716, 15-718, 15-718.01 and 15-720.02, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending section 36884, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 411279.03,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-342, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-342.Discretionary powers
A.The
governing board may TAKE any ACTIONS
that ARE NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE TO ACQUIRE, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN PROPERTY OF
THE SCHOOL DISTRICT AND PROVIDE EDUCATION AND RELATED SERVICES TO PUPILS if ITS
ACTIONS COMPLY WITH ANY MANDATORY DUTY OR RESTRICTION OF AUTHORITY OF THE
GOVERNING BOARD prescribed in the laws of this state, RULEs adopted by THE
STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION OR rules adopted by the SCHOOL FACILITIES BOARD.
B.PURSUANT
TO THE GRANT OF DISCRETIONARY POWERS TO THE GOVERNING BOARD PURSUANT TO THIS
SECTION, THE GOVERNING BOARD MAY, WITHOUT LIMITATION:
1.Expel pupils for misconduct.
2.Exclude from grades one through eight children
under six years of age.
3.Make such separation of groups of pupils as it
deems advisable.
4.Maintain such special schools during vacation as
deemed necessary for the benefit of the pupils of the school district.
5.Permit a superintendent or principal or
representatives of the superintendent or principal to travel for a school
purpose, as determined by a majority vote of the board.The board
may permit members and memberselect of the board to travel within or
without the school district for a school purpose and receive reimbursement.Any
expenditure for travel and subsistence pursuant to this paragraph shall be as
provided in title 38, chapter 4, article 2.The designated post of
duty referred to in section 38621 shall be construed, for school
district governing board members, to be the member's actual place of residence,
as opposed to the school district office or the school district
boundaries.Such expenditures shall be a charge against the budgeted
school district funds. The governing board of a school district shall prescribe
procedures and amounts for reimbursement of lodging and subsistence expenses.
Reimbursement amounts shall not exceed the maximum amounts established pursuant
to section 38624, subsection C.
6.Construct or provide in rural districts housing
facilities for teachers and other school employees that the board determines
are necessary for the operation of the school.
7.Sell or lease to the state, a county, a city,
another school district or a tribal government agency any school property
required for a public purpose, provided the sale or lease of the property will
not affect the normal operations of a school within the school district.
8.Annually budget and expend funds for membership
in an association of school districts within this state.
9.Enter into leases or leasepurchase
agreements for school buildings or grounds, or both, as lessor or as lessee,
for periods of less than ten years subject to voter approval for construction
of school buildings as prescribed in section 15341, subsection A, paragraph
7.
10.Subject to chapter 16 of this title, sell school
sites or enter into leases or leasepurchase agreements for school
buildings and grounds, as lessor or as lessee, for a period of ten years or
more, but not to exceed ninetynine years, if authorized by a vote of the
school district electors in an election called by the governing board as
provided in section 15491, except that authorization by the school
district electors in an election is not required if one of the following
requirements is met:
(a)The market value of the school property is less
than fifty thousand dollars or the property is procured through a renewable
energy development agreement, an energy performance contract, which among other
items includes a renewable energy power service agreement, or a simplified
energy performance contract pursuant to section 15213.01.
(b)The buildings and sites are completely funded
with monies distributed by the school facilities board.
(c)The transaction involves the sale of improved or
unimproved property pursuant to an agreement with the school facilities board
in which the school district agrees to sell the improved or unimproved property
and transfer the proceeds of the sale to the school facilities board in
exchange for monies from the school facilities board for the acquisition of a
more suitable school site. For a sale of property acquired by a school
district prior to July 9, 1998, a school district shall transfer to the school
facilities board that portion of the proceeds that equals the cost of the
acquisition of a more suitable school site.If there are any
remaining proceeds after the transfer of monies to the school facilities board,
a school district shall only use those remaining proceeds for future land
purchases approved by the school facilities board, or for capital improvements
not funded by the school facilities board for any existing or future facility.
(d)The transaction involves the sale of improved or
unimproved property pursuant to a formally adopted plan and the school district
uses the proceeds of this sale to purchase other property that will be used for
similar purposes as the property that was originally sold, provided that the
sale proceeds of the improved or unimproved property are used within two years
after the date of the original sale to purchase the replacement property. If
the sale proceeds of the improved or unimproved property are not used within
two years after the date of the original sale to purchase replacement property,
the sale proceeds shall be used towards payment of any outstanding bonded
indebtedness. If any sale proceeds remain after paying for outstanding bonded
indebtedness, or if the district has no outstanding bonded indebtedness, sale
proceeds shall be used to reduce the district's primary tax levy. A school
district shall not use this subdivision unless all of the following conditions
exist:
(i)The school district is the sole owner of the
improved or unimproved property that the school district intends to sell.
(ii)The school district did not purchase the
improved or unimproved property that the school district intends to sell with
monies that were distributed pursuant to chapter 16 of this title.
(iii)The transaction does not violate section 15341,
subsection G.
11.Review the decision of a teacher to promote a
pupil to a grade or retain a pupil in a grade in a common school or to pass or
fail a pupil in a course in high school.The pupil has the burden of
proof to overturn the decision of a teacher to promote, retain, pass or fail
the pupil. In order to sustain the burden of proof, the pupil shall
demonstrate to the governing board that the pupil has mastered the academic
standards adopted by the state board of education pursuant to sections 15701
and 15701.01.If the governing board overturns the decision
of a teacher pursuant to this paragraph, the governing board shall adopt a
written finding that the pupil has mastered the academic standards.
Notwithstanding title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1, the governing board shall review
the decision of a teacher to promote a pupil to a grade or retain a pupil in a
grade in a common school or to pass or fail a pupil in a course in high school
in executive session unless a parent or legal guardian of the pupil or the
pupil, if emancipated, disagrees that the review should be conducted in
executive session and then the review shall be conducted in an open meeting.
If the review is conducted in executive session, the board shall notify the
teacher of the date, time and place of the review and shall allow the teacher
to be present at the review. If the teacher is not present at the review, the
board shall consult with the teacher before making its decision. Any request,
including the written request as provided in section 15341, the written
evidence presented at the review and the written record of the review,
including the decision of the governing board to accept or reject the teacher's
decision, shall be retained by the governing board as part of its permanent
records.
12.Provide transportation or site transportation
loading and unloading areas for any child or children if deemed for the best
interest of the district, whether within or without the district, county or
state.
13.Enter into intergovernmental agreements and
contracts with school districts or other governing bodies as provided in
section 11952. Intergovernmental
agreements and contracts between school districts or between a school district
and other governing bodies as provided in section 11952 are exempt from
competitive bidding under the procurement rules adopted by the state board of
education pursuant to section 15213.
14.Include in the curricula it prescribes for high
schools in the school district career and technical education, vocational
education and technology education programs and career and technical,
vocational and technology program improvement services for the high schools,
subject to approval by the state board of education. The governing board may
contract for the provision of career and technical, vocational and technology
education as provided in section 15789.
15.Suspend a teacher or administrator from the
teacher's or administrator's duties without pay for a period of time of not to
exceed ten school days, if the board determines that suspension is warranted
pursuant to section 15341, subsection A, paragraphs 21 and 22.
16.Dedicate school property within an incorporated
city or town to such city or town or within a county to that county for use as
a public rightofway if both of the following apply:
(a)Pursuant to an ordinance adopted by such city,
town or county, there will be conferred upon the school district privileges and
benefits that may include benefits related to zoning.
(b)The dedication will not affect the normal
operation of any school within the district.
17.Enter into option agreements for the purchase of
school sites.
18.Donate surplus or outdated learning materials,
educational equipment and furnishings to nonprofit community organizations
where the governing board determines that the anticipated cost of selling the
learning materials, educational equipment or furnishings equals or exceeds the
estimated market value of the materials.
19.Prescribe policies for the assessment of
reasonable fees for students to use districtprovided parking
facilities.The fees are to be applied by the district solely
against costs incurred in operating or securing the parking facilities. Any
policy adopted by the governing board pursuant to this paragraph shall include
a fee waiver provision in appropriate cases of need or economic hardship.
20.Establish alternative educational programs that
are consistent with the laws of this state to educate pupils, including pupils
who have been reassigned pursuant to section 15841, subsection E or F.
21.Require a period of silence to be observed at
the commencement of the first class of the day in the schools. If a governing
board chooses to require a period of silence to be observed, the teacher in
charge of the room in which the first class is held shall announce that a
period of silence not to exceed one minute in duration will be observed for
meditation, and during that time no activities shall take place and silence
shall be maintained.
22.Require students to wear uniforms.
23.Exchange unimproved property or improved
property, including school sites, where the governing board determines that the
improved property is unnecessary for the continued operation of the school
district without requesting authorization by a vote of the school district
electors if the governing board determines that the exchange is necessary to
protect the health, safety or welfare of pupils or when the governing board
determines that the exchange is based on sound business principles for either:
(a)Unimproved or improved property of equal or
greater value.
(b)Unimproved property that the owner contracts to
improve if the value of the property ultimately received by the school district
is of equal or greater value.
24.For common and high school pupils, assess
reasonable fees for optional extracurricular activities and programs conducted
when the common or high school is not in session, except that no fees shall be
charged for pupils' access to or use of computers or related materials. For
high school pupils, the governing board may assess reasonable fees for fine
arts and vocational education courses and for optional services, equipment and
materials offered to the pupils beyond those required to successfully complete
the basic requirements of any other course, except that no fees shall be
charged for pupils' access to or use of computers or related materials. Fees
assessed pursuant to this paragraph shall be adopted at a public meeting after
notice has been given to all parents of pupils enrolled at schools in the
district and shall not exceed the actual costs of the activities, programs,
services, equipment or materials. The governing board shall authorize
principals to waive the assessment of all or part of a fee assessed pursuant to
this paragraph if it creates an economic hardship for a pupil. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "extracurricular activity" means any
optional, noncredit, educational or recreational activity that supplements the
education program of the school, whether offered before, during or after
regular school hours.
25.Notwithstanding section 15341, subsection
A, paragraphs 7 and 9, construct school buildings and purchase or lease school
sites, without a vote of the school district electors, if the buildings and
sites are totally funded from one or more of the following:
(a)Monies in the unrestricted capital outlay fund,
except that the estimated cost shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand
dollars for a district that utilizes section 15949.
(b)Monies distributed from the school facilities
board established by section 152001.
(c)Monies specifically donated for the purpose of
constructing school buildings.
This paragraph shall not be construed
to eliminate the requirement for an election to raise revenues for a capital
outlay override pursuant to section 15481 or a bond election pursuant to
section 15491.
26.Conduct a background investigation that includes
a fingerprint check conducted pursuant to section 411750, subsection G
for certificated personnel and personnel who are not paid employees of the
school district, as a condition of employment.A school district may
release the results of a background check to another school district for
employment purposes.The school district may charge the costs of
fingerprint checks to its fingerprinted employee, except that the school
district may not charge the costs of fingerprint checks for personnel who are
not paid employees of the school district.
27.Unless otherwise prohibited by law, sell
advertising as follows:
(a)Advertisements shall be age appropriate and not
contain promotion of any substance that is illegal for minors such as alcohol,
tobacco and drugs or gambling. Advertisements shall comply with the state sex
education policy of abstinence.
(b)Advertising approved by the governing board for
the exterior of school buses may appear only on the sides of the bus in the
following areas:
(i)The signs shall be below the seat level rub rail
and not extend above the bottom of the side windows.
(ii)The signs shall be at least three inches from
any required lettering, lamp, wheel well or reflector behind the service door
or stop signal arm.
(iii)The signs shall not extend from the body of
the bus so as to allow a handhold or present a danger to pedestrians.
(iv)The signs shall not interfere with the
operation of any door or window.
(v)The signs shall not be placed on any emergency
doors.
(c)The school district shall establish an
advertisement fund that is composed of revenues from the sale of
advertising.The monies in an advertisement fund are not subject to
reversion.
28.Assess reasonable damage deposits to pupils in
grades seven through twelve for the use of textbooks, musical instruments, band
uniforms or other equipment required for academic courses.The
governing board shall adopt policies on any damage deposits assessed pursuant
to this paragraph at a public meeting called for this purpose after providing
notice to all parents of pupils in grades seven through twelve in the school
district. Principals of individual schools within the district may waive the
damage deposit requirement for any textbook or other item if the payment of the
damage deposit would create an economic hardship for the pupil. The school
district shall return the full amount of the damage deposit for any textbook or
other item if the pupil returns the textbook or other item in reasonably good
condition within the time period prescribed by the governing
board.For the purposes of this paragraph, "in reasonably good
condition" means the textbook or other item is in the same or a similar
condition as it was when the pupil received it, plus ordinary wear and tear.
29.Notwithstanding section 151105, expend
surplus monies in the civic center school fund for maintenance and operations
or unrestricted capital outlay, if sufficient monies are available in the fund
after meeting the needs of programs established pursuant to section 151105.
30.Notwithstanding section 151143, expend
surplus monies in the community school program fund for maintenance and
operations or unrestricted capital outlay, if sufficient monies are available
in the fund after meeting the needs of programs established pursuant to section
151142.
31.Adopt guidelines for standardization of the
format of the school report cards required by section 15746 for schools
within the district.
32.Adopt policies that require parental
notification when a law enforcement officer interviews a pupil on school
grounds. Policies adopted pursuant to this paragraph shall not impede a peace
officer from the performance of the peace officer's duties. If the school
district governing board adopts a policy that requires parental notification:
(a)The policy may provide reasonable exceptions to
the parental notification requirement.
(b)The policy shall set forth whether and under
what circumstances a parent may be present when a law enforcement officer
interviews the pupil, including reasonable exceptions to the circumstances
under which a parent may be present when a law enforcement officer interviews
the pupil, and shall specify a reasonable maximum time after a parent is
notified that an interview of a pupil by a law enforcement officer may be
delayed to allow the parent to be present.
33.Enter into voluntary partnerships with any party
to finance with funds other than school district funds and cooperatively design
school facilities that comply with the adequacy standards prescribed in section
152011 and the square footage per pupil requirements pursuant to section
152041, subsection D, paragraph 3, subdivision (b).The
design plans and location of any such school facility shall be submitted to the
school facilities board for approval pursuant to section 152041,
subsection 0. If the school facilities board approves the design plans and
location of any such school facility, the party in partnership with the school
district may cause to be constructed and the district may begin operating the
school facility before monies are distributed from the school facilities board
pursuant to section 152041.Monies distributed from the new
school facilities fund to a school district in a partnership with another party
to finance and design the school facility shall be paid to the school district
pursuant to section 152041. The school district shall reimburse the
party in partnership with the school district from the monies paid to the
school district pursuant to section 152041, in accordance with the
voluntary partnership agreement.Before the school facilities board
distributes any monies pursuant to this subsection, the school district shall
demonstrate to the school facilities board that the facilities to be funded
pursuant to section 152041, subsection O meet the minimum adequacy
standards prescribed in section 152011. If the cost to construct the
school facility exceeds the amount that the school district receives from the
new school facilities fund, the partnership agreement between the school
district and the other party shall specify that, except as otherwise provided
by the other party, any such excess costs shall be the responsibility of the
school district. The school district governing board shall adopt a resolution
in a public meeting that an analysis has been conducted on the prospective
effects of the decision to operate a new school with existing monies from the
school district's maintenance and operations budget and how this decision may
affect other schools in the school district.If a school district
acquires land by donation at an appropriate school site approved by the school
facilities board and a school facility is financed and built on the land
pursuant to this paragraph, the school facilities board shall distribute an
amount equal to twenty per cent
percent of the fair
market value of the land that can be used for academic purposes.The
school district shall place the monies in the unrestricted capital outlay fund
and increase the unrestricted capital budget limit by the amount of the monies
placed in the fund. Monies distributed under this paragraph shall be distributed
from the new school facilities fund pursuant to section 15-2041. If a school
district acquires land by donation at an appropriate school site approved by
the school facilities board and a school facility is financed and built on the
land pursuant to this paragraph, the school district shall not receive monies
from the school facilities board for the donation of real property pursuant to
section 15-2041, subsection F. It is unlawful for:
(a)A county, city or town to require as a condition
of any land use approval that a landowner or landowners that entered into a
partnership pursuant to this paragraph provide any contribution, donation or
gift, other than a site donation, to a school district. This subdivision only
applies to the property in the voluntary partnership agreement pursuant to this
paragraph.
(b)A county, city or town to require as a condition
of any land use approval that the landowner or landowners located within the
geographic boundaries of the school subject to the voluntary partnership
pursuant to this paragraph provide any donation or gift to the school district
except as provided in the voluntary partnership agreement pursuant to this
paragraph.
(c)A community facilities district established
pursuant to title 48, chapter 4, article 6 to be used for reimbursement of
financing the construction of a school pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)A school district to enter into an agreement
pursuant to this paragraph with any party other than a master planned community
party. Any land area consisting of at least three hundred twenty acres that is
the subject of a development agreement with a county, city or town entered into
pursuant to section 9500.05 or 111101 shall be deemed to be a
master planned community.For the purposes of this subdivision,
"master planned community" means a land area consisting of at least
three hundred twenty acres, which may be noncontiguous, that is the subject of
a zoning ordinance approved by the governing body of the county, city or town in
which the land is located that establishes the use of the land area as a
planned area development or district, planned community development or
district, planned unit development or district or other land use category or
district that is recognized in the local ordinance of such county, city or town
and that specifies the use of such land is for a master planned development.
34.Enter into an intergovernmental agreement with a
presiding judge of the juvenile court to implement a law related lawrelated education program as defined
in section 15154.The presiding judge of the juvenile court
may assign juvenile probation officers to participate in a law related lawrelated education program in any
school district in the county.The cost of juvenile probation officers
who participate in the program implemented pursuant to this paragraph shall be
funded by the school district.
35.Offer to sell outdated learning materials,
educational equipment or furnishings at a posted price commensurate with the
value of the items to pupils who are currently enrolled in that school district
before those materials are offered for public sale.
36.If the school district is a small school
district as defined in section 15901, and if permitted by federal law,
opt out of federal grant opportunities if the governing board determines that
the federal requirements impose unduly burdensome reporting requirements. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Sections 15-348,
15-351, 15-352, 15-706, 15-707, 15-708, 15-709, 15711.01, 15-712.01, 15-713, 15-714, 15-714.01, 15-716, 15-718, 15-718.01 and 15-720.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, are
repealed.
Sec.3.Section 36-884, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-884.Exemptions
This article does not apply to the care given to children by or
in:
1.The homes of parents or blood relatives.
2.A religious institution conducting a nursery in
conjunction with its religious services or conducting parentsupervised
occasional dropin care.
3.A unit of the public school system, including
specialized professional services provided by school districts for the sole
purpose of meeting mandated requirements to address the physical and mental impairments
prescribed in section 15771.If a public school provides
child care other than during the school's
regular hours or for children who are not regularly enrolled in
kindergarten programs or grades one through twelve, that portion of the school
that provides this child
care is subject to standards of care prescribed pursuant to section 36883.04.
4.A regularly organized private school engaged in
an educational program that may be attended in substitution for public school
pursuant to section 15802.If the school provides child care
beyond regular public school hours or for children who are not regularly
enrolled in kindergarten programs or grades one through twelve, that portion of
the school providing such care shall be considered a child care facility and is
subject to this article.
5.Any facility that provides training only in
specific subjects, including dancing, drama, music, selfdefense or
religion and tutoring provided by public schools solely to improve school
performance.
6.Any facility that provides only recreational or
instructional activities to school age children who may enter into and depart
from the facility at their own volition. The facility may require the children
to document their entrance into and departure from the facility. This
documentation does not affect the exemption under this
paragraph.The facility shall post a notice stating it is not a
licensed child care facility under section 36882.
7.Any of the Arizona state schools for the deaf and
the blind.
8.A facility that provides only educational
instruction for children who are at least three and not older than six years of
age if all the following are true:
(a)The facility instructs only in the core subjects
of math, reading and science.
(b)The facility does not accept statesubsidized
tuition for the children.
(c)A child is present at the facility for not more
than two and onequarter hours a day and not more than three days a week.
(d)The instruction is not provided in place of care
ordinarily provided by a parent or guardian.
(e)The facility posts a notice that the facility is
not licensed under this article.
(f)The facility requires fingerprint cards of all
personnel pursuant to section 36883.02.
9.A facility that operates a day camp that provides
recreational programs to children if all of the following are true:
(a)The day camp is accredited by a nationally
recognized accrediting organization for day camps as approved by the
department.
(b)The day camp operates for less than twenty-four hours
a day and less than ten weeks each calendar year.
(c)The day camp posts a notice at the facility and
on its website that it is not licensed under the laws of this state as a child
care facility.
(d)The day camp provides programs only to children
who are at least five years of age.
(e)The day camp requires fingerprint cards of all
personnel pursuant to section 36883.02. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Section 41-1279.03,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.5.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular session.

