







REFERENCE TITLE: employment security; time frames;
  appeals







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2113









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Cobb, Fann, Farnsworth E, Olson: Allen J, Finchem, Norgaard,
  Rivero, Shope, Senator Lesko





AN ACT

Amending sections
23672 and 23724, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to employment
security.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-672, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-672.Appeals board; review of board decision
A.Within the department, an appeals board is
established consisting of four members. The director shall appoint the members
of the appeals board and shall designate one member to serve as chairman.
B.Hearings conducted by or at the direction of the
appeals board shall be conducted as provided by section 23674 and other
provisions of this chapter.The department shall prescribe by rule
the procedures for petitioning for review, removal of cases to the board and
appeals under section 23673. An interested party may file either a
written or electronic petition for review. On the filing of a petition for
review, the department shall prepare a complete record unless the parties
stipulate otherwise.
C.In any case in which a petition for review of an
appeal tribunal or hearing officer decision has been filed by an interested
party, the appeals board may remand the case to any appeal tribunal or hearing
officer for further proceedings or may review the matter on the basis of the
record in the case, take additional evidence or rehear the matter and affirm,
reverse, modify or set aside the decision of the appeal tribunal or hearing
officer. On notice to the interested parties, a petition for review may be
reviewed by one member of the appeals board designated by the
chairman.If an interested party objects to review by one board
member, the matter shall be heard by three members of the appeals board.
D.Unless a petition for hearing or review of a
department determination made under article 5 of this chapter is withdrawn, the
appeals board after affording the parties reasonable opportunity for a fair
hearing shall issue its decision.
E.Every decision of the appeals board shall be in
writing.If the decision is issued by three members of the appeals
board, and the appeals board is not unanimous, the decision of the majority shall
control.The minority may file a dissent from the decision, setting
forth the reasons for the dissent.All interested parties shall be
promptly notified of the decision and the reasons for the decision. Notice to
the parties of the decision shall be accompanied by instructions explaining the
procedure for requesting review as described in subsection F of this section
and clearly indicating the final date for filing a request for review.
F.A party dissatisfied with the decision under
subsection E of this section may file a request for review within thirty days from after the date of the decision, which shall be
a written or electronic request and memorandum stating the reasons why the
appeals board's decision is in error and containing appropriate citations of
the record, rules and other authority. On motion, and for good cause, the
appeals board may extend the time for filing a request for review. The timely
filing of such a request for review is a prerequisite to any further
appeal.The appeals board shall notify all parties of the filing of
a request for review and shall allow fifteen days from the date of the notice
for any party to respond. Thereafter, within
ninety days after the request for review is filed, the appeals
board shall issue a decision on review affirming, modifying or reversing its the decision, or ordering the taking of additional
testimony.All parties shall be given written notice by mail of the
decision on review. 
G.If an
employing unit files a timely request and the appeals board does not issue a
decision on review pursuant to subsection F of this section, the decision shall
be deemed in favor of the employing unit's request for reconsideration,
petition for hearing or review or request for review and, to the extent applicable,
on written notice from the employing unit of the expiration of the ninetyday
period prescribed by subsection F of this section, the department shall provide
refunds or adjustments pursuant to section 23741 or 23742. The
written notice prescribed in this subsection is effective on the date that the
written notice is postmarked, delivered by fax or hand delivered to the
department. Any action taken by the department or the appeals board after
receipt of the written notice is untimely. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 23-724, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-724.Liability determinations; review; finality
A.When the department makes a determination, which
determination shall be made either on the motion of the department or on
application of an employing unit, that an employing unit constitutes an
employer as defined in section 23613 or that services performed for or
in connection with the business of an employing unit constitute employment as
defined in section 23615 that is not exempt under section 23617
or that remuneration for services constitutes wages as defined in section 23622,
the determination shall become final with respect to the employing unit sixty
days after written notice is served personally, by electronic transmission or
by certified mail if the determination was made on the basis of section 23613.01,
or by first class mail if the determination was made by any other basis,
addressed to the last known address of the employing unit, unless within such
time the employing unit files a written request for reconsideration. If an employing unit files a timely request
for reconsideration as prescribed by this subsection, the department shall
issue the reconsideration determination within one year after the date the
request for reconsideration is filed.
B.When a request for reconsideration is filed as
prescribed in subsection A of this section, a reconsidered determination shall
be made. The reconsidered determination shall become final with respect to the
employing unit thirty days after written notice of the reconsidered
determination is served personally, by electronic transmission or by mail
addressed to the last known address of the employing unit, unless within such
time the employing unit files with the appeals board a written petition for
hearing or review.The department may for good cause extend the
period within which the written petition is to be submitted.If an employing unit files a timely petition
for hearing or review as prescribed by this subsection, the appeals board shall
conduct the hearing within ninety days after the petition for hearing or review
is filed.If the reconsidered determination is appealed
to the appeals board and the decision by the appeals board is that the
employing unit is liable, the employing unit shall submit all required
contribution and wage reports to the department within fortyfive days
after the decision by the appeals board.
C.If the
department does not issue a reconsideration determination or the appeals board
does not conduct a hearing within the time frames provided in subsection A or B
of this section, the decision shall be deemed in favor of the employing unit's
request for reconsideration or petition for HEARING OR review and, to the
extent applicable, on written notice from the employing unit of the expiration
of the time frame prescribed by subsection A or B of this section, the
department shall provide refunds or adjustments pursuant to section 23741
or 23742. The written notice required by this subsection is effective
on the date that the written notice is postmarked, delivered by fax or hand
delivered to the department. Any action taken by the department or the appeals
board after receipt of the written notice is untimely.
C.D.On an
employer's written request and the submission of pertinent information to the
department, the department shall, or on its own motion may, consider whether a
determination, reconsidered determination or decision which that
has become final should be revised. Revision shall be granted if
either:
1.There has been a substantial and material change
in the facts on which the determination, reconsidered determination or decision
relied.
2.There has been a change in the law or
interpretation of the law which
that warrants a revised
determination, reconsidered determination or decision.
D.E.The
effective date of a revision under subsection C D
of this section is either:
1.The date on which the change occurred if the
employer's request with the pertinent information is filed no later than the
last day of the month immediately subsequent to the calendar quarter in which
the change occurred.
2.The first day of the calendar quarter in which
the employer files the request and submits the pertinent information unless the
employer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the department that good cause
exists for the failure to notify the department within the period prescribed by
paragraph 1 of this subsection of the occurrence of the change warranting the
revision.In the event such good cause is demonstrated, the
effective date shall be the date of the change.
E.F.A
refusal to grant relief under subsection C
D of this section may not
be appealed unless within thirty days the employer appeals the refusal to the
appeals board.Notwithstanding any other provision of law and
pursuant to such an appeal, the appeals board may initiate hearings to obtain
information and issue a decision as to whether the relief requested in
subsection C D of this section should be
granted.Thereafter, the appeals board shall issue a decision in the
matter.The decision may not be appealed with respect to the
employing unit unless petition for review and request for review are filed
within the time and in the manner provided in section 23672.
F.G.The
determination of the department or decision of the appeals board, together with
the record, shall be admissible in any subsequent judicial proceeding involving
liability for contributions.A determination or decision that an
employing unit is liable that has become final shall be conclusive and binding
on the employing unit and shall not be reconsidered in proceedings brought
before the department or a hearing officer.
G.H.Any
determination issued on the basis of section 23613.01 pursuant to
subsection A of this section and any reconsidered determination issued pursuant
to subsection B of this section and any contribution rate redetermination or
denial issued pursuant to section 23732, subsection A shall contain the
following:
1.The facts considered and the facts relied on in
making the determination.
2.The specific statutes, regulations or other
authority relied on in making the determination.
3.The reasoning applied in making the
determination.
4.The appeal rights related to the determination
and the time period after which the determination becomes final.
H.I.If
any determination covered by subsection G
H of this section is
defective because it fails to meet the requirements of subsection G H of this section, the defect may be cured by
issuance of a corrected, amended or new determination.If a defect
is alleged and specified in writing within the period for appeal, all time
periods applicable to the determination are suspended pending the curative
action.
I.J.This
section does not preclude the department from at any time correcting clerical
errors that have occurred in the administration of this chapter.
J.K.A
determination, reconsidered determination, revision or refusal to grant relief
under this section may be served by electronic means if the party being served
consents in writing to service by electronic means. Service by electronic means
is deemed complete on transmission. END_STATUTE

