







REFERENCE TITLE: ASRS; rulemaking exemption







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2159









Introduced by
Representative
  Thorpe





AN ACT

Amending sections
38714 and 38-721, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona
state retirement system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-714, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-714.Powers and duties of ASRS and board
A.ASRS shall have the powers and privileges of a
corporation, shall have an official seal and shall transact all business in the
name "Arizona state retirement system", and in that name may sue and
be sued.
B.The board is responsible for supervising the
administration of this article by the director of ASRS.
C.The board is responsible for the performance of
fiduciary duties and other responsibilities required to preserve and protect
the retirement trust fund established by section 38712.
D.The board shall not advocate for or against
legislation providing for benefit modifications, except that the board shall
provide technical and administrative information regarding the impact of
benefit modification legislation.
E.The board may:
1.Determine the rights, benefits or obligations of
any person under this article and afford any person dissatisfied with a
determination a hearing on the determination.
2.Determine the amount, manner and time of payment
of any benefits under this article.
3.Recommend amendments to this article and articles
2.1 and 7 of this chapter that are required for efficient and effective
administration.
4.Adopt, amend or repeal rules for the
administration of the plan, this article and articles 2.1 and 7 of this
chapter.
F.Beginning June 30, 2016, the board shall
determine which of the generally accepted actuarial cost methods shall be used
in the annual actuarial valuation of the plan.
G.The board
and ASRS are not subject to title 41, chapter 6, except title 41, chapter 6,
article 10, for actuarial assumptions and calculations, investment strategy and
decisions and accounting methodology.
G.H.The
board shall submit to the governor and legislature for each fiscal year no
later than eight months after the close of the fiscal year a report of its
operations and the operations of ASRS.The report shall follow
generally accepted accounting principles and generally accepted financial reporting
standards and shall include:
1.A report on an actuarial valuation of ASRS assets
and liabilities.
2.Any other statistical and financial data that may
be necessary for the proper understanding of the financial condition of ASRS
and the results of board operations.
3.On request of the governor or the legislature, a
list of investments owned. This list shall be provided in electronic format.
H.I.The
board shall:
1.Prepare and
publish a synopsis of the annual report for the information of ASRS members.
2.Contract for a study of the mortality,
disability, service and other experiences of the members and employers
participating in ASRS.The study shall be conducted for fiscal year
19901991 and for at least every fifth fiscal year thereafter.A
report of the study shall be completed within eight months of
after the close of the applicable fiscal year and shall be
submitted to the governor and the legislature.
3.Conduct an annual actuarial valuation of ASRS
assets and liabilities.
I.J.The
auditor general may make an annual audit of ASRS and transmit the results to
the governor and the legislature. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 38-721, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-721.Administration account
A.ASRS shall maintain an administration account
consisting of all monies for administrative purposes.The following
monies shall be deposited in the administration account:
1.All monies appropriated by the legislature to pay
administrative expenses of ASRS.
2.All monies received for proportionate shares of
administrative expenses from departments that pay the salaries of their
officers and employees wholly or in part from monies received from sources
other than appropriations from the state general fund.
3.All monies received for proportionate shares of
administrative expenses from political subdivisions paying employer
contributions.
4.Monies that the director transfers from the
investment account and that are necessary for the payment of expenditures made
pursuant to subsections C and D of this section.
B.Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, expenditures from the administration account shall be made in accordance
with board directives, subject to legislative appropriation.
C.Expenditures for the following are continuously
appropriated and shall be paid from the administration account in the amount
deemed necessary by the board:
1.Investment management fees and related consulting
fees necessary to meet the board's investment objectives.
2.Rent.
3.Actuarial consulting fees.
4.Retiree payroll.
D.With the approval of the board, the director:
1.May expend monies from the administration account
for staff, expenses and related consulting fees necessary to implement section
38714, subsection E, paragraph 1 and subsection H
I, paragraphs 2 and 3, section 38718, subsection D,
paragraph 5 and sections 38755 and 38756.
2.Shall pay from the administration account the
costs for administering the health insurance program for retired members
pursuant to section 38782, the cost of continuing education programs for
the board and the cost of legal counsel. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Retroactivity
Sections 38714 and 38-721, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by this act, apply retroactively to from and after December 31, 1986.
Sec.4.Purpose
The purpose of this act is to clarify that the Arizona state
retirement system actuarial and investment decisions are fiduciary decisions
that are not subject to rulemaking.

