







REFERENCE TITLE: education omnibus







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2190









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer: Senator Allen S





AN ACT

AMENDING sections
15102, 15152 and 15183, Arizona Revised Statutes;
repealing section 15306, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 15341,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 15349 and 15353,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 15393, Arizona Revised
Statutes; REPEALING section 15505, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
title 15, chapter 5, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 15903,
15910, 151103 and 151107, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-102.Parental involvement in the school; definition
A.The governing board, in consultation with
parents, teachers and administrators, shall develop and adopt a policy to
promote the involvement of parents and guardians of children enrolled in the
schools within the school district, including:
1.A plan for parent participation in the schools which that is designed to improve parent and teacher
cooperation in such areas as homework, attendance and discipline. The plan shall provide for the
administration of a parentteacher satisfaction survey.
2.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
course of study for their children and review learning materials, including the
source of any supplemental educational materials.
3.Procedures by which parents who object to any
learning material or activity on the basis that it is harmful may withdraw
their children from the activity or from the class or program in which the
material is used. Objection to a learning material or activity on the basis
that it is harmful includes objection to a material or activity because it
questions beliefs or practices in sex, morality or religion.
4.If a school district offers any sex education
curricula pursuant to section 15711 or 15716 or pursuant to any
rules adopted by the state board of education, procedures to prohibit a school
district from providing sex education instruction to a pupil unless the pupil's
parent provides written permission for the child to participate in the sex
education curricula.
5.Procedures by which parents will be notified in
advance of and given the opportunity to withdraw their children from any
instruction or presentations regarding sexuality in courses other than formal
sex education curricula.
6.Procedures by which parents may learn about the
nature and purpose of clubs and activities that are part of the school
curriculum, extracurricular clubs and activities that have been approved by the
school.
7.Procedures by which parents may learn about
parental rights and responsibilities under the laws of this state, including
the following:
(a)The right to opt in to a sex education
curriculum if one is provided by the school district.
(b)Open enrollment rights pursuant to section 15816.01.
(c)The right to opt out of assignments pursuant to
this section.
(d)The right to opt out of immunizations pursuant
to section 15873.
(e)The promotion requirements prescribed in section
15701.
(f)The minimum course of study and competency
requirements for graduation from high school prescribed in section 15701.01.
(g)The right to opt out of instruction on the
acquired immune deficiency syndrome pursuant to section 15716.
(h)The right to review test results pursuant to
section 15743.
(i)The right to participate in gifted programs
pursuant to section 15779.01.
(j)The right to access instructional materials
pursuant to section 15730.
(k)The right to receive a school report card
pursuant to section 15746.
(l)The attendance requirements prescribed in
sections 15802, 15803 and 15821.
(m)The right to public review of courses of study
and textbooks pursuant to section 15721.
(n)The right to be excused from school attendance
for religious purposes pursuant to section 15806.
(o)Policies related to parental involvement
pursuant to this section.
(p)The right to seek membership on school councils
pursuant to section 15351.
(q)The right to participate in a parental
satisfaction survey pursuant to section 15353.
(r)Information about the student accountability
information system as prescribed in section 151042 151041.
(s)The right to access the failing schools tutoring
fund pursuant to section 15-241.
B.The policy adopted by the governing board
pursuant to this section may also include the following components:
1.A plan by which parents will be made aware of the
district's parental involvement policy and this section, including:
(a)Rights under the family educational rights and
privacy act of 1974 (20 United States Code section 1232g) relating to access to
children's official records.
(b)The parent's right to inspect the school
district policies and curriculum.
2.Efforts to encourage the development of parenting
skills.
3.The communication to parents of techniques
designed to assist the child's learning experience in the home.
4.Efforts to encourage access to community and
support services for children and families.
5.The promotion of communication between the school
and parents concerning school programs and the academic progress of the
parents' children.
6.Identifying opportunities for parents to
participate in and support classroom instruction at the school.
7.Efforts to support, with appropriate training,
parents as shared decision makers
decision-makers and to
encourage membership on school councils.
8.The recognition of the diversity of parents and
the development of guidelines that promote widespread parental participation
and involvement in the school at various levels.
9.The development of preparation programs and
specialized courses for certificated employees and administrators that promote
parental involvement.
10.The development of strategies and programmatic
structures at schools to encourage and enable parents to participate actively
in their children's education.
C.The governing board may adopt a policy to provide
to parents the information required by this section in an electronic form.
D.A parent shall submit a written request for
information pursuant to this section during regular business hours to either
the school principal at the school site or the superintendent of the school
district at the office of the school district.Within ten days of
receiving the request for information, the school principal or the
superintendent of the school district shall either deliver the requested
information to the parent or submit to the parent a written explanation of the
reasons for the denial of the requested information. If the request for
information is denied or the parent does not receive the requested information
within fifteen days after submitting the request for information, the parent
may submit a written request for the information to the school district
governing board, which shall formally consider the request at the next
scheduled public meeting of the governing board if the request can be properly
noticed on the agenda. If the request cannot be properly noticed on the
agenda, the governing board shall formally consider the request at the next
subsequent public meeting of the governing board.
E.For the purposes of this section,
"parent" means the natural or adoptive parent or legal guardian of a
minor child. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-152.Pest management at schools; notice
A.The governing board of each school district, in consultation with teachers, parents,
guardians, administrators, members of the public, a certified applicator, and
at least one health professional, shall develop and adopt a
policy to provide pupils and employees with at least fortyeight hours'
notice before pesticides are applied on school property, except that A school DISTRICT MAY IMMEDIATELY APPLY
PESTICIDE TO AN IDENTIFIED INFESTATION IF THE school DISTRICT DETERMINES that
THE APPLICATION IS NECESSARY TO ARREST FURTHER INFESTATION AND if REASONABLE
PRECAUTIONS ARE TAKEN TO AVOID EXPOSURE TO EMPLOYEES and pupils.The policy shall include at least the
following:
1.Procedures
for providing the notification including:
(a)Procedures
for oral notification to pupils and employees during a regular school session.
(b)Procedures
for written notification to parents or guardians during a regular school
session.
(c)Procedures
for the posting of signs to identify pesticide application areas.
2.Procedures
for requiring any contracted pest control applicator to provide detailed and
sufficient information to the schools for the purpose of completing the posting
materials.
3.Procedures
providing for continuing instruction for pupils who are absent because of pesticide
application on school property.
B.Each school
district shall maintain written records of pesticide application
notifications.The school district may delegate to the pest control
applicator the duty to fill out and post notices required by district policy.
C.B.For purposes of
this section, "pesticides" does do not include nonrestricted use
disinfectants, sanitizers or deodorizers regulated by the federal insecticide,
fungicide and rodenticide act but includes
include other pesticides
regulated under the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act (P.L.
100532; 102 Stat. 2654; 7 United States Code section 136).END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-183.Charter schools; application; requirements; immunity;
exemptions; renewal of application; reprisal; fee; funds; annual reports
A.An applicant seeking to establish a charter
school shall submit a written application to a proposed sponsor as prescribed
in subsection C of this section.The application, application
process and application time frames shall be posted on the sponsor's website
and shall include the following, as specified in the application adopted by the
sponsor:
1.A detailed educational plan.
2.A detailed business plan.
3.A detailed operational plan.
4.Any other materials required by the sponsor.
B.The sponsor of a charter school may contract with
a public body, private person or private organization for the purpose of
establishing a charter school pursuant to this article.
C.The sponsor of a charter school may be either a
school district governing board, the state board of education, the state board
for charter schools, a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board
of regents, a community college district with enrollment of more than fifteen
thousand fulltime equivalent students or a group of community college
districts with a combined enrollment of more than fifteen thousand fulltime
equivalent students, subject to the following requirements:
1.For charter schools that submit an application
for sponsorship to a school district governing board:
(a)An applicant for a charter school may submit its
application to a school district governing board, which shall either accept or
reject sponsorship of the charter school within ninety days.An
applicant may submit a revised application for reconsideration by the governing
board. If the governing board rejects the application, the governing board
shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the rejection. The
applicant may request, and the governing board may provide, technical
assistance to improve the application.
(b)In the first year that a school district is
determined to be out of compliance with the uniform system of financial
records, within fifteen days of the determination of noncompliance, the school
district shall notify by certified mail each charter school sponsored by the
school district that the school district is out of compliance with the uniform
system of financial records.The notification shall include a
statement that if the school district is determined to be out of compliance for
a second consecutive year, the charter school will be required to transfer
sponsorship to another entity pursuant to subdivision (c) of this paragraph.
(c)In the second consecutive year that a school
district is determined to be out of compliance with the uniform system of
financial records, within fifteen days of the determination of noncompliance,
the school district shall notify by certified mail each charter school
sponsored by the school district that the school district is out of compliance
with the uniform system of financial records.A charter school that
receives a notification of school district noncompliance pursuant to this
subdivision shall file a written sponsorship transfer application within fortyfive
days with the state board of education, the state board for charter schools or
the school district governing board if the charter school is located within the
geographic boundaries of that school district.A charter school that
receives a notification of school district noncompliance may request an
extension of time to file a sponsorship transfer application, and the state
board of education, the state board for charter schools or a school district
governing board may grant an extension of not more than an additional thirty
days if good cause exists for the extension. The state board of education and
the state board for charter schools shall approve a sponsorship transfer
application pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)A school district governing board shall not
grant a charter to a charter school that is located outside the geographic
boundaries of that school district.
(e)A school district that has been determined to be
out of compliance with the uniform system of financial records during either of
the previous two fiscal years shall not sponsor a new or transferring charter
school.
(f)Notwithstanding any other law, a school district
governing board shall not grant a charter to a new charter school that begins
initial operations after June 30, 2013 or convert an existing district public
school to a charter school that begins initial operations after June 30, 2013.
2.The applicant may submit the application to the
state board of education or the state board for charter
schools.Notwithstanding any other law, neither the state board for
charter schools nor the state board of education shall grant a charter to a
school district governing board for a new charter school that begins initial
operations after June 30, 2013 or for the conversion of an existing district
public school to a charter school that begins initial operations after June 30,
2013. The state board of education or the state board for charter schools may
approve the application if the application meets the requirements of this
article and may approve the charter if the proposed sponsor determines, within
its sole discretion, that the applicant is sufficiently qualified to operate a
charter school and that the applicant is applying to operate as a separate
charter holder by considering factors such as whether:
(a)The schools have separate governing bodies,
governing body membership, staff, facilities and student population.
(b)Daily operations are carried out by different
administrators.
(c)The applicant intends to have an affiliation
agreement for the purpose of providing enrollment preferences.
(d)The applicant's charter management organization
has multiple charter holders serving varied grade configurations on one
physical site or nearby sites serving one community.
(e)It is reconstituting an existing school site
population at the same or new site.
(f)It is reconstituting an existing grade
configuration from a prior charter holder with at least one grade remaining on
the original site with the other grade or grades moving to a new site. The
state board of education or the state board for charter schools may approve any
charter schools transferring charters.The state board of education
and the state board for charter schools shall approve any charter schools
transferring charters from a school district that is determined to be out of
compliance with the uniform system of financial records pursuant to this
section, but may require the charter school to sign a new charter that is
equivalent to the charter awarded by the former sponsor.If the
state board of education or the state board for charter schools rejects the
preliminary application, the state board of education or the state board for
charter schools shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the
rejection and of suggestions for improving the application. An applicant may
submit a revised application for reconsideration by the state board of
education or the state board for charter schools. The applicant may request,
and the state board of education or the state board for charter schools may
provide, technical assistance to improve the application.
3.The applicant may submit the application to a
university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, a community
college district or a group of community college districts. A university, a
community college district or a group of community college districts shall not
grant a charter to a school district governing board for a new charter school
that begins initial operations after June 30, 2013 or for the conversion of an
existing district public school to a charter school that begins initial
operations after June 30, 2013. A university, a community college district or
a group of community college districts may approve the application if it meets
the requirements of this article and if the proposed sponsor determines, in its
sole discretion, that the applicant is sufficiently qualified to operate a
charter school.
4.Each applicant seeking to establish a charter
school shall submit a full set of fingerprints to the approving agency for the
purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to
section 411750 and Public Law 92544.If an applicant
will have direct contact with students, the applicant shall possess a valid
fingerprint clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12,
article 3.1.The department of public safety may exchange this
fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.The
criminal records check shall be completed before the issuance of a charter.
5.All persons engaged in instructional work
directly as a classroom, laboratory or other teacher or indirectly as a
supervisory teacher, speech therapist or principal shall have a valid
fingerprint clearance card that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12,
article 3.1, unless the person is a volunteer or guest speaker who is
accompanied in the classroom by a person with a valid fingerprint clearance
card. A charter school shall not employ a teacher whose certificate has been
surrendered or revoked, unless the teacher's certificate has been subsequently
reinstated by the state board of education.All other personnel
shall be fingerprint checked pursuant to section 15512, or the charter
school may require those personnel to obtain a fingerprint clearance card
issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article3.1. Before employment,
the charter school shall make documented, good faith efforts to contact
previous employers of a person to obtain information and recommendations that
may be relevant to a person's fitness for employment as prescribed in section
15512, subsection F.The charter school shall notify the
department of public safety if the charter school or sponsor receives credible
evidence that a person who possesses a valid fingerprint clearance card is
arrested for or is charged with an offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B.Charter schools may hire personnel that have not yet
received a fingerprint clearance card if proof is provided of the submission of
an application to the department of public safety for a fingerprint clearance
card and if the charter school that is seeking to hire the applicant does all
of the following:
(a)Documents in the applicant's file the necessity
for hiring and placement of the applicant before receiving a fingerprint
clearance card.
(b)Ensures that the department of public safety
completes a statewide criminal records check on the applicant. A statewide
criminal records check shall be completed by the department of public safety
every one hundred twenty days until the date that the fingerprint check is completed
or the fingerprint clearance card is issued or denied.
(c)Obtains references from the applicant's current
employer and the two most recent previous employers except for applicants who
have been employed for at least five years by the applicant's most recent
employer.
(d)Provides general supervision of the applicant
until the date that the fingerprint card is obtained.
(e)Completes a search of criminal records in all
local jurisdictions outside of this state in which the applicant has lived in the
previous five years.
(f)Verifies the fingerprint status of the applicant
with the department of public safety.
6.A charter school that complies with the
fingerprinting requirements of this section shall be deemed to have complied
with section 15512 and is entitled to the same rights and protections
provided to school districts by section 15512.
7.If a charter school operator is not already
subject to a public meeting or hearing by the municipality in which the charter
school is located, the operator of a charter school shall conduct a public
meeting at least thirty days before the charter school operator opens a site or
sites for the charter school. The charter school operator shall post notices
of the public meeting in at least three different locations that are within
three hundred feet of the proposed charter school site.
8.A person who is employed by a charter school or
who is an applicant for employment with a charter school, who is arrested for
or charged with a nonappealable offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B and who does not immediately report the arrest or charge to the
person's supervisor or potential employer is guilty of unprofessional conduct
and the person shall be immediately dismissed from employment with the charter
school or immediately excluded from potential employment with the charter
school.
9.A person who is employed by a charter school and
who is convicted of any nonappealable offense listed in section 411758.03,
subsection B or is convicted of any nonappealable offense that amounts to
unprofessional conduct under section 15550 shall immediately do all of
the following:
(a)Surrender any certificates issued by the
department of education.
(b)Notify the person's employer or potential
employer of the conviction.
(c)Notify the department of public safety of the
conviction.
(d)Surrender the person's fingerprint clearance
card.
D.An entity that is authorized to sponsor charter
schools pursuant to this article has no legal authority over or responsibility
for a charter school sponsored by a different entity. This subsection does not
apply to the state board of education's duty to exercise general supervision
over the public school system pursuant to section 15203, subsection A,
paragraph 1.
E.The charter of a charter school shall do all of
the following:
1.Ensure compliance with federal, state and local
rules, regulations and statutes relating to health, safety, civil rights and
insurance.The department of education shall publish a list of
relevant rules, regulations and statutes to notify charter schools of their
responsibilities under this paragraph.
2.Ensure that it is nonsectarian in its programs,
admission policies and employment practices and all other operations.
3.Ensure that it provides a comprehensive program
of instruction for at least a kindergarten program or any grade between grades
one and twelve, except that a school may offer this curriculum with an emphasis
on a specific learning philosophy or style or certain subject areas such as
mathematics, science, fine arts, performance arts or foreign language.
4.Ensure that it designs a method to measure pupil
progress toward the pupil outcomes adopted by the state board of education
pursuant to section 15741.01, including participation in the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test and the nationally standardized normreferenced
achievement test as designated by the state board and the completion and
distribution of an annual report card as prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of
this title.
5.Ensure that, except as provided in this article
and in its charter, it is exempt from all statutes and rules relating to
schools, governing boards and school districts.
6.Ensure that, except as provided in this article,
it is subject to the same financial and electronic data submission requirements
as a school district, including the uniform system of financial records as
prescribed in chapter 2, article 4 of this title, procurement rules as
prescribed in section 15213 and audit requirements. The auditor general
shall conduct a comprehensive review and revision of the uniform system of
financial records to ensure that the provisions of the uniform system of
financial records that relate to charter schools are in accordance with
commonly accepted accounting principles used by private business.A
school's charter may include exceptions to the requirements of this paragraph
that are necessary as determined by the district governing board, the
university, the community college district, the group of community college
districts, the state board of education or the state board for charter
schools.The department of education or the office of the auditor
general may conduct financial, program or compliance audits.
7.Ensure compliance with all federal and state laws
relating to the education of children with disabilities in the same manner as a
school district.
8.Ensure that it provides for a governing body for
the charter school that is responsible for the policy decisions of the charter
school. Notwithstanding section 1216, if there is a vacancy or
vacancies on the governing body, a majority of the remaining members of the
governing body constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, unless that
quorum is prohibited by the charter school's operating agreement.
9.Ensure that it provides a minimum of one hundred
eighty instructional days before June 30 of each fiscal year unless it is
operating on an alternative calendar approved by its sponsor.The
superintendent of public instruction shall adjust the apportionment schedule
accordingly to accommodate a charter school utilizing an alternative calendar.
F.A charter school shall keep on in
the personnel file the
resumes of all current and
former employees who provide instruction to pupils at the charter
school. Resumes shall include an
individual's information
about the employee's educational and teaching background and
experience in a particular academic content subject area. A charter school
shall inform parents and guardians of the availability of the resume information and shall make the resume information available for
inspection on request of parents and guardians of pupils enrolled at the
charter school. This subsection does not require any charter school to release
personally identifiable information in relation to any teacher or employee,
including the teacher's or employee's address, salary, social security number
or telephone number.
G.The charter of a charter school may be amended at
the request of the governing body of the charter school and on the approval of
the sponsor.
H.Charter schools may contract, sue and be sued.
I.The charter is effective for fifteen years from
the first day of the fiscal year as specified in the charter, subject to the
following:
1.At least eighteen months before the expiration of
the charter, the sponsor shall notify the charter school that the charter
school may apply for renewal and shall make the renewal application available
to the charter school.A charter school that elects to apply for
renewal shall file a complete renewal application at least fifteen months
before the expiration of the charter. A sponsor shall give written notice of
its intent not to renew the charter school's request for renewal to the charter
school at least twelve months before the expiration of the charter. The
sponsor shall make data used in making renewal decisions available to the
school and the public and shall provide a public report summarizing the
evidence basis for each decision. The sponsor may deny the request for renewal
if, in its judgment, the charter holder has failed to do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Complete the obligations of the contract.
(d)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
2.A charter operator may apply for early
renewal.At least nine months before the charter school's intended
renewal consideration, the operator of the charter school shall submit a letter
of intent to the sponsor to apply for early renewal.The sponsor shall
review fiscal audits and academic performance data for the charter school that
are annually collected by the sponsor, review the current contract between the
sponsor and the charter school and provide the qualifying charter school with a
renewal application. On submission of a complete application, the sponsor
shall give written notice of its consideration of the renewal application. The
sponsor may deny the request for early renewal if, in the sponsor's judgment,
the charter holder has failed to do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Complete the obligations of the contract.
(d)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
3.A sponsor shall review a charter at fiveyear
intervals using a performance framework adopted by the sponsor and may revoke a
charter at any time if the charter school breaches one or more provisions of
its charter or if the sponsor determines that the charter holder has failed to
do any of the following:
(a)Meet or make sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the performance framework.
(b)Meet the operational performance expectations
set forth in the performance framework or any improvement plans.
(c)Comply with this article or any provision of law
from which the charter school is not exempt.
4.In determining whether to renew or revoke a
charter holder, the sponsor must consider making sufficient progress toward the
academic performance expectations set forth in the sponsor's performance
framework as one of the most important factors.
5.At least sixty days before the effective date of
the proposed revocation, the sponsor shall give written notice to the operator
of the charter school of its intent to revoke the charter.Notice of
the sponsor's intent to revoke the charter shall be delivered personally to the
operator of the charter school or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the charter school.The notice shall
incorporate a statement of reasons for the proposed revocation of the charter.The
sponsor shall allow the charter school at least sixty days to correct the
problems associated with the reasons for the proposed revocation of the
charter.The final determination of whether to revoke the charter
shall be made at a public hearing called for such purpose.
J.The charter may be renewed for successive periods
of twenty years.
K.A charter school that is sponsored by the state
board of education, the state board for charter schools, a university, a
community college district or a group of community college districts may not be
located on the property of a school district unless the district governing
board grants this authority.
L.A governing board or a school district employee
who has control over personnel actions shall not take unlawful reprisal against
another employee of the school district because the employee is directly or
indirectly involved in an application to establish a charter
school.A governing board or a school district employee shall not
take unlawful reprisal against an educational program of the school or the
school district because an application to establish a charter school proposes
the conversion of all or a portion of the educational program to a charter
school. For the purposes of this subsection, "unlawful reprisal" means
an action that is taken by a governing board or a school district employee as a
direct result of a lawful application to establish a charter school and that is
adverse to another employee or an education program and:
1.With respect to a school district employee,
results in one or more of the following:
(a)Disciplinary or corrective action.
(b)Detail, transfer or reassignment.
(c)Suspension, demotion or dismissal.
(d)An unfavorable performance evaluation.
(e)A reduction in pay, benefits or awards.
(f)Elimination of the employee's position without a
reduction in force by reason of lack of monies or work.
(g)Other significant changes in duties or
responsibilities that are inconsistent with the employee's salary or employment
classification.
2.With respect to an educational program, results
in one or more of the following:
(a)Suspension or termination of the program.
(b)Transfer or reassignment of the program to a
less favorable department.
(c)Relocation of the program to a less favorable
site within the school or school district.
(d)Significant reduction or termination of funding
for the program.
M.Charter schools shall secure insurance for
liability and property loss. The governing body of a charter school that is
sponsored by the state board of education or the state board for charter
schools may enter into an intergovernmental agreement or otherwise contract to
participate in an insurance program offered by a risk retention pool
established pursuant to section 11952.01 or 41621.01 or the
charter school may secure its own insurance coverage.The pool may
charge the requesting charter school reasonable fees for any services it
performs in connection with the insurance program.
N.Charter schools do not have the authority to acquire
property by eminent domain.
O.A sponsor, including members, officers and
employees of the sponsor, is immune from personal liability for all acts done
and actions taken in good faith within the scope of its authority.
P.Charter school sponsors and this state are not
liable for the debts or financial obligations of a charter school or persons
who operate charter schools.
Q.The sponsor of a charter school shall establish
procedures to conduct administrative hearings on determination by the sponsor
that grounds exist to revoke a charter. Procedures for administrative hearings
shall be similar to procedures prescribed for adjudicative proceedings in title
41, chapter 6, article 10. Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, final decisions of the state board of education and the state
board for charter schools from hearings conducted pursuant to this subsection
are subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
R.The sponsoring entity of a charter school shall
have oversight and administrative responsibility for the charter schools that
it sponsors.In implementing its oversight and administrative
responsibilities, the sponsor shall ground its actions in evidence of the
charter holder's performance in accordance with the performance framework
adopted by the sponsor.The performance framework shall be publicly
available, shall be placed on the sponsoring entity's website and shall
include:
1.The academic performance expectations of the
charter school and the measurement of sufficient progress toward the academic
performance expectations.
2.The operational expectations of the charter
school, including adherence to all applicable laws and obligations of the
charter contract.
3.Intervention and improvement policies.
S.Charter schools may pledge, assign or encumber
their assets to be used as collateral for loans or extensions of credit.
T.All property accumulated by a charter school
shall remain the property of the charter school.
U.Charter schools may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the
agricultural land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of
section 3365. If the owner agrees in writing to comply with the buffer
zone requirements and records the agreement in the office of the county
recorder as a restrictive covenant running with the title to the land, the
charter school may locate a school within the affected buffer zone. The
agreement may include any stipulations regarding the charter school, including
conditions for future expansion of the school and changes in the operational
status of the school that will result in a breach of the agreement.
V.A transfer of a charter to another sponsor, a
transfer of a charter school site to another sponsor or a transfer of a charter
school site to a different charter shall be completed before the beginning of
the fiscal year that the transfer is scheduled to become effective. An entity
that sponsors charter schools may accept a transferring school after the
beginning of the fiscal year if the transfer is approved by the superintendent
of public instruction.The superintendent of public instruction
shall have the discretion to consider each transfer during the fiscal year on a
case by case basis.If a charter school is sponsored by a school
district that is determined to be out of compliance with this title, the
uniform system of financial records or any other state or federal law, the
charter school may transfer to another sponsoring entity at any time during the
fiscal year. A charter holder seeking to transfer sponsors shall comply with
the current charter terms regarding assignment of the charter.A
charter holder transferring sponsors shall notify the current sponsor that the
transfer has been approved by the new sponsor.
W.Notwithstanding subsection V of this section, a
charter holder on an improvement plan must notify parents or guardians of
registered students of the intent to transfer the charter and the timing of the
proposed transfer.On the approved transfer, the new sponsor shall
enforce the improvement plan but may modify the plan based on performance.
X.Notwithstanding subsection Y of this section, the
state board for charter schools shall charge a processing fee to any charter
school that amends its contract to participate in Arizona online instruction
pursuant to section 15808. The charter Arizona online instruction
processing fund is established consisting of fees collected and administered by
the state board for charter schools. The state board for charter schools shall
use monies in the fund only for the processing of contract amendments for
charter schools participating in Arizona online instruction.Monies
in the fund are continuously appropriated.
Y.The sponsoring entity may not charge any fees to
a charter school that it sponsors unless the sponsor has provided services to
the charter school and the fees represent the full value of those services provided
by the sponsor. On request, the value of the services provided by the sponsor
to the charter school shall be demonstrated to the department of education.
Z.Charter schools may enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with a presiding judge of the juvenile court to
implement a law related education program as defined in section 15154.
The presiding judge of the juvenile court may assign juvenile probation
officers to participate in a law related education program in any charter
school in the county. The cost of juvenile probation officers who participate
in the program implemented pursuant to this subsection shall be funded by the
charter school.
AA.The sponsor of a charter school shall modify
previously approved curriculum requirements for a charter school that wishes to
participate in the board examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6
of this title.
BB.If a charter school decides not to participate
in the board examination system prescribed in chapter 7, article 6 of this title,
pupils enrolled at that charter school may earn a Grand Canyon diploma by
obtaining a passing score on the same board examinations.
CC.Notwithstanding subsection Y of this section, a
sponsor of charter schools may charge a new charter application processing fee
to any applicant. The application fee shall fully cover the cost of application
review and any needed technical assistance. Authorizers may approve policies
that allow a portion of the fee to be returned to the applicant whose charter
is approved.
DD.A charter school may choose to provide a
preschool program for children with disabilities pursuant to section 15771.
EE.Pursuant to the prescribed graduation
requirements adopted by the state board of education, the governing body of a
charter school operating a high school may approve a rigorous computer science
course that would fulfill a mathematics course required for graduation from
high school. The governing body may approve a rigorous computer science course
only if the rigorous computer science course includes significant mathematics
content and the governing body determines the high school where the rigorous
computer science course is offered has sufficient capacity, infrastructure and
qualified staff, including competent teachers of computer science.
FF.A charter school may permit the use of school
property, including school buildings, grounds, buses and equipment, by any
person, group or organization for any lawful purpose, including a recreational,
educational, political, economic, artistic, moral, scientific, social,
religious or other civic or governmental purpose.The charter school
may charge a reasonable fee for the use of the school property.
GG.A charter school and its employees, including
the governing body, or chief administrative officer, are immune from civil
liability with respect to all decisions made and actions taken to allow the use
of school property, unless the charter school or its employees are guilty of
gross negligence or intentional misconduct.This subsection does not
limit any other immunity provisions that are prescribed by law.
HH.Sponsors authorized pursuant to this section
shall submit an annual report to the auditor general on or before October 1 of each year. The report shall
include:
1.The current number of charters authorized and the
number of schools operated by authorized charter holders.
2.The academic andoperational performance of
the sponsor's charter portfolio as measured by the sponsor's adopted
performance framework.
3.For the
prior year, the number of new charters approved, and
the number of charter schools closed and the reason for the closure in the prior year.
4.The sponsor's application, amendment, renewal and
revocation processes, charter contract template and current performance
framework as required by this section.
II.The auditor general shall prescribe the format
for the annual report required by subsection HH of this section and may require
that the annual report be submitted electronically. The auditor general shall
review the submitted annual reports to ensure that the reports include the
required items in subsection HH of this section and shall make the annual
reports available upon request.If the auditor general finds
significant noncompliance or a sponsor's
failure if a sponsor
fails to submit the annual report required by subsection HH of
this section, on or before December 31 of each year the auditor general shall
report to the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives and the chairs of the senate and house education committees
or their successor committees, and the legislature shall consider revoking the
sponsor's authority to sponsor charter schools. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Section 15-306,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.5.Section 15-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-341.General powers and duties; immunity; delegation
A.The governing board shall:
1.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures for
the governance of the schools, not inconsistent with law or rules prescribed by
the state board of education.
2.Exclude from schools all books, publications,
papers or audiovisual materials of a sectarian, partisan or denominational
character.This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the
elective course permitted by section 15717.01.
3.Manage and control the school property within its
district.
4.Acquire school furniture, apparatus, equipment,
library books and supplies for the use of the schools.
5.Prescribe the curricula and criteria for the
promotion and graduation of pupils as provided in sections 15701 and 15701.01.
6.Furnish, repair and insure, at full insurable
value, the school property of the district.
7.Construct school buildings on approval by a vote
of the district electors.
8.Make in the name of the district conveyances of
property belonging to the district and sold by the board.
9.Purchase school sites when authorized by a vote
of the district at an election conducted as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as the election provided in section 15481 and held on a date
prescribed in section 15491, subsection E, but such authorization shall
not necessarily specify the site to be purchased and such authorization shall
not be necessary to exchange unimproved property as provided in section 15342,
paragraph 23.
10.Construct, improve and furnish buildings used
for school purposes when such buildings or premises are leased from the
national park service.
11.Purchase school sites or construct, improve and
furnish school buildings from the proceeds of the sale of school property only
on approval by a vote of the district electors.
12.Hold pupils to strict account for disorderly
conduct on school property.
13.Discipline students for disorderly conduct on
the way to and from school.
14.Except as provided in section 151224,
deposit all monies received by the district as gifts, grants and devises with
the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits as designated in the uniform
system of financial records. If not inconsistent with the terms of the gifts,
grants and devises given, any balance remaining after expenditures for the intended
purpose of the monies have been made shall be used for reduction of school
district taxes for the budget year, except that in the case of accommodation
schools the county treasurer shall carry the balance forward for use by the
county school superintendent for accommodation schools for the budget year.
15.Provide that, if a parent or legal guardian
chooses not to accept a decision of the teacher as provided in section 15521, paragraph 4 paragraph 42 of this subsection,
the parent or legal guardian may request in writing that the governing board
review the teacher's decision. This paragraph shall not be construed to release school districts from
any liability relating to a child's promotion or retention.
16.Provide for adequate supervision over pupils in
instructional and noninstructional activities by certificated or
noncertificated personnel.
17.Use school monies received from the state and
county school apportionment exclusively for payment of salaries of teachers and
other employees and contingent expenses of the district.
18.Make an annual report to the county school
superintendent on or before October 1 in the manner and form and on the blanks
prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction or county school
superintendent. The board shall also make reports directly to the county
school superintendent or the superintendent of public instruction whenever
required.
19.Deposit all monies received by school districts
other than student activities monies or monies from auxiliary operations as
provided in sections 151125 and 151126 with the county treasurer
to the credit of the school district except as provided in paragraph 20 of this
subsection and sections 151223 and 151224, and the board shall
expend the monies as provided by law for other school funds.
20.Establish bank accounts in which the board
during a month may deposit miscellaneous monies received directly by the
district. The board shall remit monies deposited in the bank accounts at least
monthly to the county treasurer for deposit as provided in paragraph 19 of this
subsection and in accordance with the uniform system of financial records.
21.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against a teacher who engages in conduct that is a
violation of the policies of the governing board but that is not cause for
dismissal of the teacher or for revocation of the certificate of the
teacher.Disciplinary action may include suspension without pay for
a period of time not to exceed ten school days. Disciplinary action shall not
include suspension with pay or suspension without pay for a period of time
longer than ten school days. The procedures shall include notice, hearing and
appeal provisions for violations that are cause for disciplinary action. The
governing board may designate a person or persons to act on behalf of the board
on these matters.
22.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
for disciplinary action against an administrator who engages in conduct that is
a violation of the policies of the governing board regarding duties of
administrators but that is not cause for dismissal of the administrator or for
revocation of the certificate of the administrator. Disciplinary action may
include suspension without pay for a period of time not to exceed ten school
days. Disciplinary action shall not include suspension with pay or suspension
without pay for a period of time longer than ten school days.The
procedures shall include notice, hearing and appeal provisions for violations
that are cause for disciplinary action. The governing board may designate a
person or persons to act on behalf of the board on these
matters.For violations that are cause for dismissal, the provisions
of notice, hearing and appeal in chapter 5, article 3 of this title shall
apply. The filing of a timely request for a hearing suspends the imposition of
a suspension without pay or a dismissal pending completion of the hearing.
23.Notwithstanding sections 133108 and 133120,
prescribe and enforce policies and procedures that prohibit a person from
carrying or possessing a weapon on school grounds unless the person is a peace
officer or has obtained specific authorization from the school administrator.
24.Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures
relating to the health and safety of all pupils participating in district
sponsored practice sessions or games or other interscholastic athletic
activities, including:
(a)The provision of water.
(b)Guidelines, information and forms, developed in
consultation with a statewide private entity that supervises interscholastic
activities, to inform and educate coaches, pupils and parents of the dangers of
concussions and head injuries and the risks of continued participation in
athletic activity after a concussion. The policies and procedures shall
require that, before a pupil participates in an athletic activity, the pupil
and the pupil's parent must sign an information form at least once each school
year that states that the parent is aware of the nature and risk of
concussion. The policies and procedures shall require that a pupil who is
suspected of sustaining a concussion in a practice session, game or other
interscholastic athletic activity be immediately removed from the athletic
activity.A coach from the pupil's team or an official or a licensed
health care provider may remove a pupil from play.A team parent may
also remove the parent's own child from play. A pupil may return to play on
the same day if a health care provider rules out a suspected concussion at the
time the pupil is removed from play. On a subsequent day, the pupil may return
to play if the pupil has been evaluated by and received written clearance to
resume participation in athletic activity from a health care provider who has
been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions and head
injuries. A health care provider who is a volunteer and who provides clearance
to participate in athletic activity on the day of the suspected injury or on a
subsequent day is immune from civil liability with respect to all decisions
made and actions taken that are based on good faith implementation of the
requirements of this subdivision, except in cases of gross negligence or wanton
or wilful neglect. A school district, school district employee, team coach,
official or team volunteer or a parent or guardian of a team member is not
subject to civil liability for any act, omission or policy undertaken in good
faith to comply with the requirements of this subdivision or for a decision
made or an action taken by a health care provider.A group or
organization that uses property or facilities owned or operated by a school
district for athletic activities shall comply with the requirements of this
subdivision.A school district and its employees and volunteers are
not subject to civil liability for any other person or organization's failure
or alleged failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision. This
subdivision does not apply to teams that are based in another state and that
participate in an athletic activity in this state.For the purposes
of this subdivision, athletic activity does not include dance, rhythmic
gymnastics, competitions or exhibitions of academic skills or knowledge or
other similar forms of physical noncontact activities, civic activities or
academic activities, whether engaged in for the purposes of competition or
recreation. For the purposes of this subdivision, "health care
provider" means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13 or 17, an athletic trainer who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 41,
a nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15, and a
physician assistant who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 25.
25.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures regarding the smoking of tobacco within
school buildings. The policies and procedures shall be adopted in consultation
with school district personnel and members of the community and shall state
whether smoking is prohibited in school buildings. If smoking in school
buildings is not prohibited, the policies and procedures shall clearly state
the conditions and circumstances under which smoking is permitted, those areas
in a school building that may be designated as smoking areas and those areas in
a school building that may not be designated as smoking areas.
26.25.Establish an
assessment, data gathering and reporting system as prescribed in chapter 7,
article 3 of this title.
27.26.Provide special
education programs and related services pursuant to section 15764,
subsection A to all children with disabilities as defined in section 15761.
28.27.Administer
competency tests prescribed by the state board of education for the graduation
of pupils from high school.
29.28.Ensure that
insurance coverage is secured for all construction projects for purposes of
general liability, property damage and workers' compensation and secure
performance and payment bonds for all construction projects.
30.29.Keep on in the personnel file the resumes of all current and former employees
who provide instruction to pupils at a school.Resumes shall include an individual's
information about the employee's educational
and teaching background and experience in a particular academic content subject
area.A school district shall inform parents and guardians of the
availability of the resume
information and shall make the resume
information available for inspection on request of parents and guardians of
pupils enrolled at a school.This paragraph shall not be construed
to require any school to release personally identifiable information in
relation to any teacher or employee, including the teacher's or employee's
address, salary, social security number or telephone number.
31.30.Report to local
law enforcement agencies any suspected crime against a person or property that
is a serious offense as defined in section 13706 or that involves a
deadly weapon or dangerous instrument or serious physical injury and any
conduct that poses a threat of death or serious physical injury to employees,
students or anyone on the property of the school. This paragraph does not
limit or preclude the reporting by a school district or an employee of a school
district of suspected crimes other than those required to be reported by this
paragraph. For the purposes of this paragraph, "dangerous
instrument", "deadly weapon" and "serious physical
injury" have the same meanings prescribed in section 13105.
32.31.In conjunction
with local law enforcement agencies and local
medical facilities emergency
response AGENCIES, develop an emergency response plan for each
school in the school district in accordance with minimum standards developed
jointly by the department of education and the division of emergency management
within the department of emergency and military affairs.
33.32.Provide
written notice to the parents or guardians of all students affected enrolled in the school district at least ten days prior to
a public meeting to discuss closing a school within the school district.The
notice shall include the reasons for the proposed closure and the time and
place of the meeting.The governing board shall fix a time for a
public meeting on the proposed closure no less than ten days before voting in a
public meeting to close the school. The school district governing board shall
give notice of the time and place of the meeting.At the time and
place designated in the notice, the school district governing board shall hear
reasons for or against closing the school.The school district
governing board is exempt from this paragraph if it is determined by the
governing board that the school shall be closed because it poses a danger to
the health or safety of the pupils or employees of the school.A
governing board may consult with the school facilities board for technical
assistance and for information on the impact of closing a school. The
information provided from the school facilities board shall not require the
governing board to take or not take any action.
34.33.Incorporate
instruction on Native American history into appropriate existing curricula.
35.34.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures:
(a)Allowing pupils who have been diagnosed with
anaphylaxis by a health care provider licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
13, 14, 17 or 25 or by a registered nurse practitioner licensed and certified
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15 to carry and self-administer emergency
medications, including autoinjectable epinephrine, while at school and
at schoolsponsored activities. The pupil's name on the prescription
label on the medication container or on the medication device and annual
written documentation from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that
authorizes possession and self-administration is sufficient proof that the
pupil is entitled to the possession and selfadministration of the
medication. The policies shall require a pupil who uses auto-injectable
epinephrine while at school and at schoolsponsored activities to notify
the nurse or the designated school staff person of the use of the medication as
soon as practicable. A school district and its employees are immune from civil
liability with respect to all decisions made and actions taken that are based
on good faith implementation of the requirements of this subdivision, except in
cases of wanton or wilful neglect.
(b)For the emergency administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine by a trained employee of a school district pursuant to section 15157.
36.35.Allow
the possession and self-administration of prescription medication for breathing
disorders in handheld inhaler devices by pupils who have been prescribed that
medication by a health care professional licensed pursuant to title
32.The pupil's name on the prescription label on the medication
container or on the handheld inhaler device and annual written documentation
from the pupil's parent or guardian to the school that authorizes possession
and self-administration shall be sufficient proof that the pupil is entitled to
the possession and selfadministration of the medication.A
school district and its employees are immune from civil liability with respect
to all decisions made and actions taken that are based on a good faith
implementation of the requirements of this paragraph.
37.36.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from harassing,
intimidating and bullying other pupils on school grounds, on school property,
on school buses, at school bus stops, at schoolsponsored events and
activities and through the use of electronic technology or electronic
communication on school computers, networks, forums and mailing lists that
include the following components:
(a)A procedure for pupils, parents and school
district employees to confidentially report to school officials incidents of
harassment, intimidation or bullying.The school shall make
available written forms designed to provide a full and detailed description of
the incident and any other relevant information about the incident.
(b)A requirement that school district employees
report in writing suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying
to the appropriate school official and a description of appropriate
disciplinary procedures for employees who fail to report suspected incidents
that are known to the employee.
(c)A requirement that, at the beginning of each
school year, school officials provide all pupils with a written copy of the
rights, protections and support services available to a pupil who is an alleged
victim of an incident reported pursuant to this paragraph.
(d)If an incident is reported pursuant to this
paragraph, a requirement that school officials provide a pupil who is an
alleged victim of the incident with a written copy of the rights, protections
and support services available to that pupil.
(e)A formal process for the documentation of
reported incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying and for the
confidentiality, maintenance and disposition of this documentation. School
districts shall maintain documentation of all incidents reported pursuant to
this paragraph for at least six years. The school shall not use that
documentation to impose disciplinary action unless the appropriate school
official has investigated and determined that the reported incidents of harassment,
intimidation or bullying occurred. If a school provides documentation of
reported incidents to persons other than school officials or law enforcement,
all individually identifiable information shall be redacted.
(f)A formal process for the investigation by the
appropriate school officials of suspected incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying, including procedures for notifying the alleged victim on
completion and disposition of the investigation.
(g)Disciplinary procedures for pupils who have
admitted or been found to have committed incidents of harassment, intimidation
or bullying.
(h)A procedure that sets forth consequences for
submitting false reports of incidents of harassment, intimidation or bullying.
(i)Procedures designed to protect the health and
safety of pupils who are physically harmed as the result of incidents of
harassment, intimidation and bullying, including, if appropriate, procedures to
contact emergency medical services or law enforcement agencies, or both.
(j)Definitions of harassment, intimidation and
bullying.
38.37.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures regarding changing or adopting attendance
boundaries that include the following components:
(a)A procedure for holding public meetings to
discuss attendance boundary changes or adoptions that allows public comments.
(b)A procedure to notify the parents or guardians
of the students affected.
(c)A procedure to notify the residents of the
households affected by the attendance boundary changes.
(d)A process for placing public meeting notices and
proposed maps on the school district's website for public review, if the school
district maintains a website.
(e)A formal process for presenting the attendance
boundaries of the affected area in public meetings that allows public comments.
(f)A formal process for notifying the residents and
parents or guardians of the affected area as to the decision of the governing
board on the school district's website, if the school district maintains a
website.
(g)A formal process for updating attendance
boundaries on the school district's website within ninety days of an adopted
boundary change. The school district shall send a direct link to the school
district's attendance boundaries website to the department of real estate.
(h)If the
land that a school was built on was donated within the past five years, a
formal process to notify the entity that donated the land affected by the
decision of the governing board.
39.38.If the state
board of education determines that the school district has committed an
overexpenditure as defined in section 15107, provide a copy of the
fiscal management report submitted pursuant to section 15107, subsection
H on its website and make copies available to the public on request.The
school district shall comply with a request within five business days after
receipt.
40.39.Ensure that the
contract for the superintendent is structured in a manner in which up to twenty
per cent percent of the total annual salary included
for the superintendent in the contract is classified as performance pay. This
paragraph shall not be construed to require school districts to increase total
compensation for superintendents.Unless the school district
governing board votes to implement an alternative procedure at a public meeting
called for this purpose, the performance pay portion of the superintendent's
total annual compensation shall be determined as follows:
(a)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined based on
the percentage of academic gain determined by the department of education of
pupils who are enrolled in the school district compared to the academic gain
achieved by the highest ranking of the fifty largest school districts in this
state.For the purposes of this subdivision, the department of
education shall determine academic gain by the academic growth achieved by each
pupil who has been enrolled at the same school in a school district for at
least five consecutive months measured against that pupil's academic results in
the 20082009 school year.For the purposes of this
subdivision, of the fifty largest school districts in this state, the school
district with pupils who demonstrate the highest statewide percentage of
overall academic gain measured against academic results for the 20082009
school year shall be assigned a score of 100 and the school district with
pupils who demonstrate the lowest statewide percentage of overall academic gain
measured against academic results for the 20082009 school year shall be
assigned a score of 0.
(b)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of parents of pupils who are enrolled at the school district who
assign a letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of parental
satisfaction with the school district.The parental satisfaction
survey shall be administered and scored by an independent entity that is
selected by the governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and
experience to accurately measure the results of the survey. The parental
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each parent who participates in the
survey.The letter grade scale used on the parental satisfaction
survey shall direct parents to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(c)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by the
percentage of teachers who are employed at the school district and who assign a
letter grade of "A" to the school on a survey of teacher satisfaction
with the school.The teacher satisfaction survey shall be
administered and scored by an independent entity that is selected by the
governing board and that demonstrates sufficient expertise and experience to
accurately measure the results of the survey.The teacher
satisfaction survey shall use standard random sampling procedures and provide
anonymity and confidentiality to each teacher who participates in the survey.
The letter grade scale used on the teacher satisfaction survey shall direct
teachers to assign one of the following letter grades:
(i)A letter grade of "A" if the school
district is excellent.
(ii)A letter grade of "B" if the school
district is above average.
(iii)A letter grade of "C" if the school
district is average.
(iv)A letter grade of "D" if the school
district is below average.
(v)A letter grade of "F" if the school
district is a failure.
(d)Twentyfive per cent percent of the performance pay shall be determined by other
criteria selected by the governing board.
41.40.Maintain and
store permanent public records of the school district as required by law.
Notwithstanding section 39101, the standards adopted by the Arizona
state library, archives and public records for the maintenance and storage of
school district public records shall allow school districts to elect to satisfy
the requirements of this paragraph by maintaining and storing these records
either on paper or in an electronic format, or a combination of a paper and
electronic format.
42.41.Adopt in a
public meeting and implement by school year 20132014 policies for
principal evaluations.Before the adoption of principal evaluation
policies, the school district governing board shall provide opportunities for
public discussion on the proposed policies. The policies shall describe:
(a)The principal evaluation instrument, including
the four performance classifications adopted by the governing board pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 38.
(b)Alignment of professional development
opportunities to the principal evaluations.
(c)Incentives for principals in one of the two
highest performance classifications pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38, which may include:
(i)Multiyear contracts pursuant to section 15503.
(ii)Incentives to work at schools that are assigned
a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241.
(d)Transfer and contract processes for principals
designated in the lowest performance classification pursuant to section 15203,
subsection A, paragraph 38.
42.Prescribe
and enforce policies and procedures that define the duties of principals and
teachers.These policies and procedures shall authorize teachers to
take and maintain daily classroom attendance, make the decision to promote or
retain a pupil in a grade in common school or to pass or fail a pupil in a
course in high school, subject to review by the governing board in the manner
provided in section 15-342, paragraph 11.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraphs 7, 9 and
11 of this section, the county school superintendent may construct, improve and
furnish school buildings or purchase or sell school sites in the conduct of an
accommodation school.
C.If any school district acquires real or personal
property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the
governing board shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property
that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including penalties and
interest. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on
property acquired by a school district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other
delinquent tax liens.
D.The governing board may not locate a school on
property that is less than onefourth mile from agricultural land
regulated pursuant to section 3365, except that the owner of the agricultural
land may agree to comply with the buffer zone requirements of section 3365.If
the owner agrees in writing to comply with the buffer zone requirements and
records the agreement in the office of the county recorder as a restrictive
covenant running with the title to the land, the school district may locate a
school within the affected buffer zone. The agreement may include any
stipulations regarding the school, including conditions for future expansion of
the school and changes in the operational status of the school that will result
in a breach of the agreement.
E.A school district, its governing board members,
its school council members and its employees are immune from civil liability
for the consequences of adoption and implementation of policies and procedures
pursuant to subsection A of this section and section 15342. This waiver
does not apply if the school district, its governing board members, its school
council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
misconduct.
F.A governing board may delegate in writing to a
superintendent, principal or head teacher the authority to prescribe procedures
that are consistent with the governing board's policies.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title, a school district governing board shall not take any action that would
result in a reduction of pupil square footage unless the governing board
notifies the school facilities board established by section 152001 of
the proposed action and receives written approval from the school facilities
board to take the action.A reduction includes an increase in
administrative space that results in a reduction of pupil square footage or
sale of school sites or buildings, or both. A reduction includes a reconfiguration
of grades that results in a reduction of pupil square footage of any grade
level.This subsection does not apply to temporary reconfiguration
of grades to accommodate new school construction if the temporary
reconfiguration does not exceed one year.The sale of equipment that
results in a reduction that falls below the equipment requirements prescribed
in section 152011, subsection B is subject to commensurate withholding
of school district district additional assistance monies pursuant to the
direction of the school facilities board.Except as provided in
section 15342, paragraph 10, proceeds from the sale of school sites,
buildings or other equipment shall be deposited in the school plant fund as
provided in section 151102.
H.Subsections C through G of this section apply to
a county board of supervisors and a county school superintendent when operating
and administering an accommodation school. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Sections 15-349 and
15-353, Arizona
Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.7.Section 15-393, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-393.Joint technical education district governing board;
report; definitions
A.The management and
control of the joint district are vested in the joint technical education
district governing board, including the content and quality of the courses
offered by the district, the quality of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district, the salaries of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district and the reimbursement of other entities for the
facilities used by the district.Unless the governing boards of the
school districts participating in the formation of the joint district vote to
implement an alternative election system as provided in subsection B of this
section, the joint board shall consist of five members elected from five single
member districts formed within the joint district. The single member district
election system shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392 and shall be established in the plan as
follows:
1.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district shall
define the boundaries of the single member districts so that the single member
districts are as nearly equal in population as is practicable, except that if
the joint district lies in part in each of two or more counties, at least one
single member district may be entirely within each of the counties comprising
the joint district if this district design is consistent with the obligation to
equalize the population among single member districts.
2.The boundaries of each
single member district shall follow election precinct boundary lines, as far as
practicable, in order to avoid further segmentation of the precincts.
3.A person who is a
registered voter of this state and who is a resident of the single member
district is eligible for election to the office of joint board member from the
single member district. The terms of office of the members of the joint board
shall be as prescribed in section 15427, subsection B.An
employee of a joint technical education district or the spouse of an employee
shall not hold membership on a governing board of a joint technical education
district by which the employee is employed.A member of one school
district governing board or joint technical education district governing board
is ineligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to or serve
simultaneously as a member of any other governing board, except that a member
of a governing board may be a candidate for nomination or election for any
other governing board if the member is serving in the last year of a term of
office. A member of a governing board shall resign the member's seat on the
governing board before becoming a candidate for nomination or election to the
governing board of any other school district or joint technical education district,
unless the member of the governing board is serving in the last year of a term
of office.
4.Nominating petitions
shall be signed by the number of qualified electors of the single member
district as provided in section 16322.
B.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district may
vote to implement any other alternative election system for the election of
joint district board members.If an alternative election system is
selected, it shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392, and the implementation of the system shall be
as approved by the United States justice department.
C.The joint technical
education district shall be subject to the following provisions of this title:
1.Chapter 1, articles 1
through 6.
2.Sections 15208,
15210, 15213 and 15234.
3.Articles 2, 3 and 5 of
this chapter.
4.Section 15361.
5.Chapter 4, articles 1,
2 and 5.
6.Chapter 5, articles 1,
2 and 3.
7.Sections 15701.01,
15722, 15723, 15724, 15727, 15728, 15729
and 15730.
8.Chapter 7, article 5.
9.Chapter 8, articles 1,
3 and 4.
10.Sections 15828
and 15829.
11.Chapter 9, article 1,
article 6, except for section 15995, and article 7.
12.Sections 15941,
15943.01, 15948, 15952, 15953 and 15973.
13.Sections 151101
and 151104.
14.Chapter 10, articles
2, 3, 4 and 8.
D.Notwithstanding
subsection C of this section, the following apply to a joint technical
education district:
1.A joint district may
issue bonds for the purposes specified in section 151021 and in chapter
4, article 5 of this title to an amount in the aggregate, including the
existing indebtedness, not exceeding one percent of the taxable property used
for secondary tax purposes, as determined pursuant to title 42, chapter 15,
article 1, within the joint technical education district as ascertained by the
last property tax assessment previous to issuing the bonds.
2.The number of governing
board members for a joint district shall be as prescribed in subsection A of
this section.
3.The student count for
the first year of operation of a joint technical education district as provided
in this article shall be determined as follows:
(a)Determine the
estimated student count for joint district classes that will operate in the
first year of operation. This estimate shall be based on actual registration
of pupils as of March 30 scheduled to attend classes that will be operated by
the joint district. The student count for the district of residence of the
pupils registered at the joint district shall be adjusted. The adjustment
shall cause the district of residence to reduce the student count for the pupil
to reflect the courses to be taken at the joint district. The district of residence
shall review and approve the adjustment of its own student count as provided in
this subdivision before the pupils from the school district can be added to the
student count of the joint district.
(b)The student count for
the new joint district shall be the student count as determined in subdivision
(a) of this paragraph.
(c)For the first year of
operation, the joint district shall revise the student count to the actual
average daily membership as prescribed in section 15901, subsection A,
paragraph 1 for students attending classes in the joint district. A joint
district shall revise its student count, the base support level as provided in
section 15943.02, the revenue control limit as provided in section 15944.01
and the district additional assistance as provided in section 15962.01
prior to May 15. A joint district that overestimated its student count shall
revise its budget prior to May 15. A joint district that underestimated its
student count may revise its budget prior to May 15.
(d)After March 15 of the
first year of operation, the district of residence shall adjust its student
count by reducing it to reflect the courses actually taken at the joint
district. The district of residence shall revise its student count, the base
support level as provided in section 15943, the revenue control limit as
provided in section 15944 and the district additional assistance as
provided in section 15962.01 prior to May15.A district
that underestimated the student count for students attending the joint district
shall revise its budget prior to May 15.A district that
overestimated the student count for students attending the joint district may
revise its budget prior to May 15.
(e)A joint district for the first year of operation
shall not be eligible for adjustment pursuant to section 15948.
(f)The procedures for implementing this paragraph
shall be as prescribed in the uniform system of financial records.
(g)Pupils in an approved joint technical education district
centralized program may generate an average daily membership of 1.0 during any
day of the week and at any time between July 1 and June 30 of each fiscal year.
For the purposes of this paragraph,
"district of residence" means the district that included the pupil in
its average daily membership for the year before the first year of operation of
the joint district and that would have included the pupil in its student count
for the purposes of computing its base support level for the fiscal year of the
first year of operation of the joint district if the pupil had not enrolled in
the joint district.
4.A student includes any person enrolled in the
joint district without regard to the person's age or high school graduation
status, except that:
(a)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who enrolls in courses offered by the joint technical
education district shall not be included in the joint district's student count
or average daily membership.
(b)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who is enrolled in career and technical education courses
shall not be funded in whole or in part with monies provided by a joint
technical education district, except that a pupil in grade eight or nine may be
funded with monies generated by the five cent qualifying tax rate authorized in
subsection F of this section.
(c)A student who is over twentyone years of
age shall not be included in the student count of the joint district for the
purposes of chapter 9, articles 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
5.A joint district may operate for more than one
hundred eighty days per year, with expanded hours of service.
6.A joint district may use the carryforward
provisions of section 15943.01.
7.A school district that is part of a joint
district shall use any monies received pursuant to this article to supplement
and not supplant base year career and technical education courses, and directly
related equipment and facilities, except that a school district that is part of
a joint technical education district and that has used monies received pursuant
to this article to supplant career and technical education courses that were
offered before the first year that the school district participated in the
joint district or the first year that the school district used monies received
pursuant to this article or that used the monies for purposes other than for
career and technical education courses shall use one hundred percent of the
monies received pursuant to this article to supplement and not supplant base
year career and technical education courses.
8.A joint technical education district shall use
any monies received pursuant to this article to enhance and not supplant career
and technical education courses and directly related equipment and facilities.
9.A joint technical education district or a school
district that is part of a joint district or a charter school shall only
include pupils in grades ten through twelve in the calculation of student count
or average daily membership if the pupils are enrolled in courses that are
approved jointly by the governing board of the joint technical education
district and each participating school district or charter school for satellite
courses taught within the participating school district or charter school, or
approved solely by the joint technical education district for centrally located
courses. Student count and average daily membership from courses that are not
part of an approved program for career and technical education shall not be
included in student count and average daily membership of a joint technical
education district.
E.The joint board shall appoint a superintendent as
the executive officer of the joint district.
F.Taxes may be levied for the support of the joint
district as prescribed in chapter 9, article 6 of this title, except that a
joint technical education district shall not levy a property tax pursuant to
law that exceeds five cents per one hundred dollars assessed valuation except
for bond monies pursuant to subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section. Except
for the taxes levied pursuant to section 15994, such taxes shall be
obtained from a levy of taxes on the taxable property used for secondary tax
purposes.
G.The schools in the joint district are available
to all persons who reside in the joint district and to pupils whose district of
residence within this state is paying tuition on behalf of the pupils to a
district of attendance that is a member of the joint technical education
district, subject to the rules for admission prescribed by the joint board.
H.The joint board may collect tuition for adult
students and the attendance of pupils who are residents of school districts
that are not participating in the joint district pursuant to arrangements made
between the governing board of the district and the joint board.
I.The joint board may accept gifts, grants, federal
monies, tuition and other allocations of monies to erect, repair and equip
buildings and for the cost of operation of the schools of the joint district.
J.One member of the joint board shall be selected
chairman.The chairman shall be selected annually on a rotation
basis from among the participating school districts. The chairman of the joint
board shall be a voting member.
K.A joint board and a community college district may
enter into agreements for the provision of administrative, operational and
educational services and facilities.
L.Any agreement between the governing board of a
joint technical education district and another joint technical education
district, a school district, a charter school or a community college district
shall be in the form of an intergovernmental agreement or other written
contract.The auditor general shall modify the uniform system of
financial records and budget forms in accordance with this
subsection.The intergovernmental agreement or other written
contract shall completely and accurately specify each of the following:
1.The financial provisions of the intergovernmental
agreement or other written contract and the format for the billing of all
services.
2.The accountability provisions of the
intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
3.The responsibilities of each joint technical
education district, each school district, each charter school and each
community college district that is a party to the intergovernmental agreement
or other written contract.
4.The type of instruction that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract, including
individualized education programs pursuant to section 15763.
5.The quality of the instruction that will be
provided under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
6.The transportation services that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract and the manner
in which transportation costs will be paid.
7.The amount that the joint technical education
district will contribute to a course and the amount of support required by the
school district or the community college.
8.That the services provided by the joint technical
education district, the school district, the charter school or the community
college district be proportionally calculated in the cost of delivering the
service.
9.That the payment for services shall not exceed
the cost of the services provided.
M.On or
before December 31 of each year, each joint technical education district shall
submit a detailed report to the career and technical education division of the
department of education. The career and technical education division of the
department of education shall collect, summarize and analyze the data submitted
by the joint districts, shall submit an annual report that summarizes the data
submitted by the joint districts to the governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives, the president of the senate and the state board of education
and shall submit a copy of this report to the secretary of state. The data
submitted by each joint technical education district shall include the
following:
1.The average
daily membership of the joint district.
2.The program
listings and program descriptions of programs offered by the joint district,
including the course sequences for each program.
3.The costs
associated with each program offered by the joint district.
4.The completion
rate for each program offered by the joint district. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "completion rate" means the completion rate for students
who are designated as concentrators in that program by the department of
education under the career and technology approved plan.
5.The
graduation rate from the school district of residence of students who have
completed a program in the joint district.
6.A detailed
description of the career opportunities available to students after completion
of the program offered by the joint district.
7.A detailed
description of the career placement of students who have completed the program
offered by the joint district.
8.Any other
data deemed necessary by the department of education to carry out its duties
under this subsection.
N.M.If the career and
technical education division of the department of education determines that a
course does not meet the criteria for approval as a joint technical education
course, the governing board of the joint technical education district may
appeal this decision to the state board of education acting as the state board
of vocational education.
O.N.Notwithstanding
any other law, the average daily membership for a pupil who is enrolled in a
joint technical education course defined in section 15391 and who does
not meet the criteria specified in subsectionQ P
or R Q of this section shall be 0.25
for each course, except the sum of the average daily membership shall not
exceed the limits prescribed by subsection D, Q P
or R Qof this section, as applicable.
P.O.If a career and
technical education course or program is provided on a satellite campus, the
sum of the average daily membership, as provided in section 15901,
subsection A, paragraph 1, for that pupil in the school district or charter
school and joint technical education district shall not exceed 1.25. The
school district or charter school and the joint district shall determine the
apportionment of the average daily membership for that pupil between the school
district or charter school and the joint district.A pupil who
attends a course or program at a satellite campus and who is not enrolled in
the school district or charter school where the satellite campus is located may
generate the average daily membership pursuant to this subsection if the pupil
is enrolled in a school district that is a member district in the same joint
technical education district. 
Q.P.The sum of the
average daily membership of a pupil who is enrolled in both the school district
and joint technical education district course or program provided at a
community college pursuant to subsection K of this section or at a centralized
campus shall not exceed 1.75. The member school district and the joint
district shall determine the apportionment of the average daily membership and
student enrollment for that pupil between the member school district and the
joint district, except that the amount apportioned shall not exceed 1.0 for
either entity.Notwithstanding any other law, the average daily
membership for a pupil in grade ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a
course that meets for at least one hundred fifty minutes per class period at a
centralized campus shall be 0.75.To qualify for funding pursuant to
this subsection, a centralized campus shall offer programs and courses to all
eligible students in each member district of the joint technical education
district.
R.Q.The average daily
membership for a pupil in grade ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a
course that meets for at least one hundred fifty minutes per class period at a
leased centralized campus shall not exceed 0.75.The sum of the
average daily membership, as provided in section 15901, subsection A,
paragraph 1, of a pupil who is enrolled in both the school district and in
joint technical education district courses provided at a leased centralized
campus shall not exceed 1.75 if all of the following conditions are met:
1.The course qualifies as a joint technical
education course as defined in section 15-391.
2.The course is offered to all eligible students in
each member district of the joint technical education district and enrolls
students from multiple high schools.
3.The joint technical education district program in
which the course is included addresses a specific industry need and has been
developed in cooperation with that industry, or the leased facility is a state
or federal asset that would otherwise be unused or underutilized.
4.The lease is established at fair market value if
the lease is executed for a facility located on the site of a member district
and was approved by the joint committee on capital review, except that a lease
that was executed or renewed before December 31, 2012 is not subject to
approval by the joint committee on capital review. The requirement prescribed
in this paragraph does not apply from and after December 31, 2016.
S.R.A student who is
enrolled in an accommodation school as defined in section 15101 may be
treated as a student of the school district in which the student physically
resides for the purposes of enrollment in a joint technical education district
and shall be included in the calculation of average daily membership for either
the joint technical education district or the accommodation school, or both.
T.S.Notwithstanding
any other law, the student count for a joint technical education district shall
be equivalent to the joint technical education district's average daily
membership.
U.T.Beginning in
fiscal year 20162017, base support level funding that a school district
or charter school receives for a pupil who is enrolled in both a school
district or charter school and a joint technical education district satellite
campus program shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf percent
of the base support level funding that the school district or charter school
would otherwise receive for that pupil.
V.U.Beginning in fiscal year 20162017,
base support level funding that a joint technical education district receives
for a pupil who is enrolled in both a school district or charter school and a
joint technical education district shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf
percent of the base support level funding that the joint technical education
district would otherwise receive for that pupil.
W.V.A school district
may not prohibit or discourage students who are enrolled in that school
district from attending courses offered by a joint technical education
district.
X.W.Notwithstanding
subsection D, paragraph 7 of this section, a school district or charter school
that experiences a reduction in its base support level funding pursuant to
subsection U T of this section may use a
portion of joint technical education district monies that it receives pursuant
to this section in order to offset the loss of regular education funding that
it experiences pursuant to subsection U
T of this section. The
amount of joint technical education monies that the school district or charter
school may use to offset the loss of funding that it experiences pursuant to
subsection U T of this section may not
exceed the reduction in base support level funding that it experiences pursuant
to subsection U T of this section.
Y.X.The governing
board of the joint technical education district may contract with any charter
school that is located within the boundaries of the joint technical education
district to allow that charter school to offer career and technical education
courses or programs as a satellite campus.
Z.Y.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Base year" means the complete school
year in which voters of a school district elected to join a joint technical
education district.
2."Centralized campus" means a facility
that is owned and operated by a joint technical education district for the
purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint technical
education courses as defined in section 15391.
3."Lease" means a written agreement in
which the right of occupancy or use of real property is conveyed from one
person or entity to another person or entity for a specified period of time.
4."Leased centralized campus" means a
facility that is leased and operated by a joint technical education district
for the purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint
technical education courses as defined in section 15391.
5."Satellite campus" means a facility
that is owned or operated by a school district or charter school for the
purpose of offering joint technical education programs or joint technical
education courses as defined in section 15391. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Repeal
A.Section 15-505,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
B.Title 15, chapter 5, article 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.9.Section 15-903, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-903.Budget format; prohibited expenditures
A.The superintendent of public instruction in
conjunction with the auditor general shall prepare and prescribe a budget
format to be utilized by all school districts.
B.The budget format shall be designed to allow all
school districts to plan and provide in detail for the use of available
funds.The budget format shall contain distinct sections for, but
need not be limited to, maintenance and operation, debt service, special
projects, capital outlay, adjacent ways and classroom site fund.The
maintenance and operation section shall include, but need not be limited to,
separate subsections for regular education programs, special education programs
and operational expenditures for pupil transportation.Each
subsection shall clearly distinguish classroom instruction expenditures. The
special education program subsection shall include, but is not limited to, programs for each a subtotal for the disability classification classifications as defined in section 15761
and programs for gifted, vocational and technical education, remedial education
and bilingual students. The total expenditures for each of these programs
shall be included on the budget form. The pupil transportation subsection
shall include all operational expenditures relating to the transportation of
pupils, including all operational expenditures within a contract if the school
district contracts for pupil transportation.
C.The capital outlay section of the budget shall
include a subsection for unrestricted capital outlay.The
unrestricted capital outlay subsection shall include budgeted expenditures for
acquisitions by purchase, leasepurchase or lease of capital items as
defined in the uniform system of financial records and shall include:
1.Land, buildings and improvements to land and
buildings, including labor and related employee benefits costs and material
costs if work is performed by school district employees.
2.Furniture, furnishings, athletic equipment and
other equipment, including computer software.
3.Pupil and nonpupil transportation vehicles and
equipment, including all capital expenditures within a contract if the school
district contracts for pupil transportation.
4.Textbooks and related printed subject matter
materials adopted by the governing board.
5.Instructional aids.
6.Library books.
7.Payment of principal and interest on bonds.
8.School district administration emergency needs
that are directly related to pupils.
D.The budget format shall contain distinct
subsections for the following:
1.Special programs to improve academic achievement
of pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one through three as provided in
section 15482.
2.School plant
funds.
3.Capital outlay budget increases as provided in
section 15481.
4.Property taxation, including the following:
(a)The primary tax rates for the school district
for the current year and the budget year.
(b)The secondary tax rates for maintenance and
operation, K3 and capital overrides for the school district for the
current year and the budget year.
(c)The secondary tax rates for class A bonds for
the school district for the current year and the budget year.
(d)The secondary tax rates for class B bonds for
the school district for the current year and the budget year.
5.A description of any corrections or adjustments
made to the budget pursuant to section 15915.
E.The budget format shall also contain:
1.A statement identifying proposed pupilteacher
ratios and pupilstaff ratios relating to the provision of special
education services for the budget year.
2.A statement identifying the number of fulltime
equivalent certified employees.
F.The special projects section shall include
budgeted expenditures for state special projects, including special adult
projects, career education, deficiencies correction fund projects and new
school facilities fund projects, such federal special projects as ESEA title
programs, vocational education and title IV Indian education, and other special
projects.
G.A school district shall not make expenditures for
campaign literature associated with school district or charter school
officials.If the superintendent of public instruction determines
that a school district has violated this subsection, the superintendent of
public instruction may withhold any portion of the school district's
apportionment of state aid.
H.The budget format shall include an electronic
format that shall be submitted for each proposed, adopted and revised budget. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Subject to the requirements of article
IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 15-910, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-910.School district budgets; desegregation costs; tuition
costs for bond issues; costs for registering warrants; report
A.The
governing board may budget for the district's excess utility costs which are
specifically exempt from the district's revenue control limit. If approved by
the qualified electors voting at a statewide general election, the exemption
from the revenue control limit under this subsection expires at the end of the
20082009 budget year.The uniform system of financial records
shall specify expenditure items allowable as excess utility costs, which are
limited to direct operational costs of heating, cooling, water and electricity,
telephone communications and sanitation fees.The department of
education and the auditor general shall include in the maintenance and
operation section of the budget format, as provided in section 15903, a
separate line for utility expenditures and a special excess utility cost
category.The special excess utility cost category shall contain
budgeted expenditures for excess utility costs, determined as follows:
1.Determine
the lesser of the total budgeted or total actual utility expenditures for fiscal
year 19841985.
2.Multiply
the amount in paragraph 1 of this subsection by the total percentage increase
or decrease in the revenue control limit and the capital outlay revenue limit
for the budget year over the revenue control limit and the capital outlay
revenue limit for fiscal year 19841985 excluding monies available from a
career ladder program or a teacher compensation program provided for in section
15952.
3.The sum of
the amounts in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection is the amount budgeted in
the utility expenditure line.
4.Additional
expenditures for utilities are budgeted in the excess utility cost category.
B.The
governing board shall apply the same percentage increase or decrease allowed in
the revenue control limit and the capital outlay revenue limit as provided in
section 15905, subsection E or section 15948 to the utility
expenditure line of the budget.
C.The
governing board may expend from the excess utility cost category only after it
has expended for utility purposes the full amount budgeted in the utility
expenditure line of the budget.
D.The
governing board, after notice is given and a public meeting is held as provided
in section 15905, subsection D, may revise at any time before May 15 the
amount budgeted in the excess utility cost category for the current
year.Not later than May 18, the budget as revised shall be
submitted electronically to the superintendent of public instruction.
E.If the
revised excess utility cost category results in an expenditure of monies in
excess of school district revenues for the current year, the county school
superintendent shall include within the revenue estimate for the budget year
monies necessary to meet the liabilities incurred by the school district in the
current year in excess of revenues received for the current year.
F.If a school
district receives a refund of utility expenditures or a rebate on energy saving
devices or services, the refund or rebate shall be applied against utility
expenditures for the current year as a reduction of the expenditures, except
that the reduction of expenditures shall not exceed the amount of actual
utility expenditures.
G.A.The governing
board may budget for expenses of complying with or continuing to implement
activities which were required or permitted by a court order of desegregation
or administrative agreement with the United States department of education
office for civil rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial
discrimination which are specifically exempt in whole or in part from the
revenue control limit and district additional assistance. This exemption
applies only to expenses incurred for activities which are begun before the
termination of the court order or administrative agreement. If a district is levying
a primary property tax on February 23, 2006 and using those monies to
administer an English language learner program to remedy alleged or proven
discrimination under title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States
Code section 2000d), the district may spend those monies to remedy a violation
of the equal education act of 1974 (20 United States Code section
1703(f)).Nothing in this subsection allows a school district to
levy a primary property tax for violations of the equal education act of 1974
(20 United States Code section 1703(f)) in the absence of an alleged or proven
discrimination under title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States
Code section 2000d).
H.B.If a governing
board chooses to budget monies outside of the revenue control limit as provided
in subsection G A of this section, the
governing board may do one of the following:
1.Use monies from the maintenance and operation
fund equal to any excess desegregation or compliance expenses beyond the
revenue control limit before June 30 of the current year.
2.Notify the county school superintendent to
include the cost of the excess expenses in the county school superintendent's
estimate of the additional amount needed for the school district from the
primary property tax as provided in section 15991.
3.Employ the provisions of both paragraphs 1 and 2
of this subsection, provided that the total amount transferred and included in
the amount needed from property taxes does not exceed the total amount budgeted
as prescribed in subsection J D, paragraph 1 of this
section.
I.C.If a governing
board chooses to budget monies outside of district additional assistance as
provided in subsection G
A of this section, the
governing board may notify the county school superintendent to include the cost
of the excess expenses in the county school superintendent's estimate of the
additional amount needed for the school district from the primary property tax
as provided in section 15991.
J.D.A governing board
using subsections G, H and I
A, B and C of this
section:
1.Shall prepare and employ a separate maintenance
and operation desegregation budget and capital outlay desegregation budget on a
form prescribed by the superintendent of public instruction in conjunction with
the auditor general. The budget format shall be designed to allow a school
district to plan and provide in detail for expenditures to be incurred solely
as a result of compliance with or continuing to implement activities which were
required or permitted by a court order of desegregation or administrative
agreement with the United States department of education office for civil
rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination.
2.Shall prepare as a part of the annual financial
report a detailed report of expenditures incurred solely as a result of
compliance with or continuing to implement activities which were required or
permitted by a court order of desegregation or administrative agreement with
the United States department of education office for civil rights directed
toward remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination, in a format
prescribed by the auditor general in conjunction with the Arizona department of
education as provided by section 15904.
3.On or before July 15, 2006 and each year thereafter, shall collect and report data
regarding activities related to a court order of desegregation or an
administrative agreement with the United States department of education office
for civil rights directed toward remediating alleged or proven racial
discrimination in a format prescribed by the Arizona department of education.
The department shall compile and submit copies of the reports to the governor,
the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and
the chairpersons of the education committees of the senate and the house of
representatives. A school district that becomes subject to a new court order
of desegregation or a party to an administrative agreement with the United
States department of education office for civil rights directed toward
remediating alleged or proven racial discrimination shall submit these reports
on or before July 15 or within ninety days of the date of the court order or
administrative agreement, whichever occurs first. The Arizona department of
education, in consultation with the auditor general, shall develop reporting
requirements to ensure that school districts submit at least the following
information and documentation to the Arizona department of education beginning in fiscal year 20062007:
(a)A district-wide budget summary and a budget
summary on a school by school basis for each school in the school district that
lists the sources and uses of monies that are designated for desegregation
purposes.
(b)A detailed list of desegregation activities on a
district-wide basis and on a school by school basis for each school in the
school district.
(c)The date that the school district was determined
to be out of compliance with title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42
United States Code section 2000d) and the basis for that determination.
(d)The initial date that the school district began
to levy property taxes to provide funding for desegregation expenses and any
dates that these property tax levies were increased.
(e)If applicable, a current and accurate
description of all magnet type programs that are in operation pursuant to the
court order during the current school year on a district-wide basis and on a
school by school basis. This information shall contain the eligibility and
attendance criteria of each magnet type program, the capacity of each magnet
type program, the ethnic composition goals of each magnet type program, the
actual attending ethnic composition of each magnet type program and the specific
activities offered in each magnet type program.
(f)The number of pupils who participate in
desegregation activities on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district.
(g)A detailed summary of the academic achievement
of pupils on a district-wide basis and on a school by school basis for each
school in the school district.
(h)The number of employees, including teachers and
administrative personnel, on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district that is necessary to conduct
desegregation activities.
(i)The number of employees, including teachers and
administrative personnel, on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district and the number of employees at
school district administrative offices that are funded in whole or in part with
desegregation monies received pursuant to this section.
(j)The amount of monies that is not derived through
a primary or secondary property tax levy and that is budgeted and spent on
desegregation activities on a district-wide basis and on a school by school
basis for each school in the school district.
(k)Verification that the desegregation funding will
supplement and not supplant funding for other academic and extracurricular
activities.
(l)Verification that the desegregation funding is
educationally justifiable.
(m)Any documentation that supports the proposition
that the requested desegregation funding is intended to result in equal
education opportunities for all pupils in the school district.
(n)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used to promote systemic and organizational changes within the school
district.
(o)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used in accordance with the academic standards adopted by the state board of
education pursuant to sections 15701 and 15701.01.
(p)Verification that the desegregation funding will
be used to accomplish specific actions to remediate proven discrimination
pursuant to title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 (42 United States Code
section 2000d) as specified in the court order or administrative agreement.
(q)An evaluation by the school district of the
effectiveness of the school district's desegregation measures.
(r)An estimate of when the school district will be
in compliance with the court order or administrative agreement and a detailed
account of the steps that the school district will take to achieve compliance.
(s)Any other information that the department of
education deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this paragraph.
K.E.If a school
district governing board budgets for expenses of complying with a court order
of desegregation or an administrative agreement with the United States
department of education office for civil rights directed toward remediating
alleged or proven racial discrimination, the governing board shall ensure that
the desegregation expenses will:
1.Be educationally justifiable.
2.Result in equal education opportunities for all
pupils in the school district.
3.Be used to promote systemic and organizational
changes within the school district.
4.Be used in accordance with the academic standards
adopted by the state board of education pursuant to sections 15701 and
15701.01.
5.Be used to accomplish specific actions to
remediate proven discrimination pursuant to title VI of the civil rights act of
1964 (42 United States Code section 2000d) as specified in the court order or
administrative agreement.
6.Be used in accordance with a plan submitted to
the department of education that includes an estimate of the amount of monies
that will be required to bring the school district into compliance with the
court order or administrative agreement and an estimate of when the school
district will be in compliance with the court order or administrative
agreement.
7.Beginning
in fiscal year 20092010 and continuing each fiscal year thereafter,
Not exceed the amount budgeted by the school district for desegregation expenses
in fiscal year 20082009.
L.F.The governing
board may budget for the bond issues portion of the cost of tuition charged the
district as provided in section 15824 for the pupils attending school in
another school district, except that if the district is a common school
district not within a high school district, the district may only include that
part of tuition which is excluded from the revenue control limit and district
support level as provided in section 15951.The bond issues
portion of the cost of tuition charged is specifically exempt from the revenue
control limit of the school district of residence, and the primary property tax
rate set to fund this amount shall not be included in the computation of
additional state aid for education as provided in section 15972, except
as provided in section 15972, subsectionE. The department of
education and the auditor general shall include in the maintenance and
operation section of the budget format, as provided in section 15903, a
separate category for the bond issues portion of the cost of tuition.
M.G.The governing
board may budget for interest expenses it incurred for registering warrants
drawn against a fund of the school district or net interest expense on tax
anticipation notes as prescribed in section 35465.05, subsection C for
the fiscal year preceding the current year if the county treasurer pooled all
school district monies for investment as provided in section 15996 for
the fiscal year preceding the current year and, in those school districts that
receive state aid, the school districts applied for an apportionment of state
aid before the date set for the apportionment as provided in section 15973
for the fiscal year preceding the current year. The governing board may budget an
amount for interest expenses for registering warrants or issuing tax
anticipation notes equal to or less than the amount of the warrant interest
expense or net interest expense on tax anticipation notes as prescribed in
section 35465.05, subsection C for the fiscal year preceding the current
year as provided in this subsection which is specifically exempt from the
revenue control limit. For the purposes of this subsection, "state
aid" means state aid as determined in sections 15971 and 15972.
END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 15-1103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1103.Insurance proceeds fund; disposition of proceeds
A.Monies received for and derived from insurance
losses shall be deposited with the county treasurer who shall credit the
deposits to the insurance proceeds fund of the respective school
district.The insurance proceeds fund of a school district is a
continuing fund that is not
subject to reversion.
B.The governing board, or the superintendent or
chief administrative officer with the approval of the governing board, may
apply the proceeds from insurance recoveries to the payment of any outstanding
bonded indebtedness of the school district that is payable from the levy of
taxes on property within the school district.
C.The governing board, or the superintendent or
chief administrative officer with the approval of the governing board, may
apply the proceeds of insurance recoveries to construct, acquire, improve,
repair or furnish school property after
notice and a hearing. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 15-1107, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1107.Litigation recovery fund; disposition of proceeds
A.Monies received for and derived from settlement
of legal controversies or from recovery of costs, attorney fees or damages by a
school district in litigation by or against the school district shall be
deposited with the county treasurer who shall credit the deposits to the
litigation recovery fund of the school district.The litigation
recovery fund is a continuing fund which
that is not subject to
reversion.
B.If a school district receives monies as provided
in subsection A of this section for
the purpose of replacing or repairing school buildings or other school
property, the governing board, or the superintendent or chief administrative
officer with the approval of the governing board, may only apply the proceeds
to:
1.Pay any outstanding bonded indebtedness of the
school district which thAT is payable from the levy
of taxes on property within the school district.
2.Construct, acquire, improve, repair or furnish
school buildings after notice and
ahearing.
3.Replace or repair the school property other than
school buildings.
C.Except as provided in subsection B OF THIS SECTION, the governing
board, or the superintendent or chief administrative officer with the approval
of the governing board, may apply the proceeds of litigation recoveries to
procure legal services or for the costs of litigation. 
END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 15-910, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, is
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
of each house of the legislature.
Sec.14.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular session.

