







REFERENCE TITLE: homeowners' associations; enforcement
  grace period







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2106









Introduced by
Representative
  Lovas





AN ACT

amending sections
33-1242 and 33-1803, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to condominiums and
planned communities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1242, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1242.Powers of unit owners' association; notice to unit owner
of violation
A.Subject to the provisions of the declaration, the
association may:
1.Adopt and amend bylaws and rules.
2.Adopt and amend budgets for revenues,
expenditures and reserves and collect assessments for common expenses from unit
owners.
3.Hire and discharge managing agents and other
employees, agents and independent contractors.
4.Institute, defend or intervene in litigation or
administrative proceedings in its own name on behalf of itself or two or more
unit owners on matters affecting the condominium.
5.Make contracts and incur liabilities.
6.Regulate the use, maintenance, repair,
replacement and modification of common elements.
7.Cause additional improvements to be made as a
part of the common elements.
8.Acquire, hold, encumber and convey in its own
name any right, title or interest to real or personal property, except that
common elements may be conveyed or subjected to a security interest only
pursuant to section 331252.
9.Grant easements, leases, licenses and concessions
through or over the common elements.
10.Impose and receive any payments, fees or charges
for the use, rental or operation of the common elements other than limited
common elements described in section 331212, paragraphs 2 and 4 and for
services provided to unit owners.
11.Impose charges for late payment of assessments
and, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, impose reasonable monetary
penalties upon on unit owners for violations
of the declaration, bylaws and rules of the association.
12.Impose reasonable charges for the preparation
and recordation of amendments to the declaration or statements of unpaid assessments.
13.Provide for the indemnification of its officers
and executive board of directors and maintain directors' and officers'
liability insurance.
14.Assign its right to future income, including the
right to receive common expense assessments, but only to the extent the
declaration expressly provides.
15.Be a member of a master association or other
entity owning, maintaining or governing in any respect any portion of the
common elements or other property benefitting or related to the condominium or
the unit owners in any respect.
16.Exercise any other powers conferred by the
declaration or bylaws.
17.Exercise all other powers that may be exercised
in this state by legal entities of the same type as the association.
18.Exercise any other powers necessary and proper
for the governance and operation of the association.
B.A unit owner who receives a written notice that
the condition of the property owned by the unit owner is in violation of a
requirement of the condominium documents without regard to whether a monetary
penalty is imposed by the notice may provide the association with a written
response by sending the response by certified mail within ten thirty
business days after the date of the notice. The response shall
be sent to the address identified in the notice. 
C.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the unit owner, the association
shall respond to the unit owner with a written explanation regarding the notice
that shall provide at least the following information unless previously
provided in the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the condominium documents that
has allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the unit owner must follow to contest
the notice.
D.Unless the
information required in subsection C, paragraph 4 of this section is provided
in the notice of violation, the association shall not proceed with any
action to enforce the condominium documents, including the collection of
attorney fees, before, or during or within thirty days after the time
prescribed by subsection C of this section regarding the exchange of information
between the association and the unit owner. At any time before or after
completion of the exchange of information pursuant to this section, the unit
owner may petition for a hearing pursuant to section 412198.01 if the
dispute is within the jurisdiction of the department of fire, building and life
safety as prescribed in section 412198.01, subsection B. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-1803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1803.Assessment limitation; penalties; notice to member of
violation
A.Unless limitations in the community documents
would result in a lower limit for the assessment, the association shall not
impose a regular assessment that is more than twenty percent greater than the
immediately preceding fiscal year's assessment without the approval of the
majority of the members of the association. Unless reserved to the members of
the association, the board of directors may impose reasonable charges for the
late payment of assessments. A payment by a member is deemed late if it is
unpaid fifteen or more days after its due date, unless the community documents
provide for a longer period. Charges for the late payment of assessments are
limited to the greater of fifteen dollars or ten percent of the amount of the
unpaid assessment. Any monies paid by the member for an unpaid assessment
shall be applied first to the principal amount unpaid and then to the interest
accrued.
B.After notice and an opportunity to be heard, the
board of directors may impose reasonable monetary penalties on members for
violations of the declaration, bylaws and rules of the association.
Notwithstanding any provision in the community documents, the board of
directors shall not impose a charge for a late payment of a penalty that
exceeds the greater of fifteen dollars or ten percent of the amount of the
unpaid penalty.A payment is deemed late if it is unpaid fifteen or
more days after its due date, unless the declaration, bylaws or rules of the
association provide for a longer period. Any monies paid by a member for an
unpaid penalty shall be applied first to the principal amount unpaid and then
to the interest accrued.Notice pursuant to this subsection shall
include information pertaining to the manner in which the penalty shall be
enforced.
C.A member who receives a written notice that the
condition of the property owned by the member is in violation of the community
documents without regard to whether a monetary penalty is imposed by the notice
may provide the association with a written response by sending the response by
certified mail within ten thirty business days after the
date of the notice. The response shall be sent to the address identified in the
notice. 
D.Within ten business days after receipt of the
certified mail containing the response from the member, the association shall
respond to the member with a written explanation regarding the notice that
shall provide at least the following information unless previously provided in
the notice of violation:
1.The provision of the community documents that has
allegedly been violated.
2.The date of the violation or the date the
violation was observed.
3.The first and last name of the person or persons
who observed the violation.
4.The process the member must follow to contest the
notice.
E.Unless the
information required in subsection D, paragraph 4 of this section is provided
in the notice of violation, the association shall not proceed with any
action to enforce the community documents, including the collection of attorney
fees, before, or during or within thirty days after the time
prescribed by subsection D of this section regarding the exchange of
information between the association and the member. At any time before or
after completion of the exchange of information pursuant to this section, the
member may petition for a hearing pursuant to section 412198.01 if the
dispute is within the jurisdiction of the department of fire, building and life
safety as prescribed in section 412198.01, subsection B. END_STATUTE

