







REFERENCE TITLE: liquor; sampling; eligibility; square
  footage







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2182









Introduced by
Representative
  Shope





AN ACT

amending section
4206.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to liquor licenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 4-206.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-206.01.Bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses; number
permitted; fee; sampling privileges
A.The director shall determine the total number of
spirituous liquor licenses by type and in each county.The director
shall publish a listing of that information as determined by the director.
B.In each county, the director, each year, shall
issue additional bar, beer and wine bar or liquor store licenses at the rate of
one of each type for each additional ten thousand person increase over the
population in that county as of July 1, 2010.Any licenses that have
been revoked or reverted in any county after July 1, 2014 may be reissued by
the director in the county of their issuance.The director may waive
the issuance of any series of new, revoked or reverted licenses in a county for
one year where there has been no request made to the department for the
issuance of a new license of that series.For the purposes of this
subsection, the population of a county is deemed to be the population estimated
by the office of employment and population statistics within the Arizona
department of administration as of July 1 of each year.
C.A person issued a license authorized by
subsection B of this section shall pay an additional issuance fee equal to the
license's fair market value that shall be paid to the state general fund. The
fair market value shall be defined to mean the mean value of licenses of the
same type sold on the open market in the same county during the prior twelve
months, but if there are not three or more sales then the fair market value
shall be determined by two appraisals furnished to the department by
independent professional appraisers employed by the director.
D.The director shall employ professional appraisal
services to determine the fair market value of bar, beer and wine bar or liquor
store licenses.
E.If more than one person applies for an available
license, a priority of applicants shall be determined by a random selection
method prescribed by the director.
F.After January 1, 2011, bar licenses and beer and
wine bar licenses shall be issued and used only if the clear primary purpose
and actual primary use is for on-sale retailer privileges. The off-sale
privileges associated with a bar license and a beer and wine bar license shall
be limited to use, which is clearly auxiliary to the active primary on-sale
privilege. A bar license or a beer and wine bar license shall not be issued or
used if the associated off-sale use, by total retail spirituous liquor sales,
exceeds thirty per cent percent of the sales price of
on-sale spirituous liquors by the licensee at that location. For dual licenses
issued pursuant to a single site or where a second license is issued to a site
that already has a spirituous liquor license, other than settlement licenses
issued as provided by law, the applicant shall have the burden of establishing
that public convenience and the best interest of the community will be served
by the issuance of the license.
G.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a beer and wine bar license simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a beer and wine bar license and a beer
and wine store license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time.The holder of each license shall fully
comply with all applicable provisions of this title.A beer and wine
bar license and beer and wine store license on the same premises shall be owned
by and issued to the same licensee.
H.The director may issue a beer and wine bar
license to the holder of a liquor store license issued simultaneously at the
same premises.An applicant for a liquor store license and a beer
and wine bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both
licenses at the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with
all applicable provisions of this title. A liquor store license and a beer and
wine bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.
I.The director may issue a restaurant license to
the holder of a beer and wine bar license issued simultaneously at the same
premises.An applicant for a restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license may consolidate the application and may apply for both licenses at
the same time. The holder of each license shall fully comply with all
applicable provisions of this title. A restaurant license and a beer and wine
bar license on the same premises shall be owned by and issued to the same
licensee.The limitation set forth in subsection F of this section
with respect to the offsale privileges of the beer and wine bar licenses
shall be measured against the on-sales of beer and wine sales of the
establishment. For the purposes of compliance with section 4205.02,
subsection H, paragraph 2, it shall be conclusively presumed that all on
premises sales of spirituous liquors are made under the authority of the
restaurant license.
J.An applicant for a liquor store license or a beer
and wine store license and the licensee of a liquor store license or a beer and
wine store license may apply for sampling privileges associated with the
license.Beer and wine store
premises shall contain at least five thousand square feet in order to be
eligible for sampling privileges.A person desiring a
sampling privilege associated with a liquor store license shall apply to the
director on a form prescribed and furnished by the director. The application
for sampling privileges may be filed for an existing license or may be
submitted with an initial license application.The request for
sampling approval, the review of the application and the issuance of approval
shall be conducted under the same procedures for the issuance of a spirituous
liquor license prescribed in section 4201. After a sampling privilege
has been issued for a liquor store license or a beer and wine store license,
the sampling privilege shall be noted on the license itself and in the records
of the department.The sampling rights associated with a license are
not transferable.The director may charge a fee for processing the
application for sampling privileges and a renewal fee as provided in this
section. A city or town shall not charge any fee relating to the issuance or
renewal of a sampling privilege. Notwithstanding section 4244,
paragraph 19, a liquor store licensee or a beer and wine store licensee that
holds a license with sampling privileges may provide spirituous liquor sampling
subject to the following requirements:
1.Any open product shall be kept locked by the
licensee when the sampling area is not staffed.
2.The licensee is otherwise subject to all other
provisions of this title. The licensee is liable for any violation of this
title committed in connection with the sampling.
3.The licensed retailer shall make sales of sampled
products from the licensed retail premises.
4.The licensee shall not charge any customer for
the sampling of any products.
5.The sampling shall be conducted under the
supervision of an employee of a sponsoring distiller, vintner, brewer,
wholesaler or retail licensee.
6.Accurate records of sampling products dispensed
shall be retained by the licensee.
7.Sampling shall be limited to three ounces of beer
or coolertype products, one and one-half ounces of wine and one ounce of
distilled spirits per person, per brand, per day.
8.The sampling shall be conducted only on the
licensed premises.
K.If a beer and wine bar license and a beer and
wine store license are issued at the same premises, for the purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all spirituous beverages
purchased for sampling are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer
and wine bar license and all spirituous liquor sold off-sale are conclusively
presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store license.
L.The director may issue a beer and wine store
license to the holder of a bar license simultaneously at the same premises. An
applicant for a beer and wine store license and a bar license may consolidate
the application and may apply for both licenses at the same time. The holder
of each license shall fully comply with all applicable provisions of this
title. A beer and wine store license and a bar license on the same premises
shall be owned by and issued to the same licensee. If a beer and wine store
license and a bar license are issued at the same premises, for purposes of
reporting liquor purchases under each license, all off-sale beer and wine sales
are conclusively presumed to be purchased under the beer and wine store
license. END_STATUTE

