







REFERENCE TITLE: regional transportation authority;
  amendments 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2147









Introduced by
Representative
  Leach





AN ACT

amending sections
48-5308, 48-5309 and 48-5313, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to regional
transportation authorities.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-5308, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5308.Distribution from regional transportation fund
A.All monies in the bond account of the regional
transportation fund shall be held in trust for the owners of the
bonds.Monies in the bond account:
1.Shall be paid out to paying agents or directly to
the owners of the bonds pursuant to the resolution or resolutions of the board
authorizing the issuance of the bonds.
2.May be used to pay bond related expenses or
recurring expenses pertaining to administration and payment of the bonds.
B.Monies in the bond proceeds account of the
regional transportation fund may be obligated or spent as directed by the board
for the purposes provided by subsection C of this section.
C.Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, monies in the construction account of the regional transportation fund
shall be spent, pledged or accumulated for the design, rightofway
purchase, construction, operation, maintenance and contiguous open space
preservation purchase compatible with local environmental ordinance of, and
within the expenditure limits for, each element of the regional transportation
plan.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, from the monies
deposited in the construction account of the regional transportation fund in
each fiscal year, the board shall distribute:
1.To each municipality, excluding the municipality
that has the largest population in the county, the greater amount of one per cent percent of the revenues collected from the
transportation excise tax authorized pursuant to section 426106 or three
hundred thousand dollars, to be used for purposes consistent with subsection C
of this section.
2.An amount of not more than three hundred thousand dollars one percent of the revenues collected from the
transportation excise tax authorized PURSUANT to section 42-6106 to
the regional council of governments to hire professional planning, technical
and administrative staff required to accomplish plan development for the authority
pursuant to section 485309 and to perform the responsibilities as the
authority may require.
E.The three hundred thousand dollar distributions distribution prescribed by subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section are is subject to:
1.Proration for any fiscal year in which a
transportation excise tax authorized pursuant to section 426106 is
collected for less than a full fiscal year.
2.Adjustment by the annual percentage change for
the previous calendar year in the GDP price deflator, as defined in section 41563,
for each fiscal year after the first full fiscal year in which the
transportation excise tax is collected.
F.Beginning with the first fiscal year following
voter approval of the regional transportation plan, monies appropriated for
each of the following purposes, if approved by a majority of the qualified
electors voting at a special or general election, by each municipality or the
county in the authority shall not be less than the total amount of general
monies spent for those purposes in that municipality or county for fiscal year
20032004 adjusted by the annual percentage change for the previous
calendar year in the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563:
1.Roadway improvements, including controlled access
highways, parkways and controlled access arterials, arterial upgrades and
related grade separations.
2.Transit improvements for buses, including
expansion of the bus fleet and its associated maintenance facility, expansion
of express routes and associated connecting terminals, ridesharing, van pool
fleet acquisition, including special projects for persons with disabilities and
elderly individuals, and park and ride lots.
3.An express and light rail system.
4.Bicycle projects, including striped lanes on
arterials, neighborhood bike routes and planning of bikeways focused on major
regional activity center destinations.
5.Pedestrian projects on arterial and collector
streets, neighborhood walkways and walkways focused on major regional activity
center destinations. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 48-5309, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5309.Regional transportation plan; definitions
A.The authority shall develop a twenty year
regional transportation plan that is subject to approval by the qualified
electors of the county and financed by a transportation excise tax approved
pursuant to section 426106 and bonds issued pursuant to article 2 of
this chapter.The regional transportation plan:
1.May give priority to multimodal transportation
operations and improvements along corridors where seventyfive per cent percent or more of the adjacent census tracts
had a population density of at least three thousand persons per square mile
according to the most recent United States decennial census.
2.Shall include a public transportation component.
3.May, among other things:
(a)Define and identify regional transportation
corridors.
(b)Define the transportation problems, goals and
needs for each corridor.
(c)Determine environmental, economic, energy and
social policies to guide transportation investment decisions.
(d)Determine the impact of the plan on air quality,
with one of the goals of the plan being the improvement of air quality.
(e)Order the priority of regional transportation
corridors for development.
(f)Determine the mix of alternative transportation
modes appropriate for development consistent with the transportation goals and
needs for each corridor.The mix may include sidewalks, rail
service, buses, vans, paratransit, park and ride lots, bicycle
facilities and any other facility or service reasonably related to
transportation.
(g)Select appropriate public transportation
technology.
(h)Determine the capacity for exclusive public
transportation technologies.
(i)Determine operating performance criteria and
costs for public transportation systems.
(j)Locate routes and access points to the public
transportation systems.
(k)Determine the ridership of public transportation
systems.
(l)Determine the need for landscape buffers, noise
barriers, pedestrian bypasses, multiuse paths and other environmental impact
mitigation measures relating to the regional transportation plan.
B.The regional transportation plan may not be
amended to add or delete an element or substantially change an element without
prior approval of the electorate at a general or special election pursuant to
subsection D of this section.The prior approval of the electorate
required by this subsection is waived if a political subdivision causing
changes within its jurisdiction to the regional transportation plan incurs the
incremental costs of implementing the proposed changes.
C.The proposition for a revised regional
transportation plan considered at an election held pursuant to subsection D of
this section shall adhere to the format applicable to the ballot proposition
approved by the qualified electors voting on the initial regional
transportation plan.
D.If a substantial change occurs, the board of
directors shall request the county board of supervisors to provide a ballot
proposition for consideration of a revised regional transportation plan on or
before the date of the next general election. The board of supervisors
shall provide the proposition at the next general election.If a
majority of the qualified electors voting on the issue does not approve a
revised regional transportation plan, the
board of directors shall continue implementation of the previously approved
regional transportation plan and may continue to make expenditures
authorized pursuant to section 485308, subsection C, except those obligated as of the date of the general
election, are prohibited
but may not make expenditures in excess of revenues received pursuant to
section 48-5307, subsection A that are available for those purposes.
E.For the purposes of this section: ,

1."Present
worth" means the amount calculated by using The preceding fiveyear
average of the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 to
discount the respective series of estimated revenues and expenditures.
2."Substantial
change" means a change that, based on data in the transportation
improvement program developed pursuant to section 485304, paragraph 3, results
in one or more of the following conditions:
1.(a)A present worth of estimated
expenditures required to complete all elements of the regional transportation
plan that exceeds the greater of:
(i)The present worth
of estimated revenues available to the regional transportation fund during the
comparable period by ten per cent
percent or more.
(ii)The original ESTIMATED revenue
amount that was presented to the voters, except that estimated
revenues from bond proceeds, if any, shall not exceed the bond capacity, less
associated expenses, supported by estimates of unencumbered revenues for the
initial ten years of authorization for the transportation excise
tax.The preceding five year
average of the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 shall be
used to discount the respective series of estimated revenues and expenditures
to a present worth.
2.(b)An estimated cost to complete one
or more elements of the regional transportation plan that exceeds the
expenditure limitations of the plan as adjusted by the GDP price deflator as
defined in section 41563 by the following or greater percentages:
(a)(i)Ten per cent percent for a single element of the plan.
(b)(ii)Fifteen per cent percent for any two elements of the plan.
(c)(iii)Twenty per cent percent for three or more elements of the plan. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 48-5313, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5313.Eminent domain 
A.The
authority or the cities, and towns or and county
may:
1.exercise
the right of eminent domain pursuant to title 12, chapter 8, article 2 for the
purposes prescribed in this chapter on
behalf of the authority.
2.B.The cities, towns and county
may sell or lease to the authority property acquired through
eminent domain proceedings. END_STATUTE

