







REFERENCE TITLE: ASRS; political subdivision entities







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2157









Introduced by
Representative
  Ugenti-Rita





AN ACT

Amending section
38711, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the arizona state
retirement system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-711, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-711.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Active member" means a member as
defined in paragraph 23, subdivision (b) of this section who satisfies the
eligibility criteria prescribed in section 38727 and who is currently
making member contributions as prescribed in section 38736.
2."Actuarial equivalent" means equality
in value of the aggregate amounts expected to be received under two different
forms of payment, based on mortality and interest rate assumptions approved
from time to time by the board.
3."ASRS" means the Arizona state
retirement system established by this article.
4."Assets" means the resources of ASRS
including all cash, investments or securities.
5."Average monthly compensation" means:
(a)For a member whose membership in ASRS commenced
before January 1, 1984 and who left the member's contributions on deposit or
reinstated forfeited credited service pursuant to section 38742 for a
period of employment that commenced before January 1, 1984, the higher of
either:
(i)The monthly average of compensation that is
calculated pursuant to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(ii)The monthly average of compensation on which
contributions were remitted during a period of sixty consecutive months during
which the member receives the highest compensation within the last one hundred
twenty months of credited service. Any month for which no contributions are
reported to ASRS or that falls within a period of nonpaid or partially paid
leave of absence or sabbatical leave shall be excluded from the
computation.The sixty consecutive months may entirely precede, may
be both before and after or may be completely after any excluded months. If
the member was employed for less than sixty consecutive months, the average
monthly compensation is based on the total consecutive months
worked.Payments for accumulated vacation or annual leave, sick
leave, compensatory time or other forms of termination pay that, before August
12, 2005, constitute compensation for members whose membership in ASRS
commenced before January 1, 1984, do not cease to be included as compensation
if paid in the form of nonelective employer contributions under a 26 United
States Code section 403(b) plan if all payments of employer and employee
contributions are made at the time of termination. Contributions shall be made
to ASRS on these amounts pursuant to sections 38735, 38736 and 38737.
(b)For a member whose membership in ASRS commenced
on or after January 1, 1984 but before July 1, 2011, the monthly average of
compensation on which contributions were remitted during a period of thirtysix
consecutive months during which a member receives the highest compensation
within the last one hundred twenty months of credited service. Any month for
which no contributions are reported to ASRS or that falls within a period of
nonpaid or partially paid leave of absence or sabbatical leave shall be
excluded from the computation.The thirtysix consecutive
months may entirely precede, may be both before and after or may be completely
after any excluded months.If the member was employed for less than
thirtysix consecutive months, the average monthly compensation shall be
based on the total consecutive months worked.
(c)For a member whose membership in ASRS commenced
on or after July 1, 2011, the monthly average of compensation on which
contributions were remitted during a period of sixty consecutive months during
which a member receives the highest compensation within the last one hundred
twenty months of credited service. Any month for which no contributions are
reported to ASRS or that falls within a period of nonpaid or partially paid
leave of absence or sabbatical leave shall be excluded from the computation.The
sixty consecutive months may entirely precede, may be both before and after or
may be completely after any excluded months.If the member was
employed for less than sixty consecutive months, the average monthly compensation
shall be based on the total consecutive months worked.
6."Board" means the ASRS board
established in section 38713.
7."Compensation" means the gross amount
paid to a member by an employer as salary or wages, including amounts that are
subject to deferred compensation or tax shelter agreements, for services
rendered to or for an employer, or that would have been paid to the member
except for the member's election or a legal requirement that all or part of the
gross amount be used for other purposes, but does not include amounts paid in
excess of compensation limits established in section 38746.
Compensation includes amounts paid as salary or wages to a member by a second
employer if the member meets the requirements prescribed in paragraph 23,
subdivision (b) of this section with that second
employer.Compensation, as provided in paragraph 5, subdivision (b)
or (c) of this section, does not include:
(a)Lump sum payments, on termination of employment,
for accumulated vacation or annual leave, sick leave, compensatory time or any
other form of termination pay whether the payments are made in one payment or
by installments over a period of time.
(b)Damages, costs, attorney fees, interest or other
penalties paid pursuant to a court order or a compromise settlement or
agreement to satisfy a grievance or claim even though the amount of the payment
is based in whole or in part on previous salary or wage levels, except that, if
the court order or compromise settlement or agreement directs salary or wages
to be paid for a specific period of time, the payment is compensation for that
specific period of time. If the amount directed to be paid is less than the
actual salary or wages that would have been paid for the period if service had
been performed, the contributions for the period shall be based on the amount
of compensation that would have been paid if the service had been performed.
(c)Payment, at the member's option, in lieu of
fringe benefits that are normally paid for or provided by the employer.
(d)Merit awards pursuant to section 38613
and performance bonuses paid to assistant attorneys general pursuant to section
41192.
(e)Amounts that are paid as salary or wages to a
member for which employer contributions have not been paid.
8."Contingent annuitant" means the person
named by a member to receive retirement income payable following a member's
death after retirement as provided in section 38760.
9."Credited service" means, subject to
section 38739, the number of years standing to the member's credit on
the books of ASRS during which the member made the required contributions.
10."Current annual compensation" means
the greater of:
(a)Annualized compensation of the typical pay
period amount immediately before the date of a request to ASRS to purchase credited
service pursuant to section 38743, 38-744 or 38745. The typical
pay period amount shall be determined by taking the five pay periods
immediately before the date of a request, disregarding the highest and lowest
compensation amount pay periods and averaging the three remaining pay periods.
(b)Annualized compensation of the partial year,
disregarding the first compensation amount pay period, if the member has less
than twelve months total compensation on the date of a request to purchase
credited service pursuant to section 38743, 38744 or 38745.
(c)The sum of the twelve months of compensation
immediately before the date of a request to ASRS to purchase credited service
pursuant to section 38743, 38744 or 38745.
(d)The sum of the thirtysix months of
compensation immediately before the date of a request to ASRS to purchase
credited service pursuant to section 38743, 38744 or 38745
divided by three.
(e)If the member has retired one or more times from
ASRS, the average monthly compensation that was used for calculating the
member's last pension benefit times twelve.
11."Early retirement" means retirement
before a member's normal retirement date after five years of total credited
service and attainment of age fifty.
12."Effective date" means July 1, 1970,
except with respect to employers and members whose contributions to ASRS
commence thereafter, the effective date of their membership in ASRS is as
specified in the applicable joinder agreement.
13."Employer" means:
(a)This state.
(b)Participating political subdivisions.
(c)Participating political subdivision entities.
14."Employer contributions" means all
amounts paid into ASRS by an employer on behalf of a member.
15."Fiscal year" means the period from
July 1 of any year to June 30 of the following year.
16."Inactive member" means a member who
previously made contributions to ASRS and who satisfies each of the following:
(a)Has not retired.
(b)Is not eligible for active membership in ASRS.
(c)Is not currently making contributions to ASRS.
(d)Has not withdrawn contributions from ASRS.
17."Interest" means the assumed actuarial
investment earnings rate approved by the board.
18."Internal revenue code" means the
United States internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
19."Investment manager" means the
persons, companies, banks, insurance company investment funds, mutual fund
companies, management or any combinations of those entities that are appointed
by ASRS and that have responsibility and authority for investment of the monies
of ASRS.
20."Late retirement" means retirement
after normal retirement.
21."Leave of absence" means any unpaid
leave authorized by the employer, including leaves authorized for sickness or
disability or to pursue education or training.
22."Life annuity" means equal monthly
installments payable during the member's lifetime after retirement.
23."Member":
(a)Means any employee of an employer on the
effective date.
(b)Means all employees of an employer who are
eligible for membership pursuant to section 38727 and who are engaged to
work at least twenty weeks in each fiscal year and at least twenty hours each
week.
(c)Means any person receiving a benefit under ASRS.
(d)Means any person who is a former active member
of ASRS and who has not withdrawn contributions from ASRS pursuant to section
38740.
(e)Does not include any employee of an employer who
is otherwise eligible pursuant to this article and who begins service in a
limited appointment for not more than eighteen months on or after July 1,
1979. If the employment exceeds eighteen months, the employee shall be covered
by ASRS as of the beginning of the nineteenth month of employment. In order to
be excluded under this subdivision, classifications of employees designated by
employers as limited appointments must be approved by the director.
(f)Does not include any leased employee. For the
purposes of section 414(n) of the internal revenue code, "leased
employee" means an individual who:
(i)Is not otherwise an employee of an employer.
(ii)Pursuant to a leasing agreement between the
employer and another person, performs services for the employer on a
substantially fulltime basis for at least one year.
(iii)Performs services under the primary direction
or control of the employer.
(g)Does not include any employee of
a political subdivision entity who is hired on or after the effective date of
this amendment to this section.
24."Member contributions" means all
amounts paid to ASRS by a member.
25."Normal costs" means the sum of the
individual normal costs for all active members for each fiscal year. The
normal cost for an individual active member is the cost that is assigned to the
fiscal year, through June 29, 2016, using the projected unit credit method and,
beginning June 30, 2016, using the actuarial cost method determined by the
board pursuant to section 38714.
26."Normal retirement age" means the age
at which a member reaches the member's normal retirement date.
27."Normal retirement date" means the earliest
of the following:
(a)For a member whose membership commenced before
July 1, 2011:
(i)A member's sixtyfifth birthday.
(ii)A member's sixtysecond birthday and
completion of at least ten years of credited service.
(iii)The first day that the sum of a member's age
and years of total credited service equals eighty.
(b)For a member whose membership commenced on or
after July 1, 2011:
(i)A member's sixtyfifth birthday.
(ii)A member's sixtysecond birthday and
completion of at least ten years of credited service.
(iii)A member's sixtieth birthday and completion of
at least twentyfive years of credited service.
(iv)A member's fiftyfifth birthday and
completion of at least thirty years of credited service.
28."Political subdivision" means any
political subdivision of this state and includes a political subdivision
entity.
29."Political subdivision entity" means
an entity:
(a)That is located in this state.
(b)That is created in whole or in part by political
subdivisions, including instrumentalities of political subdivisions.
(c)Where a majority of the membership of the entity
is composed of political subdivisions.
(d)Whose primary purpose is the performance of a
government related service.
30."Retired member" means a member who is
receiving retirement benefits pursuant to this article.
31."Service year" means fiscal year,
except that:
(a)If the normal
work year required of a member is less than the full fiscal year but is for a
period of at least nine months, the service year is the normal work year.
(b)For a salaried member employed on a contract
basis under one contract, or two or more consecutive contracts, for a total
period of at least nine months, the service year is the total period of the
contract or consecutive contracts.
(c)In determining average monthly compensation
pursuant to paragraph 5 of this section, the service year is considered to be
twelve months of compensation.
32."State" means this state, including
any department, office, board, commission, agency, institution or other
instrumentality of this state.
33."Vested" means that a member is
eligible to receive a future retirement benefit. END_STATUTE

