







REFERENCE TITLE: municipalities; counties; energy use;
  reporting 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2130









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

Repealing section
9500.36, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 9, chapter 4, article
8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section 9500.36; repealing
section 11269.14, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 11, chapter
2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section 11269.14;
relating to energy usage reporting.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 9-500.36,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 9, chapter 4, article 8, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 9-500.36, to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.36.Prohibition on requirement of energy measuring and
reporting; state preemption; legislative findings 
A.A city or
town may not require an owner, operator or tenant of a business, commercial
building or multifamily housing property to measure and report energy usage and
consumption, including energy consumption benchmarking and building facility
energy efficiency audits.
B.The
regulation of an owner, operator or tenant of a business, commercial building
or multifamily housing property relating to measuring and reporting energy
usage and consumption is a matter of statewide concern.The
regulation of measuring and reporting energy usage and consumption by an owner,
operator or tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing
property pursuant to this section are not subject to further regulation by a
city or town.
C.The
legislature finds that small businesses are particularly sensitive to costs and
expenses incurred in complying with regulatory actions of a city or town. The
legislature further finds that inconsistent regulation by cities and towns hinders
a small business from benefiting from free and open competition. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 11-269.14,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Title 11, chapter 2, article 4, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 11-269.14, to read:
START_STATUTE11-269.14.Prohibition on requirement of energy measuring and
reporting; state preemption; legislative findings
A.A county
may not require an owner, operator or tenant of a business, commercial building
or multifamily housing property to measure and report energy usage and
consumption, including energy consumption benchmarking and building facility
energy efficiency audits.
B.The
regulation of an owner, operator or tenant of a business, commercial building
or multifamily housing property relating to measuring and reporting energy
usage and consumption is a matter of statewide concern. The regulation of
measuring and reporting energy usage and consumption by an owner, operator or
tenant of a business, commercial building or multifamily housing property
pursuant to this section are not subject to further regulation by a county.
C.The
legislature finds that small businesses are particularly sensitive to costs and
expenses incurred in complying with regulatory actions of a
county.The legislature further finds that inconsistent regulation
by counties hinders a small business from benefiting from free and open competition.
END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective unless House Bill ____,
fiftysecond legislature, second regular session, relating to the
regulation of auxiliary containers, becomes law.

