







REFERENCE TITLE: weights and measures; omnibus








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2171









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





AN ACT

Amending section
3-102, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 244, section
3; amending sections 3105, 3615, 33401, 33412, 33414,
33415, 33416 and 33417, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
title 3, chapter 19, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
3-3419; amending sections 33431, 33433, 33434, 3-3436, 33437,
33451, 33452, 33453, 33454, 33473, 33475
and 33476, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 33491,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 244, section 2;
providing for renumbering; amending sections 33491, 3-3492, 33493,
3-3494 and 33498, Arizona Revised Statutes, as renumbered by this act;
amending sections 33512, 33514, 289501, 289502, 289503,
289521, 289523, 289524, 289525 and 411092.02,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending laws 2014, chapter 132, section 11; relating
to weights and measures.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 3-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 244, section 3, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-102.Department organization
A.The Arizona department of agriculture is
established consisting of the following divisions:
1.The animal services division, which is
responsible for milk, dairy, livestock and aquaculture regulation, the state
veterinarian, meat, poultry and egg inspection and performing the
administrative functions authorized or contracted pursuant to law for the Arizona
beef council.
2.The plant services division, which is responsible
for the fruit and vegetable standardization program and entomological services.
3.The environmental services division, which is
responsible for regulating seed, feed and agricultural chemicals, including
pesticides and fertilizers, and for native plant protection.
4.The weights and measures services division, which
is responsible for the inspection, testing and licensing of commercial weighing, and measuring and counting devices.
B.The following are established in addition to and
separate from the divisions of the department:
1.A state agricultural laboratory.
2.An office of agriculture safety.
3.An office of inspections.
4.An office of commodity development and promotion.
C.The department shall have a central
administrative service office providing:
1.Data processing, accounting and budgeting,
records management, publications, property control and personnel services and
training.
2.A program to crosstrain appropriate
personnel to enable them to perform similar functions or comparable work for
different administrative units in the department. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-105.Division councils
A.The director may appoint a division council
within any division of the department, and shall appoint an animal services
division council and a weights and
measures services division council, consisting of representatives
of the various industries and commodities regulated by that division those divisions.Any such
organization may request representation on the respective division council, but the actual
appointments to the division council are at the discretion of the director.
B.Members shall serve two-year terms of office which that are staggered among the
members.Members of division councils serve without compensation but
are eligible for reimbursement for travel and other expenses as provided by
law.Each division council shall select a chairman and vicechairman
from among its members.Division councils are public bodies for
purposes of title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1.The
Each division council shall assist and make recommendations to
the associate director of the division regarding the administration and
implementation of the various programs within the division.The
associate director shall make a written response to the division council within
fifteen days to each formal recommendation made by the council. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-615, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-615.Milk holding tanks; structural requirements; measuring
device
A.A milk holding tank shall be so designed,
constructed and installed as to withstand ordinary usage and permit accurate
measurement of the fluid contents thereof, and shall be so maintained by the owner.
The tanks shall be so designed, constructed, installed and maintained that
complete delivery of the contents may be made through delivery faucets or
valves.Each tank shall be plainly marked by die stamping in letters
or numerals that are not
less than onefourth inch in height showing the approved calibrated
capacity to the nearest gallon, and shall be equipped with a means by which the
calibration level may be readily determined.The shell, bulkheads
and supporting framework shall be so constructed that they will not become
distorted under any condition of liquid lading, and means shall be provided for
the sealing of adjustable parts in such a
manner as to prevent the removal or changing of position without
destroying or mutilating the seal. Each milk holding tank shall be equipped
with a measuring device approved by the state inspector of the weights and measures services division of the department.
B.It shall be unlawful to alter or tamper with a
milk holding tank or any part thereof in such a way as to give an inaccurate
measurement of the fluid contents thereof. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 3-3401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Area
A" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49541.
2."Area
B" has the same meaning prescribed in section 49541.
3."Area
C" means that portion of Pinal county lying west of range 11 east,
excluding that portion of the county lying within area a as defined in section
49541 and that portion of the county within the jurisdiction of any
Indian tribe, band, group or community that is recognized by the United States
secretary of the interior and that exercises governmental authority within the
limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States
government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rightsofway
running through the reservation.
1.4."Associate
director" means the associate director of the division.
2.5."Biodiesel"
means a diesel fuel substitute that is
produced from nonpetroleum renewable resources as defined by the United States
environmental protection agency and that meets the registration requirements
for fuels and fuel additives established by the United States environmental
protection agency pursuant to section 211 of the clean air act, as defined in
section 49401.01
mono-alkyl ester that meets ASTM D6751.
3.6."Biodiesel
blend" means a motor fuel that is composed of biodiesel and diesel fuel
and that is designated by the letter "B", followed by the numeric
value of the volume percentage of biodiesel in the blend.
4.7."Biofuel"
means a solid, liquid or gaseous fuel that is derived from biomass and that can
be used directly for heating or power or as a blend component in motor fuel.
5.8."Biofuel
blend" means a motor fuel that is composed of a biofuel, that is combined
with a petroleum based petroleum-based fuel and that
is designated by the volume percentage of biofuel in the blend.
6.9."Biomass"
means biological material, such as plant or animal matter, excluding organic
material that has been transformed by geological processes into substances such
as coal or petroleum or derivatives thereof, that may be transformed into
biofuel.
10."Biomassbased
diesel" means a diesel fuel substitute produced from nonpetroleum
renewable resources that meets the registration requirements for fuels and fuel
additives established by the United States environmental protection agency
under 42 United States Code 7545 and includes fuel derived from animal wastes,
including poultry wastes and other waste materials, municipal solid waste and
sludge and oil derived from wastewater and the treatment of wastewater.
Biomassbased diesel does not include biodiesel.
11.Biomassbased
diesel blend" means a blend of petroleumbased diesel fuel with
biomassbased diesel.
7.12."Certification"
means the process of determining the accuracy of a commercial device to the
standards of this state by a registered service representative or the department division.
8.13."Commercial
device" means any weighing, measuring, metering or counting device that is
used to determine the direct cost of things sold or offered or exposed for
sale, or used to establish a fee for service if the cost is based on weight,
measure or count, except that it does not include those devices used for inhouse
packaging, inventory control or law enforcement purposes.
9.14."Commodity"
means any merchandise, product or substance produced or distributed for sale to
or use by others.
10.15."Correct"
as used in connection with weights and measures means conformance to all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
11.16."Diesel
fuel" means a refined middle distillate that is used as a fuel in a
compressionignition internal combustion engine and that meets the
specifications of ASTM D975.
12.17."Division"
means the weights and measures services division of the department.
13.18."E85" "Ethanol flex fuel" means a fuel
ethanol gasoline blend that meets the specifications of ASTM D5798 standard specification for ethanol fuel
blends for flexible-fuel automotive spark-ignition engines.
19."Fleet
owner" means a registered owner or lessee of at least twentyfive
vehicles.
20."Gasoline"
means a volatile, highly flammable liquid mixture of hydrocarbons that does not
contain more than five onehundredths grams of lead for each United
States gallon, that is produced, refined, manufactured, blended, distilled or
compounded from petroleum, natural gas, oil, shale oils or coal and other
flammable liquids free from undissolved water, sediment or suspended matter,
with or without additives, and that is commonly used as a fuel for
spark-ignition internal combustion engines.Gasoline does not
include diesel fuel or ethanol flex fuel.
21."Gasoline
provider" means any manufacturer of gasoline or any person who imports
gasoline into a vehicle emissions control area by means of a pipeline or in
truckload quantities for the person's own use within the vehicle emissions
control area or any person who sells gasoline intended for ultimate consumption
within a vehicle emissions control area. Gasoline provider does not mean a
person with respect to a gasoline supplied or sold by the person to another
person for resale to a retailer within a vehicle emissions control area or to a
fleet owner for consumption within a vehicle emissions control area.
14.22."Inspector"
means a state official of the division.
15.23."Liquid fuel measuring device" means
any meter, pump, tank, gauge or apparatus used for volumetrically determining
the quantity of any internal combustion engine fuel, liquefied petroleum gas or
low viscosity heating oil.
24."Manufacturer's
proving ground" means a facility whose sole purpose is to develop complete
advanced vehicles for an automotive manufacturer.
16.25."Misfuel"
means the act of dispensing into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle a motor fuel
that was not intended to be used in the engine of that motor vehicle.
17.26."Motor
fuel" means a petroleum or a petroleumbased substance that is motor
gasoline, aviation gasoline, number one or number two diesel fuel or any grade
of oxygenated gasoline typically used in the operation of a motor engine,
including biodiesel blends, biofuel blends and the ethanol blend E85 as defined in ASTM D5798 ethanol flex fuels.
27."Motor
vehicle racing event" means a race that uses unlicensed vehicles designed
and manufactured specifically for racing purposes and that is conducted on a
public or private racecourse for the entertainment of the general
public.Motor vehicle racing event includes practice, qualifying and
demonstration laps conducted as part of the activities related to a motor
vehicle race.
28."Oxygenate"
means any oxygencontaining ashless, organic compound, including
aliphatic alcohols and aliphatic ethers, that may be used as a fuel or as a
gasoline blending component and that is approved as a blending agent under the
provisions of a waiver issued by the United States environmental protection
agency pursuant to 42 United States Code section 7545(f).
29."Oxygenated
fuel" means an unleaded motor fuel blend that consists primarily of gasoline
and at least one and onehalf percent by weight of one or more oxygenates
and that has been blended consistent with the provisions of a waiver issued by
the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to 42 United States
Code section 7545(f).
18.30."Package"
means any commodity enclosed in a container or wrapped in any manner in advance
of sale in units suitable for either wholesale or retail trade.
19.31."Person"
means both the plural and the singular, as the case demands, and includes
individuals, partnerships, corporations, companies, societies and associations.
32."Product
transfer document" means any bill of lading, loading ticket, manifest,
delivery receipt, invoice or other documentation used on any occasion when a
person transfers custody or title of motor fuel other than when motor fuel is
sold or dispensed at a service station or fleet vehicle fueling facility.
20.33."Public
weighmaster" means any person who is engaged in any of the following:
(a)The business of weighing any object or thing for
the public generally for hire or for internal use and issuing for that weighing
a weight certificate intended to be accepted as an accurate weight upon on which a purchase or sale is to be based or
on which a service fee is to be charged.
(b)The business of weighing for hire forhire motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers and
issuing weight certificates intended to be accepted as an accurate weight for
the purpose of determining the amount of any tax, fee or other assessment on
the vehicles.
21.34."Reference
standards" means the physical standards of the state that serve as the
legal reference from which all other standards and weights and measures are
derived.
22.35."Registered
service agency" means any agency, firm, company or corporation that for
hire, award, commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services,
repairs or reconditions a commercial device or tests or repairs vapor recovery
systems or vapor recovery components and that has been issued a license by the
division.
23.36."Registered
service representative" means any individual who for hire, award,
commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services, repairs or
reconditions a commercial device or tests or repairs vapor recovery systems or
vapor recovery components and who has been issued a license by the division.
24.37."Retail
seller" means a person whose business purpose is to sell, expose or offer
for sale or use any package or commodity by weight, measure or count.
25.38."Secondary
standards" means the physical standards that are traceable to the
reference standards through comparisons, using acceptable laboratory
procedures, and that are used in the enforcement of weights and measures laws
and rules.
39."Supplier"
means any person that imports gasoline into a vehicle emissions control area by
means of a pipeline or in truckload quantities for the person's own use within
the vehicle emissions control area or any person that sells gasoline intended
for ultimate consumption within a vehicle emissions control area, except that
supplier does not mean a person with respect to gasoline supplied or sold by
the person to another for resale to a retailer within a vehicle emissions
control area or to a fleet owner for consumption within a vehicle emissions
control area.
40."Vehicle
emissions control area" means a county with a population of one million
two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in
area A, or any portion of area B or C, except that such an area does not
include a manufacturer's proving ground that is located in the vehicle
emissions control area.
26.41."Weight"
as used in connection with any commodity means net weight.
27.42."Weights"
or "measures", or both, means all weights, measures, meters or
counters of every kind, instruments and devices for weighing, measuring,
metering or counting and any appliance and accessories associated with any or
all such instruments and devices. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 3-3412, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3412.Physical standards
Weights and measures that are traceable to the United States
prototype standards supplied by the federal government, or approved as being
satisfactory by the national institute of standards and technology, shall be
the state reference standards of weights and measures, and shall be maintained in such
calibration as prescribed by the national institute of standards and
technology.All secondary standards may be prescribed by the associate director and shall be
verified upon their on initial receipt and as often
thereafter as deemed necessary by the associate
director. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 3-3414, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3414.Powers and duties; definition
A.The division shall:
1.Maintain custody of the state reference standards
of weights and measures that are traceable to the United States prototype
standards and that are supplied to the states by the federal government or that
are otherwise approved as being satisfactory by the national institute of standards
and technology.
2.Keep the state reference standards in a safe and
suitable place in the metrology laboratory of the division and ensure that they
shall are not be
removed from the laboratory except for repairs or for calibration as may be
prescribed by the national institute of standards and technology.
3.Keep accurate records of all standards and
equipment.
4.Adopt any rules necessary to carry out this
chapter and adopt reasonable rules for the enforcement of this chapter. These
rules have the force and effect of law and shall be adopted pursuant to title
41, chapter 6. In adopting these rules, the associate director shall consider,
as far as is practicable, the requirements established by other states and by
authority of the United States, except that rules shall not be made in conflict
with this chapter.
5.Publish rules adopted pursuant to this chapter
and issue appropriate copies at no cost to all new applicants for licensure and
certification. Updated copies of the rules shall be distributed, on request,
at no cost to the public.
6.Investigate complaints made to the division
concerning violations of this chapter and, on its own initiative, conduct
investigations it deems appropriate to develop information relating to
prevailing procedures in commercial quantity determination and relating to
possible violations of this chapter, and
in order to educate the public and
regulated persons to encourage and promote the general objective
of accuracy in the determination and representation of quantity in commercial
transactions.
7.Establish labeling standards, establish standards
of weight, measure or count and establish reasonable standards of fill for any
packaged commodity, and may establish standards for open dating information.
8.Grant, pursuant to this chapter, exemptions from
the licensing provisions of this chapter for weighing and measuring
instruments, standards or devices when the ownership or use of the instrument
or device is limited to federal, state or local government agencies in the
performance of official functions.On request, the division may
conduct inspections of instruments, standards or devices and shall charge a fee
pursuant to section 33452.
9.Delegate to appropriate personnel any of the
responsibilities of the associate director for the proper administration of
this chapter.
10.Inspect and test weights and measures that are kept, offered or
exposed for sale.
11.Inspect and test, to ascertain if they are
correct, weights and measures commercially used either:
(a)In determining the weight, measure or count of
commodities or things sold, or offered or exposed for sale, on the basis of
weight, measure or count.
(b)In computing the basic charge or payment for
services rendered on the basis of weight, measure or count.
12.Test, at random, commodities, weights and
measures used in public institutions for which monies are appropriated by the
legislature.The testing of commodities, weights and measures in
public institutions shall include
includes items:
(a)That have historically been of short weight,
measure or count.
(b)That
have been found to be of short weight, measure or count by other
jurisdictions.
(c)That are
to be tested as part of a regional or national survey.
13.Test, approve for use and affix a seal of
approval for use of on all weights, measures and
commercial devices manufactured in or brought into this state as it finds to be
correct and shall reject and mark as rejected weights, measures and devices it
finds to be incorrect. Weights, measures and devices that have been rejected
may be seized by the division if not corrected within the time specified or if
used or disposed of in a manner not specifically authorized. The division
shall condemn and may seize weights, measures and devices that are found to be
incorrect and that are not capable of being made correct.
14.Sample and test motor fuel that is stored, sold
or exposed or offered for sale or that is stored for use by a fleet owner to
determine whether the motor fuel meets the standards for motor fuel set forth
in section 33433 and article 6 of this chapter and in any rule adopted
by the associate director pursuant to this chapter.For the purposes of this paragraph, "fleet owner"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 33491.
15.Randomly witness tests on all mandated vapor
recovery systems that are installed or operated in this state and, if the systems are determined
to be in compliance with the law,
approve those systems for use and reject, mark as rejected and stop the use of
those systems that are determined
not to be in compliance with the law.
16.Inspect facilities at which motor fuel is
stored, sold or exposed or offered for sale to determine whether dispensing
devices are properly labeled.
17.Publish and distribute to consumers and regulated persons weighing
and measuring information.
18.Weigh, measure or inspect commodities that are kept, offered or
exposed for sale, sold or in the process of delivery to determine whether they
contain the amounts represented and whether they are kept, offered or exposed
for sale in accordance with this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this
chapter. In carrying out this section, the associate director shall employ
recognized sampling procedures, such as are designated in appropriate national
institute of standards and technology handbooks and supplements to those
handbooks, except as modified or rejected by rule.
19.Allow reasonable variations from the stated
quantity of contents only after a commodity has entered intrastate commerce.These
variations shall include those caused by loss or gain of moisture during the
course of good distribution practice or by unavoidable deviations in good
manufacturing practice.
20.Prescribe the standards of weight and measure
and additional equipment methods of test and inspection to be employed in the
enforcement of this chapter.The associate director may prescribe or
provide the official test and inspection forms to be used in the enforcement of
this chapter.
21.Apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
a temporary or permanent injunction restraining any person from violating this
chapter.
22.Report to the governor on or before August 1 of
each year and at such other times as may be required on the work accomplished
under this chapter.
23.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4,
employ such personnel as needed to assist in administering this chapter.
24.Ensure that any information that is required to
be filed with the department division, that relates to the
contents of motor fuels that are sold in this state and that is a trade secret
as defined in section 49201 is not disclosed.
25.Establish by rule labeling standards for tanks
and containers of motor fuels.
B.The associate director may provide for the
periodic examination and inspection of metering devices, including devices used
to measure usage of electricity, natural gas or water by a consumer.
Examination and inspection authority shall not apply to metering devices owned
by federal, state or local government agencies unless requested by the
government agency that owns the metering devices.
C.The associate director may establish standards
for the presentation of costperunit information. This subsection
does not mandate the use of costperunit information in connection
with the sale of any standard packed commodity.
D.The associate director, when necessary to carry
out this chapter, may adopt and enforce rules relating to quality standards for
motor fuel, kerosene, oil, except used oil fuel, and hazardous waste fuel,
lubricating oils, lubricants, antifreeze and other liquid or gaseous
fuels.The associate director shall adopt rules to ensure that
oxygenated fuels, as described in article 6 of this chapter, that are stored,
used, sold or exposed or offered for use or sale are blended and stored, sold,
exposed or offered in such a manner as to ensure that the oxygenated fuels are
properly blended, that they meet the standards set forth in section 33433
and article6 of this chapter, and in rules adopted pursuant to this
chapter, and that dispensers at which the oxygenated fuels are dispensed are
labeled as defined by rule of the division in such a manner as to notify
persons of the type of oxygenated fuel being dispensed and the maximum
percentage of oxygenate by volume contained in the oxygenated
fuel.The associate director of the division shall consult with the
director of the department of environmental quality in adopting rules pursuant
to this subsection.
E.Testing and inspection conducted pursuant to this
chapter shall be done, to the extent practicable, without prior notice, by a
random systematic method determined by the associate director or in response to
a complaint by the public. The testing and inspection may be done by private
persons and firms pursuant to contracts entered into by the associate director
in accordance with title 41, chapter 23 or by a registered service agency or
registered service representative licensed pursuant to section 33454.The
associate director shall establish qualifications of persons and firms for
selection for purposes of this subsection. The persons or firms conducting the
testing and inspection shall immediately report to the division any violations
of this chapter and incorrect weights, measures, devices, vapor recovery
systems or vapor recovery components for investigation and enforcement by the department division.A person or firm that
tests or inspects a weight, measure, device, vapor recovery system or vapor
recovery component that is rejected shall not correct the defect causing the
rejection without the permission of the division.
F.During the course of an investigation or an
enforcement action by the division, information regarding the complainant is
confidential and is exempt from title 39, chapter 1, unless the complainant
authorizes the information to be public.
G.For the purposes of the labeling requirements
prescribed in this section, "oxygenated fuel" means a motor fuel
blend containing 1.5 percent or more by weight of oxygen. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 3-3415, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3415.Enforcement powers of the associate director, agents and
inspectors
A.When necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter and rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, the associate director or the associate director's agents and inspectors
shall:
1.Enter any commercial, nonprofit business or
governmental premises during normal operating hours, except that if the
premises are not open to the public, the associate director or the associate director's agents and inspectors
shall first present their credentials.
2.Issue stopuse, hold and removal orders
with respect to any weights and measures commercially used, stopsale,
hold and removal orders with respect to any commodities, bulk commodities or
motor fuel kept, offered or exposed for sale, stopuse and hold orders
with respect to a vapor recovery system or parts of a vapor recovery system and
stopuse, stopsale, hold and removal orders with respect to any
motor fuel found to be in violation of this chapter or rules adopted pursuant
to this chapter.
3.Seize for use as evidence, without formal
warrant, any incorrect or unapproved weight, measure, package or commodity
found to be used, retained, offered or exposed for sale or sold in violation of
this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
4.Stop any commercial vehicle upon on
reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle contains evidence of
a violation of this chapter and, after presentment of the director's credentials of the associate director or the associate director's agent's agents or inspector's credentials inspectors, inspect the contents, require
that the person in charge of the vehicle produce any documents in the person's
possession concerning the contents and require the person to proceed with the
vehicle to some specified place for inspection.
B.With respect to the enforcement of this chapter,
the associate director or
the associate director's
agents or inspectors may issue a
warning requiring corrective action or a citation to any
violators of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of section 133903.
C.The associate
director or the associate
director's agents or inspectors may apply for a special
inspection warrant for inspection of real or personal property for the purpose
of enforcement of this chapter.The special inspection warrant shall
be issued as provided in section 49433. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 3-3416, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3416.State metrology laboratory; operation; standards; testing
A.The associate
director shall establish and operate within the department division the state metrology laboratory.
B.A commercial device shall not be approved for use
in the state unless the design and construction comply with national institute
of standards and technology requirements.
C.All commercial devices approved and certified
shall meet the tolerance, design and construction requirements prescribed by
the national institute of standards and technology.
D.All commercial devices that are determined unfit for approval shall
be rejected without testing.
E.All weights, weight sets, measures, meters,
counters or other devices that are used
by registered service representatives shall show an indication of the approval
date and jurisdiction issuing the approval.
F.All persons who install, service or repair
commercial devices in this state shall submit the test equipment used to the department's division's metrology laboratory for approval
at least annually.A certificate of approval that specifically
identifies the test equipment and that is issued by another state laboratory
may be accepted in lieu of submitting equipment if the other state laboratory
is certified by the national institute of standards and technology.
G.All weights, measures, meters, counters or other
devices shall be tested in the order they are scheduled in the laboratory
unless arrangements for testing have been made in advance.
H.Work that
is completed in the metrology laboratory shall be paid for
pursuant to the fees prescribed in the rules of the department division. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 3-3417, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3417.Fees to state general fund
The associate director
shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all fees
collected in the state general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Title 3, chapter 19, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 3-3419, to read:
START_STATUTE3-3419.Consultation and training program; inspection training
program
The associate director
may Develop and implement the following training programs:
1.A
consultation and training program for entities regulated under this chapter
that uses onsite visits, training and educational materials, and
informational presentations to provide training and advice on interpreting,
applying and complying, including alternative methods of complying, with the
statutes, rules, regulations, standards or other matters relating to compliance
with this chapter.
2.An
inspection training program for division inspectors and employees to ensure
that all inspections and tests provided for in this chapter are conducted in a
consistent manner to the extent practicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 3-3431, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3431.Sale of commodities
A.A person shall not sell or offer or expose for
sale less than the quantity the person represents.
B.As a buyer, a person shall not take any more than
the quantity the person represents when the person furnishes the weight or
measure by means of which the quantity is determined.
C.A person shall not misrepresent the price of any
commodity or service sold or offered, exposed or advertised for sale by weight,
measure or count or represent the price in any manner calculated or tending to
mislead or in any way deceive a person.
D.Except as otherwise provided by the associate
director, commodities in liquid form shall be sold by liquid measure or by
weight, and commodities not in liquid form shall be sold only by weight, by
measure or by count, as long as the method of sale provides accurate quantity
information.
E.If the quantity is determined by the seller, bulk
sales shall be accompanied by a delivery ticket containing the following
information unless exempted by rule:
1.The name and address of the vendor and purchaser.
2.The date delivered.
3.The quantity delivered and the quantity on which
the price is based, if this differs from the delivered quantity.
4.The identity in the most descriptive terms
commercially practicable, including any quality representation made in
connection with the sale.
5.The count of individually wrapped packages, if
more than one.
F.Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or
by rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, any package kept for the purpose of
sale or offered or exposed for sale shall bear on the outside of the package a
definite, plain and conspicuous declaration of:
1.The identity of the commodity in the package,
unless the commodity can easily be identified through the wrapper or container.
2.The quantity of contents in terms of weight,
measure or count.
3.The name and place of business of the
manufacturer, packer or distributor, in the case of any package kept, offered
or exposed for sale or sold in any place other than on the premises where
packed.
4.The price, except as provided in subsections L, and M and
N of this section.
G.In addition to the declarations required by
subsection F of this section, any package being one of a lot containing random
weights of the same commodity and bearing the total selling price of the
package shall bear on the outside of the package a plain and conspicuous
declaration of the price per single unit of weight.
H.If a packaged commodity is advertised in any
manner with the retail price stated, there shall be closely and conspicuously
associated with the retail price a declaration of quantity as is required by
law or rule to appear on the package.If a dual declaration is required,
only the declaration that sets forth the quantity in terms of the smaller unit
of weight or measure need appear in the advertisement.
I.The packager of a short weighted item offered for
sale is liable under this chapter.
J.If a retail seller engaging in the sale of motor
fuel posts the selling price of the fuel on the premises, the seller shall post
the selling price only by the price per gallon, except that if the fuel is
dispensed by a measure other than whole gallons the seller shall represent the
selling price for each unit of such other measure on the individual pump or
other dispensing device.If a retail seller engaging in the sale of
motor fuel advertises the price of the fuel off the premises, the retail seller
shall advertise the price only by the price per gallon.
K.The owner or operator of a motor fuel dispensing
site shall ensure that a sticker provided by the department of transportation
that is three inches by five inches and that depicts the amount of federal and
state taxes imposed on one gallon of gasoline is displayed on one side of each
motor fuel dispenser.The sticker required by this subsection shall
contain white lettering on a black background or black lettering on a white
background to ensure a contrasting color to the motor fuel dispenser and shall
be placed on the upper sixty percent of the dispenser. The division shall use
stickers provided by the department of transportation. A template of the
sticker shall be placed on the division's website for use by retailers. During the course of its normal random
inspections, the division shall apply the stickers with a compliance schedule
of four years after July 29, 2010.
L.Instead of each package bearing the price as
required under subsection F, paragraph 4 of this section, the seller may post
the price of the package on the shelf or may display the
price at or near the
point of display of the product.
M.Instead
of each package bearing the price as required under subsection F, paragraph 4
of this section, if the package is available for sale only with the assistance
of a salesperson, the seller may display the package at a service counter
staffed by the salesperson.
M.N.Instead of each package bearing
the price as required under subsection F, paragraph 4 of this section,
if the package is offered for sale at a price reduced by a percentage or a
fixed amount from a previously offered price or at a reduced price for the purchase of multiple items,
the reduction shall be displayed at the point of display of the package or near the point of display of the package in
the manner required by this section.
N.O.On the request of
a consumer, a retail seller shall provide:
1.A means of recording prices such as grease
pencils, felt markers, scanners or other similar instruments for recording the
price.
2.A written statement of the retail seller's
policies regarding errors in pricing. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 3-3433, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3433.Standards for motor fuel; exceptions
A.Except as provided in section 33434 and
subsections C, D, E, F, G,
and K and L of this section, a retail seller or fleet
owner shall not store, sell or expose or offer for sale any motor fuel,
kerosene, oil or other liquid or gaseous fuel or lubricating oil, lubricant,
mixtures of lubricants or other similar products if the product fails to meet
the standards specified in this section and in the rules adopted by the associate
director.
B.A person shall not misrepresent the nature,
origination, quality, grade or identity of any product specified in subsection
A of this section or represent the nature, origination, quality, grade or
identity of such product in any manner calculated or tending to mislead or in
any way deceive. This subsection does not prohibit product origination
disclaimer labeling on the retail dispenser.
C.After consultation with the director of the
department of environmental quality, the standards and test methods for motor
fuels shall be established by the associate director of the division by rule.
D.Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is
supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the
fueling of motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two
hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area
A as defined in section 49541
shall be 9.0 pounds per square inch from and after September 30 through March
31 of each year.Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's
proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event as defined by section 33491 is exempt
from this subsection.
E.From and after September 30 through March 31 of
each year, a person shall not supply or sell gasoline that exceeds the ASTM
D4814 class A vapor pressure/distillation class ten volume percent evaporated
distillation temperature.
F.Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is
supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the
fueling of motor vehicles in a county with a population of one million two
hundred thousand persons or more and any portion of a county contained in area
A as defined in section 49541
shall be 7.0 pounds per square inch from and after May 31 through September 30
of each year.Fuel used in motor vehicles at a manufacturer's
proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event as defined by section 33491 is exempt
from this subsection.
G.Exclusively for the purposes of transportation
conformity and only if the administrator of the United States environmental
protection agency fails to approve the applicable plan required pursuant to
section 49406, maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is supplied or
sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of
motor vehicles in area B as defined in
section 49541 shall be ten pounds per square inch from and
after September 30 through March 31 of each year.Fuel used in motor
vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing event as defined by section 33491
is exempt from this subsection.
H.Notwithstanding subsections D, F and G of this
section, the associate director of the division in consultation with the
director of the department of environmental quality shall approve alternate
fuel control measures that are submitted by manufacturers or suppliers of gasoline providers and that the director
and the associate director determine will result in either of the following:
1.Motor vehicle carbon monoxide emissions that are
equal to or less than emissions that result under compliance with subsection D
of this section and section 33493 33492.In
making this determination, the associate director of the division and the
director of the department of environmental quality shall compare the emissions
of the alternate fuel control measure with the emissions of a fuel with a
maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by this section and with the
minimum oxygen content or percentage by volume of ethanol as prescribed by section
33493 33492.
2.Motor vehicle nonmethane hydrocarbon
emissions that are equal to or less than the emissions that result under
compliance with subsection F of this section.In making this
determination, the associate director of the division and the director of the
department of environmental quality shall compare the motor vehicle nonmethane
hydrocarbon emissions of the alternate fuel control measure with the motor
vehicle nonmethane hydrocarbon emissions of a fuel that complies with
the maximum vapor pressure standard as prescribed by subsection F of this
section.
I.Any alternate fuel control measures that are
approved shall not increase emissions of nonmethane hydrocarbons,
particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen.Alternate fuel
control measures approved pursuant to subsection H of this section and this
subsection may be used by any manufacturer
or supplier of gasoline provider
unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty
days before the first day of a gasoline control period.Manufacturers and suppliers who Gasoline providers that use an
approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan
to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a
gasoline control period.
J.A person shall not sell or offer or expose for
sale diesel fuel grade 1, 2 or 4 as defined in ASTM D975, biodiesel, biodiesel blends or biomass-based diesel or
biomass-based diesel blends that contains contain sulfur in excess of:
1.For low sulfur
diesel fuel, five hundred parts per million by weight for use in area A as
defined in section 49541.
2.For ultra
low sulfur diesel fuel, the amount that conforms with 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 80.520(a)(1) fifteen parts per million. Locomotive and marine diesel
fuel is exempt from this requirement if the fuel meets the requirements of 40
Code of Federal Regulations section 80.513(g) and (h).
K.A person
shall not sell or offer or expose for sale diesel fuel, biodiesel or biodiesel
blends that contain sulfur in excess of five hundred parts per million for use
in area A as defined in section 49541.
L.K.A person shall
label dispensers at which biodiesel,
or biodiesel blends, biomass-based diesel or biomass-based
diesel blends are dispensed in conformance with 16 Code of
Federal Regulations part 306 and 40 Code
of Federal Regulations sections 80.570, 80.571, 80.572, 80.573 and 80.574.
This section does not preclude a person from labeling a dispenser that
dispenses diesel fuel that contains up to five percent biodiesel or biomass-based diesel with a
label that states "may contain up to five percent biodiesel" or "may contain up to five percent
biomass-based diesel".
M.L.For biodiesel
blends that contain more than five percent by volume of biodiesel, a person
shall prepare product transfer documents in a manner that notifies the
transferee of the percent by volume of biodiesel in the product.For diesel fuel that contains five percent or
less by volume of biodiesel, a person shall prepare product transfer documents
in a manner that notifies that transferee of any volume percent of biodiesel
intentionally added to or known by the transferor to be in the product.
N.M.The associate
director shall adopt rules regarding the establishment and enforcement of all
of the following:
1.National or federal standards for individual
biofuels and biofuel blends.
2.United States environmental protection agency and
ASTM test methods for individual biofuels and biofuel blends.
3.Registration and reporting requirements for
producers, blenders and suppliers of biofuels and biofuel blends.
4.Labeling requirements for biofuels and biofuel
blends other than biodiesel or biodiesel blends.
5.Quality assurance and quality control programs
for producers, blenders and suppliers of biofuels and biofuel blends addressing
rack, batch or other blending.
6.Requirements that the dispensing equipment meet
appropriate ULratings where available and applicable, that the equipment
comply with rules adopted by the division relating to approval, installation
and sale of devices and that the equipment be compatible with the products
being dispensed.
O.N.A biofuels or
biofuel blends producer, blender, distributor, supplier or retail seller that
is in compliance with this section and the rules adopted pursuant to this
section is not liable to a consumer for any injuries or property damage related
to a consumer who misfuels.
P.A person
shall label each dispenser at which ultra low sulfur diesel fuel is dispensed
in a manner that conforms with 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 80.570,
80.571, 80.572, 80.573 and 80.574 to inform the customer of the sulfur content
of the diesel fuel being dispensed.
Q.A person
shall label each dispenser at which low sulfur diesel fuel is dispensed in a
manner that conforms with 40 Code of Federal Regulations sections 80.570,
80.571, 80.572, 80.573 and 80.574 to inform the customer of the sulfur content
of the diesel fuel being dispensed.
R.O.If any person
transfers custody or title of a diesel fuel or distillate, biodiesel, a biodiesel blend, biomassbased diesel or
a biomassbased diesel blend, except if the diesel fuel is dispensed into a motor vehicle
or nonroad, locomotive or marine equipment, the transferor shall provide to the
transferee product transfer documents that conform with 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 80.590.
S.P.If the transfer
of a motor fuel is from a terminal, storage facility, or transmix facility, the
product transfer documents shall contain the information prescribed in
subsection R O of this section. as well as In addition, the fuel transporter shall ensure that the
name and address of the final destination for the shipment, as prescribed by
division rule, are included and
must that the product transfer documents accompany
the shipment to its final destination. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 3-3434, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3434.Area C; standards for motor fuel; exceptions
A.Except as provided in subsections C and D of this
section, after May 31, 2008, a retail seller or fleet owner shall not store,
sell or expose or offer for sale in area C as defined in section 33491 any motor
fuel, kerosene, oil or other liquid or gaseous fuel or lubricating oil,
lubricant, mixtures of lubricants or other similar products if the product
fails to meet the standards specified in this section and in the rules adopted
by the associate director.
B.A person shall not misrepresent the nature,
origination, quality, grade or identity of any product specified in subsection
A of this section or represent the nature, origination, quality, grade or
identity of such product in any manner calculated or tending to mislead or in
any way deceive.
C.After consultation with the director of the
department of environmental quality, the standards and test methods for motor
fuels shall be established by the associate director of the division by rule.
D.Maximum vapor pressure for gasoline that is
supplied or sold by any person and that is intended as a final product for the
fueling of motor vehicles in area C as
defined in section 33491 shall be 7.0 pounds per square
inch from and after May 31 through September 30 of each year. Fuel used in
motor vehicles at a manufacturer's proving ground or a motor vehicle racing
event as defined by section 33491
is exempt from this subsection.
E.The associate director of the division in
consultation with the director of the department of environmental quality shall
approve alternate fuel control measures that are submitted by manufacturers or suppliers of gasoline providers and that the directors director and associate director determine will
result in motor vehicle nonmethane hydrocarbon emissions that are equal
to or less than the emissions that result under compliance with subsection D of
this section. In making this determination, the associate director of the
division and the director of the department of environmental quality shall
compare the motor vehicle nonmethane hydrocarbon emissions of the
alternate fuel control measure with the motor vehicle non-methane hydrocarbon
emissions of a fuel that complies with the maximum vapor pressure standard as
prescribed by subsection D of this section.
F.Any alternate fuel control measures that are
approved shall not increase emissions of non-methane hydrocarbons,
particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen. Alternate fuel control
measures approved pursuant to subsection E of this section and this subsection
may be used by any manufacturer or
supplier of gasoline provider
unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty
days before the first day of a gasoline control period.Manufacturers and suppliers who Gasoline providers that use an
approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan
to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a
gasoline control period. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 3-3436, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3436.Dispensing motor fuel; holdopen latches; definition
A.A retail seller may equip all nozzles from which
motor fuel is dispensed with an operating holdopen latch.
B.From and
after September 30, 2018, all retail diesel fuel dispensers shall be equipped
with nozzles that have green grip guards and all retail ethanol flex fuels
shall be equipped with yellow grip guards. Other product nozzles may not have
green or yellow grip guards.
B.C.For the purposes
of this section, "holdopen latch" means a device that is an
integral part of the automatic nozzle and that is specifically manufactured to
dispense motor fuel without requiring the consumer's physical contact with the
automatic nozzle. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 3-3437, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3437.Aversive or bittering agent in engine coolant and
antifreeze; liability limitation; exceptions; violation; classification
A.Engine coolant or antifreeze that is sold in this state on or after January
1, 2008, that is
manufactured on or after September 1, 2007 and that contains more than ten per cent percent ethylene glycol shall include
denatonium benzoate at a minimum of thirty parts per million and a maximum of
fifty parts per million as an aversive or bittering agent in the product to
render it unpalatable. A manufacturer or packager of engine coolant or
antifreeze that is subject
to this section shall maintain a record of the trade name, scientific name and
active ingredients of the aversive or bittering agent used pursuant to this
section.A manufacturer or packager of engine coolant or antifreeze
shall furnish information and documentation maintained pursuant to this section
to a member of the public on request.
B.This section applies only to manufacturers,
packagers, distributors, recyclers or sellers of engine coolant or antifreeze.
For the purposes of this
section, selling does not include the installation of engine coolant or
antifreeze for compensation.
C.A manufacturer, packager, distributor, recycler
or seller of engine coolant or antifreeze that is required to contain an
aversive or bittering agent pursuant to this section is not liable to any
person for personal injury, death, property damage, damage to the environment
or natural resources or economic loss that results from the inclusion of
denatonium benzoate in engine coolant or antifreeze.
D.The limitation on liability provided in
subsection C of this section applies
only if denatonium benzoate is included in engine coolant or antifreeze in the
concentrations required by this section. The limitation on liability provided
in subsection C of this section does
not apply to a particular liability to the extent that the cause of that
liability is unrelated to the inclusion of denatonium benzoate in engine
coolant or antifreeze.
E.A political subdivision of this state shall not
establish or continue in effect a prohibition, limitation, standard or other
requirement relating to the inclusion of an aversive or bittering agent in
engine coolant or antifreeze, with respect to retail containers containing less
than fiftyfive gallons of engine coolant or antifreeze, that is
different from, or in addition to, this section.
F.This section does not apply to either:
1.The sale of a motor vehicle that contains engine
coolant or antifreeze.
2.Wholesale containers of engine coolant or
antifreeze containing fifty-five gallons or more of engine coolant or
antifreeze.
G.The department
division may inspect,
investigate, analyze and take appropriate actions to administer and enforce
this section.
H.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 3 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 3-3451, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3451.Licensing devices used for commercial
purposes; authorization to test devices used for all other purposes; fees;
certification; issuance of license; violation; classification
A.A person shall not use a commercial device unless
the device is licensed or certified as provided in this chapter.
B.A license shall be obtained annually from the
division on forms prescribed and furnished by the division.The fee
prescribed in this chapter shall be submitted with the prescribed form. A
license shall be obtained not later than thirty days following the first day of
commercial use for original installations. If the ownership of a device that
is licensed is transferred, the ownership of the license may be
transferred.On transfer of a license, new licensees shall notify
the division of the licensee's name and address and the location of the
device. A license for a device shall be posted at the licensed business
location in a manner that provides the division with access to the license during normal
business hours.
C.Any license issued under this chapter applies
only to the instrument or device specified in the license, except that the
associate director may permit the license to be applicable to a replacement for
the original instrument or device.
D.Noncommercial devices may be tested by the
division pursuant to this chapter. A weighing device owned by a person who
uses it only for the purpose of weighing the person's own livestock or
agricultural products and for no commercial purposes is declared to be a
noncommercial device, and the owner of the device is exempt from paying any
licensing fees collected pursuant to this chapter.
E.If a commercial livestock scale is used for
thirty or more days in a calendar year, the scale is required to be licensed.
If a commercial livestock scale is used for fewer than thirty days in a
calendar year, the scale is required to be certified. If an owner or operator
of a commercial livestock scale requests that the division certify the scale,
the certification fee shall be comparable to the license fee prescribed in
section 33452. If an owner or operator of a noncommercial scale
requests that the division certify the scale, the certification fee shall be
comparable to the license fee prescribed in section 33452.
F.At the request of the owner or user of a portable
batch plant, the division may certify the portable batch plant.If
the division certifies a portable batch plant, the certification fee shall be comparable
to the license fee prescribed in section 33452.
G.Any portable measuring device that is five
gallons or less and that is properly marked by the manufacturer according to
standards established by the national institute of standards and technology shall be is exempt from the licensing and certification
provisions of this chapter.
H.For the purpose of ascertaining compliance with
the licensing provisions of this article, the department of revenue shall
provide the division with a monthly report of all transaction privilege tax
licenses issued in the prior month. The report shall include the business
name, type of business and business address of the licensee.
I.The department of revenue shall annually notify
each transaction privilege tax licensee that the licensee is required to
register new or existing weighing or measuring devices with the division.
J.A person or the person's agent who knowingly
files with the department division any notice, statement
or other document required under this section that is false or that contains
any material misstatement of fact is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 3-3452, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3452.Licensing fees; proration; cancellation for nonpayment
A.The following fees shall be paid to the department division as license fees for devices used for
commercial purposes:
Schedules of Fees
1.Weighing devices:
0  500 pounds capacity (or metric
equivalent) $ 12.00
501  2,000 pounds capacity 18.00
2,001  7,500 pounds capacity 36.00
7,501  20,000 pounds capacity 80.00
20,001  60,000 pounds capacity 120.00
60,001 pounds capacity and over 180.00
2.Liquid metering devices (meters) other than
||||||for liquid petroleum gas and utility meters:
maximum 12 gallons per minute and under 12.00
maximum 13  150 gallons per minute 36.00
maximum 151  500 gallons per minute 90.00
maximum 501  1,000 gallons per minute 138.00
maximum 1,001 gallons per minute and over 168.00
3.Motor fuel devices (dispensers) other than
||||||for liquid petroleum gas (not including
||||||satellite hoses or nozzles):
Standard Vapor
Recovery Test
each meter 
15.00 30.00
each blending valve 
15.00 30.00
high volume (over 19 gallons per minute)
diesel per hose and nozzle 15.00
keylock, limited access, with accumulators,
per hose and nozzle 22.50
remote indicator and control unit (no hoses
or nozzles) (accessory only) 22.50
4.Liquid measuring devices for liquid petroleum
||||||gas (meters):
small bottle fill measuring devices 24.00
motor fuel measuring devices, uncompensated 24.00
motor fuel measuring devices, temperature
compensating, including compressed natural
gas filling devices  48.00
motor fuel measuring devices, keylocks 48.00
3/4" and 1" meters, uncompensated 48.00
1 1/4", 1 1/2" and 1 3/4" meters,
uncompensated 72.00
2" meters and larger, uncompensated 72.00
3/4" and 1" meters, temperature
compensating 54.00
1 1/4", 1
1/2" and 1 3/4" meters, temperature
compensating 90.00
2" meters and
larger, temperature compensating 96.00
5.Linear measuring devices:
||||||||all linear measuring mechanical devices 24.00
6.Time measuring
devices:
||||||||all time measuring
mechanical, electrical and
|||||||||||| electronic devices 24.00
7.Counting devices:
all mechanical and electronic counting devices 12.00
B.Testing, inspection, certification and
calibration fees shall be paid pursuant to the fee schedule set forth in
subsection A of this section or the rules of the department division. The department division shall waive license fees for customer
parking time measuring meters owned by municipalities.
C.Issuance or renewal of license as:
1.Public weighmaster 48.00
2.Registered service agency 24.00
3.Registered service representative 4.80
D.The fees set forth in this section are the
maximum amounts that may be charged, but the associate director, at the associate director's discretion, may reduce
the fees to any amount the associate director
deems necessary.
E.The associate
director may prorate the fees set forth in this section for partial year partialyear application.
F.If a person fails to pay a license, permit or
certification fee on or before the date the fee is due, the department division shall impose a penalty equal to
twenty per cent percent of the fee. For each
thirty-day period after the date the fee is due, the department division shall impose an additional penalty
equal to twenty per cent percent of the fee. If a
person fails to pay a license, permit or certification fee and all related
penalties for ninety days after the fee is due, the department division shall cancel the license, permit or
certification. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 3-3453, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3453.License as public weighmaster or
deputy weighmaster required; application; fee; renewal; training; exemptions
A.A person shall not serve as a public weighmaster
or deputy weighmaster unless the person is issued a public weighmaster or
deputy weighmaster license by the division in accordance with practices and
procedures to be established by the associate director.An applicant for a
public weighmaster or deputy weighmaster license shall:
1.Demonstrate a thorough knowledge of all
appropriate weights and measures laws, rules and policies.
2.Have possession of, or have available for use, a
scale that is of sufficient capacity and size and that is licensed and
certified pursuant to section 33451.
3.Demonstrate the necessary experience and training
to operate the scale.
4.Pass the required examination administered by the
division. The associate director may
waive the examination required by this paragraph. 
B.An application for a public weighmaster or deputy
weighmaster license shall be submitted to the division on a form prescribed and
furnished by the division and shall be accompanied by the license fee
prescribed in section 33452. The division shall issue a public
weighmaster or deputy weighmaster license for a period of twelve calendar
months. The license expires on the first day of the month and year indicated
on the license.A public weighmaster or deputy weighmaster license
shall be posted at the licensed scale site in a manner that provides the
division access to the license during normal business hours.
C.If a licensee submits a license renewal
application to the division before the date of expiration of the current
license together with the renewal fee prescribed by the division, the existing
license shall be valid for thirty days following its expiration date, or until
issuance of the renewal license, whichever occurs first.
D.A public
weighmaster shall provide the necessary training for any deputy weighmaster
using the public weighmaster's seal to certify weigh tickets.
D.E.Except
as otherwise provided in subsection F
G of this section, the certified weighing of any
property, livestock or commodity shall be performed only by a public
weighmaster or deputy weighmaster.The following persons are not
required to obtain licenses as public weighmasters or deputy weighmasters:
1.A person weighing property, livestock or a
commodity that the person or the person's employer is either buying or selling
for the person's own account of the person or
the person's employer's own account employer.
2.A person weighing property, livestock or a
commodity in conjunction with or on behalf of a publicly sponsored or nonprofit
organization sponsored exposition, fair or show event.
E.F.The
official weighing of vehicles or conveyances by any employee of a city, county
or state agency for weightcontrol regulatory purposes on public
highways, roads or streets does not constitute public weighing.
F.G.On
request and without charge, the division may issue a limited weighmaster
license to any qualified officer or employee of a city, a county or the state
authorizing the officer or employee to act as a public weighmaster only within
the scope of the officer's or employee's official employment and duties in
enforcing local ordinances substantially complying with the requirements of
this chapter. While performing the duties of a limited weighmaster, a limited
weighmaster shall have the limited weighmaster's license in the limited
weighmaster's possession.
G.H.The
division shall approve all forms, certificates, seals and other documents
together with practices, procedures and equipment used by public weighmasters
or deputy weighmasters in the performance of their duties.A public
weighmaster or deputy weighmaster shall keep for such a period as the division by rule may require a
legible copy of each weight certificate the public weighmaster or deputy
weighmaster issues. Copies of weight certificates shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the division.END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 3-3454, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3454.License required as registered service
agency or registered service representative; qualifications; application; fees;
renewal
A.A person shall not operate as a registered
service agency or as a registered service representative until a license is
issued as provided in this section.
B.An applicant for a registered service agency
license shall:
1.Submit application information satisfactory to
the division.
2.Comply with section 33416, subsection E or
provide evidence that the applicant's vapor recovery test equipment has been
certified by the manufacturer of the equipment within one year of the date of
the application or as deemed appropriate by the division.
3.Pay all required fees.
C.An applicant for a registered service
representative license shall:
1.Demonstrate a thorough working knowledge of all
appropriate weights and measures laws, orders and rules.
2.Demonstrate to the division that the applicant
has possession of, or has available for use, weights and testing equipment
appropriate in design and adequate in amount.
3.Demonstrate the necessary knowledge, training and
experience regarding appropriate standards and testing equipment to service
commercial devices, vapor recovery systems or vapor recovery components.
4.Pass the required examination administered by the
division.
5.Pay all required fees.
D.An application for a registered service agency or
registered service representative license shall be submitted by the applicant
to the division on a form prescribed and furnished by the
division.The division shall issue a registered service agency or
registered service representative license for a period of twelve calendar months.
The license expires on the first day of the month and year indicated on the
license. Each license shall contain, among other information, a license
number.A registered service agency license shall be posted at the
licensed business location in a manner that provides the division with access to the license
during normal business hours. While performing the duties of a registered
service representative, a registered service representative shall have a the registered service representative's
license in the registered service representative's possession.
E.If a licensee submits a license renewal
application to the division before the date of expiration of the current
license, together with the prescribed renewal fee, the existing license shall be is valid for thirty days following its
expiration date, or
until issuance of the renewal license, whichever occurs first.
F.The associate director shall publish, from time
to time as the associate director
deems appropriate, and may supply on request, lists of registered service
representatives and registered service agencies.
G.Each registered service representative license
issued by the division shall indicate the type of service approved by the
division for the licensee.
H.A registered service agency shall use forms and
related procedures prescribed by the division in the performance of its
duties. A registered service agency shall keep a legible copy of each form
used for at least the time period prescribed by the division in its rules.
Copies of the forms shall be available during normal business hours for
inspection by the division. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section
3-3473, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3473.Violations; classification;
jurisdiction
A.A person is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who:
1.Knowingly hinders, interferes with or obstructs
in any way the associate director or any of the associate director's agents or
inspectors in entering the premises where a commercial device may be kept for
inspecting or testing or in the performance of the official duties of the
associate director's director or the associate
director's agent or inspector.
2.Impersonates in any way the associate director or
any one of the associate director's agents or inspectors by the use of the
associate director's seal,
or badge or a counterfeit
of the associate director's seal or
badge, or in any other manner.
3.Uses, or has
in possession possesses for
the purpose of using for any commercial purpose, sells, offers or exposes for
sale or hire, or has in possession
possesses for the purpose
of selling or hiring an incorrect weight or measure or any device or instrument
used or calculated to falsify any weight or measure.
4.Sells, or offers or exposes for sale, less than
the quantity the person represents of any commodity, thing or service.
5.Takes more than the quantity the person
represents of any commodity, thing or service, when, as buyer, the person
furnishes the weight or measure by means of which the amount of the commodity,
thing or service is determined.
B.A person is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor who:
1.Uses, or has
in possession possesses for
the purpose of current use for any commercial purpose, a weight or measure that
does not bear a seal or mark of approval based on inspection and test as
provided in section 33414, subsection A, paragraph 11, unless the weight
or measure has been exempted from testing by order of the division, or unless
the device has been placed in service as provided in this
chapter.Any person or persons making use of a commercial device
that is subject to this chapter shall report to the associate director or the
associate director's representatives, in writing, the number and location of
the commercial device and shall promptly report the installation of any new
commercial device.
2.Disposes of any rejected or condemned weight or
measure in a manner contrary to law or rule.
3.Removes from any weight or measure, contrary to
law or rule, any tag, seal or mark placed on the weight or measure by the
appropriate authority pursuant to this chapter.
4.Keeps for the purpose of selling, advertising or
offering or exposing for sale or sells any commodity, thing or service in a
condition or manner contrary to law or rule.
5.Uses in retail trade, except in the preparation
of packages put up in advance of sale and of medical prescriptions, a weight or
measure that is so positioned that its indications may not be accurately read
and the weighing, metering, measuring or counting operation observed from some
position that may reasonably be assumed by a customer.
6.Violates this chapter or rules adopted under this
chapter.A continuing violation may be deemed to be a separate
violation each day during which the violation is committed for the purpose of
imposing a fine.
C.The provisions of this section are in addition to
and not in limitation of any other provision of law.
D.The attorney general and the county attorney
shall have concurrent jurisdiction to prosecute violations of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section
3-3475, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3475.Civil penalties; hearing
A.A person who violates this chapter, any rule of
the division or any license requirement is subject to a civil penalty imposed
by the associate director.
B.A
person who violates this chapter, any rule of the division or any license
requirement may request a
an informal or formal hearing
to review a civil penalty imposed under this section.If the person requests an informal hearing,
the division may conduct the informal hearing, in person or telephonically, to
resolve a warning or citation. If the person requests a formal hearing or the
warning or citation is not resolved in the informal hearing,the
division shall conduct the a formal hearing in accordance
with title 41, chapter 6, article 10.Except as prescribed in
subsection B C of this section, the civil
penalty shall not exceed one thousand dollars for each infraction nor more than
ten thousand dollars for any thirtyday period at each business location,
for each registered service representative or for each public weighmaster,
provided that no person shall be assessed more than fifty thousand dollars per
thirtyday period.
B.C.The associate
director may double the maximum civil penalty if any of the following applies:
1.A commercial device is found to be in violation
with results that favor the retailer at more than twice the allowable tolerance
as stated in national institute of standards and technology handbook 44.
2.A package is found to exceed the maximum
allowable variation for the labeled quantity allowed in national institute of
standards and technology handbook 133 or the average error of the lot is twice
the sample error limit in favor of the retailer.
3.A vapor recovery system reinspection fails the
required tests.
4.A maximum civil penalty has been imposed on a
retailer for a price posting or price verification violation and in a
reinspection, if conducted within ninety days, the failure rate is ten percent
or more and at least one error is in favor of the retailer.
5.A maximum civil penalty has been imposed on a
refiner, refinery, pipeline, terminal,
fuel transporter, registered supplier or transmix processing
facility for a violation of motor fuel quality standards or producing a product
transfer document that is incorrect, incomplete or produced in any manner
tending to mislead or deceive a person.
C.D.The attorney
general shall bring actions to recover civil penalties pursuant to this section
in the superior court in the county in which the violation occurred or in a county
where the agency has its office. All monies derived from civil penalties shall
be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the state
general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section
3-3476, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3476.Delinquent civil penalties and fees
In addition to any other
penalty, if a civil penalty or any fee due pursuant to this chapter has not
been paid thirty days after the due date, the civil penalty or fee is
delinquent and the department
division may refuse to
issue a license or may revoke a license pursuant to this chapter until the
civil penalty or fee is paid in full. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Repeal
Section 3-3491, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2015, chapter 244, section 2, is repealed.
Sec.24.Renumber
The following sections are renumbered:
Former Sections New
Sections
33492....................................... 33491
33493....................................... 33492
33494....................................... 33493
33495....................................... 33494
33496....................................... 33495
33497....................................... 33496
33498....................................... 33497
33499....................................... 33498
Sec.25.Section 3-3491, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3491.Standards for oxygenated fuel; volatility; exceptions
A.From and after September 30 through March 31 of
each year, in a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or
more persons and in any portion of a county contained in area A, blends of
gasoline with ethanol shall not exceed the volatility requirements prescribed
by section 33433 and rules adopted by the associate director under that
section. From and after September 30 through March 31 of each year, in area B,
blends of gasoline with ethanol may exceed the volatility requirements
prescribed by section 33433 and rules adopted by the associate director
under that section by up to one pound per square inch if the base fuel meets
the requirements of ASTM D4814 and the final gasolineethanol blend
contains at least six percent ethanol by volume but does not exceed United
States environmental protection agency waivers.For any other
locations and period of time, blends of gasoline with ethanol shall meet the
volatility requirements as determined by division rule.
B.Notwithstanding subsection D of this section, the
associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the
department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control
measures that are submitted by manufacturers
or suppliers of gasoline providers
and that the directors
director and the associate director determine
will result in motor vehicle carbon monoxide emission reductions that will
equal or exceed the reductions that result under subsection D of this
section.In making those determinations, the director of the department of environmental quality and
the associate director shall compare the alternative measure against the
emission reduction that would be obtained from a fuel with the maximum vapor
pressure standard prescribed by subsection D of this section and the minimum
oxygen standard prescribed by section 33493
33492 or 33496 33495. Alternative fuel control
measures approved by the associate director of the division in consultation
with the director of the department of environmental quality may be used by any
manufacturer or supplier of
gasoline provider unless
the approval is rescinded by the associate director of the division at least
one hundred eighty days before the beginning of any oxygenate period in the
future.Manufacturers and
suppliers who Gasoline
providers that choose to use an approved alternate fuel control
measure shall annually submit a compliance plan to the associate director not
later than sixty days prior to
before the start of the
oxygenate period.
C.From and after September 30 through March 31 of
each year, all blends of gasoline with alcohol other than ethanol shall satisfy
all of the requirements prescribed by section 33433 and rules adopted by
the associate director under that section and the provisions of a waiver issued
by the United States environmental protection agency pursuant to 42 United
States Code section 7545(f).
D.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, if
the director of the department of environmental quality has previously raised
the minimum oxygen content to the maximum percentage of oxygen allowed for each
oxygenate as provided by section 33496 33495, the designated
air quality planning agency for area B has considered, analyzed and reviewed
the costs and benefits of all other reasonable and available control measures
in lieu of reducing volatility requirements to nine pounds per square inch and
the director of the department of environmental quality finds that area B has failed
to maintain the carbon monoxide national ambient air quality standards by
violating the standard, beginning with the oxygenate period beginning on the
following September 30 and for each oxygenate period thereafter in areaB,
the volatility requirements described by section 33433, subsection G may
be reduced to nine pounds per square inch. If a violation of the carbon
monoxide national ambient air quality standards is recorded after the
volatility requirements have been reduced to nine pounds per square inch, the
director of the department of environmental quality shall remove the one pound
per square inch waiver for gasolineethanol blends.
E.Gasoline that is supplied or sold by any person
and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles
within this state shall not contain the following:
1.Methyl tertiary butyl ether that exceeds 0.3
percent by volume.
2.A total of more than 0.10 percent oxygen by
weight collectively from all of the following oxygenates:
(a)Diisopropylether (DIPE).
(b)Ethyl tert-butylether (ETBE).
(c)Isobutanol.
(d)Isopropanol.
(e)Methanol.
(f)Nbutanol.
(g)Npropanol.
(h)Secbutanol.
(i)Tertamylmethylether (TAME).
(j)Tertbutanol.
(k)Tertpentanol (tertamylalcohol).
F.Subsection E of this section does not prohibit
the transshipment through this state, including storage incident to that
transshipment, of gasoline that contains the oxygenates prescribed by
subsection E of this section if both of the following apply:
1.The gasoline is used or disposed outside this
state.
2.The gasoline is segregated from gasoline that is
intended for use inside this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 3-3492, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3492.Area A; sale of gasoline; oxygen content
A.From and after November 1 through March 31 of
each year:
1.All gasoline that is supplied or sold by any
person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor
vehicles within a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand
or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A or that is
consumed in a motor vehicle in a county with a population of one million two
hundred thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area
A by a fleet owner shall, for a gasoline-ethanol blend, contain not less than
ten percent by volume of ethanol nor more than the maximum percentage of oxygen
allowed by provisions of a waiver issued or other limits established by the
United States environmental protection agency.
2.All gasoline that is supplied or sold by any
person and that is intended as a final product for the fueling of motor vehicles
within a county with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more
persons and any portion of a county contained in area A or that is consumed in
a motor vehicle within a county with a population of one million two hundred
thousand or more persons and any portion of a county contained in area A by a
fleet owner shall, for a blend other than a gasoline-ethanol blend, contain not
less than 2.7 percent by weight of oxygen nor more than the maximum percentage
of oxygen allowed by provisions of a waiver issued or other limits established
by the United States environmental protection agency.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
associate director of the division in consultation with the director of the
department of environmental quality shall approve alternate fuel control
measures that are submitted by manufacturers
or suppliers of gasoline providers
and that the director and the associate director determine will
result in motor vehicle carbon monoxide emissions that are equal to or less
than emissions that result under compliance with subsection A of this section
and section 33433.In making this determination, the
associate director of the division and the director of the department of
environmental quality shall compare the emissions of the alternate fuel control
measure with the emissions of a fuel with a maximum vapor pressure standard as
prescribed by section 33433 and with the minimum oxygen content or
percentage by volume of ethanol as prescribed by this section.
C.Any alternate fuel control measures that are
approved shall not increase emissions of non-methane hydrocarbons,
particulates, carbon monoxide or oxides of nitrogen.Alternate fuel
control measures approved pursuant to subsection B of this section and this subsection
may be used by any manufacturer or
supplier of gasoline provider
unless the approval is rescinded more than one hundred eighty
days before the first day of a gasoline control period.Manufacturers and suppliers who Gasoline providers that use an
approved alternate fuel control measure shall annually submit a compliance plan
to the associate director no later than sixty days before the first day of a
gasoline control period. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 3-3493, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3493.Area A; fuel reformulation; rules
A.From and
after May 1, 1999, All gasoline produced and shipped to or within
this state and sold or offered for sale for use in motor vehicles in a county
with a population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any
portion of a county contained in area A, subject to an appropriate waiver
granted by the administrator of the United States environmental protection
agency pursuant to section 211(c)(4) of the clean air act as defined in section
49401.01, shall comply with either of the following fuel reformulation
options:
1.A gasoline that meets standards for federal phase
II reformulated gasoline, as provided in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section
80.41, paragraphs (e) through (h), in effect on January 1, 1999, except that
the minimum oxygen content standard does not apply. The gasoline shall also
meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in section 33433,
subsections D andF.
2.California phase 2 reformulated gasoline,
including alternative formulations allowed by the predictive model, as adopted
by the California air resources board pursuant to California Code of
Regulations title 13, sections 2261 through 2262.7 and 2265, in effect on
January 1, 1997, except that the minimum oxygen content standard does not
apply. The gasoline shall also meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in
section 33433, subsections D and F.
B.For the period beginning November 1 through March
31 of each year, all gasoline produced and shipped to or within this state and
sold or offered for sale for use in motor vehicles in a county with a
population of one million two hundred thousand or more persons and any portion
of a county contained in area A, subject to an appropriate waiver granted by
the administrator of the United States environmental protection agency pursuant
to section 211(c)(4) of the clean air act as defined in section 49401.01,
shall comply with standards for California phase 2 reformulated gasoline,
including alternative formulations allowed by the predictive model, as adopted
by the California air resources board pursuant to California Code of
Regulations title 13, sections 2261 through 2262.7 and 2265, in effect on
January 1, 1997 and shall meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in
section 33433, subsections D and F.The fuel described in
this subsection shall meet the requirements of section 33493 33492, subsection A, paragraph1.
C.For each
winter season of November through March, the associate director of the division
shall determine the average levels of the constituents in the gasoline sold or
offered for sale in area A and shall provide the results of this determination
to the director of environmental quality.The director of
environmental quality shall analyze the data provided by the associate director
of the division, no later than July 1 of each year, shall determine the average
daily carbon monoxide reductions resulting from the use of the gasoline
specified in subsection B of this section during the preceding winter season.
D.C.Any registered
supplier or oxygenate blender, as defined in division rules, may petition the
associate director to request that all registered suppliers or oxygenate
blenders be allowed to comply with any
provision of standards
other than the standards prescribed by section 33493 33492, subsection A, provided if the petitioner can demonstrate that ethanol
supply shortages are imminent.
E.D.The petition
shall:
1.Identify specific supply conditions that will
result in a shortage of ethanol.
2.Identify which oxygenate or oxygenates and the
concentration that will be blended into gasoline for sale or use in area A.
3.Demonstrate that the alternative oxygenate blend
comes closest to meeting a three and onehalf percent by weight oxygen
content at reasonable cost, unless the registered supplier or oxygenate blender
is petitioning to use a gasoline-ethanol blend containing less than ten percent
by volume of ethanol.
4.Specify a time period for compliance with any
provision of section 33493 33492, subsection A,
not to exceed sixty days.
F.E.The associate
director shall either grant or deny the petition in writing within seven days
of its receipt. Any decision by the associate director to grant the petition
shall be equally applicable to all registered suppliers or oxygenate blenders
and shall not be selectively applied to any single registered supplier or
oxygenate blender. The petition may be granted only if the associate director
verifies that the basis for requesting the petition is factual.
G.F.The associate
director may reauthorize a petition if the petitioner can demonstrate that the
conditions have continued.The reauthorization of a petition shall
not exceed thirty days.
H.G.The associate
director of the division shall consult with the director of the department of
environmental quality before granting, reauthorizing or denying any such petition.
I.H.The director of
environmental quality in consultation with the associate director of the
division shall adopt by rule:
1.Requirements to implement subsections A through E, B, C and D of this section.
2.Requirements for recordkeeping, reporting and
analytical methods for fuel providers to demonstrate compliance with
subsections A through E, B, C and D of this section.
J.I.This section does
not apply to fuel sold for use at a motor vehicle manufacturer proving ground
or at a motor vehicle racing event. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 3-3494, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3494.Area C; fuel reformulation; rules
A.From and after May 1 31
through September 30 of each year, all gasoline produced and
shipped to or within this state and sold or offered for sale for use in motor
vehicles in area C shall comply with either of the following fuel reformulation
options:
1.A gasoline that meets standards for federal phase
II reformulated gasoline, as provided in 40 Code of Federal Regulations section
80.41, paragraphs (e) through (h), in effect on January 1, 1999, except that
the minimum oxygen content standard does not apply. The gasoline shall also
meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in section 33434,
subsection D.
2.California phase 2 reformulated gasoline,
including alternative formulations allowed by the predictive model, as adopted
by the California air resources board pursuant to California Code of
Regulations title 13, sections 2261 through 2262.7 and 2265, in effect on
January 1, 1997, except that the minimum oxygen content standard does not
apply. The gasoline shall also meet the maximum vapor pressure requirements in
section 33434, subsection D.
B.Any registered supplier or oxygenate blender, as defined in division
rules, may petition the associate director to request that all registered
suppliers or oxygenate blenders
be allowed to supply gasoline in area C that does not meet the standards in
subsection A of this section if the petitioner demonstrates that a shortage in
the supply of gasoline meeting the standards in subsection A of this section is
imminent.
C.A petition under subsection B of this section
shall:
1.Identify specific supply conditions that will
result in a shortage of gasoline meeting the standards in subsection A of this
section.
2.Identify the formulation of gasoline that will be
sold in area C in lieu of gasoline meeting the standards in subsection A of
this section.
3.Specify a time period for compliance with the
standards of subsection A of this section not to exceed sixty days.
D.The associate director shall either grant or deny
a petition under subsection B of this section in writing within seven days of
its receipt. Any decision by the associate director to grant the petition
shall be equally applicable to all registered suppliers or oxygenate blenders and shall not be
selectively applied to any single registered supplier or oxygenate blender. The petition may be
granted only if the associate director verifies that the basis for requesting
the petition is factual.
E.The associate director may reauthorize a petition
granted under subsection B of this section if the petitioner demonstrates that
the conditions identified in the petition have continued. The reauthorization
of a petition shall not exceed thirty days.
F.The associate director of the division shall
consult with the director of the department of environmental quality before
granting, reauthorizing or denying any petition under subsection B of this
section.
G.The associate
director, in consultation with the director of the department of
environmental quality, in consultation with the associate director of
the division shall adopt by rule:
1.Requirements to implement subsections A, B and C
of this section.
2.Requirements for recordkeeping, reporting and
analytical methods for fuel providers to demonstrate compliance with subsection
A of this section.
H.This section does not apply to fuel sold for use
at a motor vehicle manufacturer proving ground or at a motor vehicle racing
event. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 3-3498, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3498.Inspections
A.On request, an interstate pipeline terminal or a
motor fuel storage or dispensing site shall provide a product transfer document
to the department division.Product
transfer documents may be stored off site as provided by department division rule.
B.On request, a motor fuel storage or dispensing
site shall provide access to motor fuel dispensing cabinets to the department division for inspection of fuel dispensing
meters and blending valves.END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 3-3512, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3512.Stage I vapor recovery systems
A.A person shall not offer for sale, sell, install
or use a new gasoline stage I vapor recovery system, or any new or rebuilt
component parts of the system, unless the system or component part has been
certified by the California air resources board as of March 31, 2001 or after
that date, or has been approved by a third party accredited to test equipment
and recognized by industry and the department division, and has not been
rejected by the division.The division shall maintain and keep
current a list of stage I vapor recovery systems and component parts that are
approved by the division.Only those systems that are approved shall
be used in this state. All certified vapor recovery components must be clearly
identified by a permanent identification affixed by the certified manufacturer
or rebuilder.
B.For gasoline dispensing sites with a throughput
of over ten thousand gallons per month in area A or area B as defined in section 49541, a person
shall not transfer or allow the transfer of gasoline into storage tanks at
gasoline dispensing sites unless the storage tank is equipped with a stage I
vapor recovery system consisting of a vaportight return line from the
storage tank or its vent to the gasoline transport vehicle.
C.An owner or operator of a gasoline storage tank,
gasoline transport vehicle or gasoline dispensing site subject to stage I vapor
recovery requirements shall comply with the following:
1.Install all necessary stage I vapor recovery
systems and make any modifications necessary to comply with the requirements.
2.Provide adequate training and written
instructions to the operator of the affected gasoline dispensing site and the
gasoline transport vehicle.
3.Replace, repair or modify any worn or ineffective
component or design element to ensure the vaportight integrity and
efficiency of the stage I vapor recovery systems.
4.Connect and ensure proper operation of the stage
I vapor recovery systems whenever gasoline is being loaded, unloaded or
dispensed.
5.In area A and other geographical areas as
provided by subsection G of this section, have the stage I vapor recovery
system tested annually by a registered service representative licensed by the
division.
D.Before the initial installation or modification
of any stage I vapor recovery system, the owner or operator of a gasoline
storage tank, gasoline transport vehicle or gasoline dispensing site shall
obtain a plan review and approval from the division.Application for
the plan review and approval shall be on forms prescribed and provided by the
division.
E.The division in consultation with the department
of environmental quality and the state fire marshal shall establish by rule
standards for the installation and operation of stage I vapor recovery systems.The
division shall establish by rule plan review and approval fees.In
establishing those rules and standards, the associate director shall consider
requirements in other states to ensure that only stateoftheart
technology is used.
F.Approval of a stage I vapor recovery system by
the division does not relieve the owner or operator of the responsibility to
comply with other applicable statutes, codes and rules pertaining to fire
prevention, environmental quality and safety matters.
G.Any county, city or town outside of area A or
area B as defined in section 49541
may require gasoline dispensing sites with a throughput greater than ten
thousand gallons per month to install, operate and maintain stage I vapor
recovery systems in accordance with this section.Any county, city
or town, including cities and towns within area B, also may require annual
testing of required stage I vapor recovery systems pursuant to subsection C of
this section.For a county, city or town considering the adoption of
a resolution to require stage I vapor recovery systems or annual testing within
its jurisdiction and on request, the department of environmental quality shall
provide technical assistance in evaluating the air quality in that county, city
or town and shall provide final review and approval of an adopted resolution.
H.A county board of supervisors or governing body
of a city or town shall submit a resolution approved by the department of
environmental quality to the associate director of the division requesting the
imposition of the requirements for stage I vapor recovery systems within its
jurisdiction.
I.The associate director shall adopt, by rule,
compliance schedules for gasoline dispensing sites located within the
jurisdiction requesting stage I vapor recovery system requirements no later
than twelve months after receipt of the resolution from the county board of
supervisors or governing board of a city or town.All gasoline
dispensing sites shall be required to comply with stage I vapor recovery system
rules within twentyfour months after the rules have been filed with the
secretary of state. Sites with stage I vapor recovery systems already
installed must comply with the testing requirements at the time the rules
become effective.
J.A county board of supervisors or governing body
of a city or town that adopts the requirements for stage I vapor recovery
systems may repeal those requirements by adopting a resolution to remove the
imposition of those requirements within its jurisdiction unless the county,
city or town is in an ozone nonattainment area that has since been designated
as moderate, serious or severe by the United States environmental protection
agency under section 107(d) of the clean air act.On receipt of the
resolution, the associate director of the division shall consult with the
director of the department of environmental quality to verify that a county,
city or town is outside of an ozone nonattainment area designated as moderate,
serious or severe by the United States environmental protection agency under
section 107(d) of the clean air act.After consultation with the
department of environmental quality, the associate director of the division
shall revise the rules to repeal the requirements for stage I vapor recovery
systems within that jurisdiction as soon as practicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Section 3-3514, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3514.Stage I rule effectiveness; enhanced enforcement
The associate director
shall adopt rules to:
1.Enhance enforcement of the department's division's stage I vapor recovery
program.The enforcement shall be enhanced through programs that may
include increased frequency of or targeting of inspections, increased sampling
frequency, use of portable analyzers or any other technique. 
2.Establish standards and fees for required
inspections of vapor recovery systems. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 28-9501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Commercial
device" means any measuring device that is used to determine the direct
cost of things or used to establish a fee for service if the cost is based on
measure.
1."Registered
service agency" means any agency, firm, company or corporation that for
hire, award, commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services,
repairs or reconditions a taxi meter and that is licensed pursuant to section 33454.
2."Registered
service representative" means any individual who for hire, award,
commission or any other payment of any kind installs, services, repairs or
reconditions a taxi meter and who is licensed pursuant to section 33454.
2.3."Taxi
meter" means a commercial
device that meets the requirements of the
national institute of standards and technology handbook 44 as prescribed by
section 33413
automatically calculates, at a predetermined rate or rates, and indicates the
charge for hire of a vehicle. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 28-9502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9502.Powers and duties
A.The department shall:
1.Adopt any rules necessary to carry out this
chapter and adopt reasonable rules for the enforcement of this chapter. These
rules have the force and effect of law and shall be adopted pursuant to title
41, chapter 6. In adopting these rules,
the director shall consider, as far as is practicable, the requirements
established by other states and by authority of the United States, except that
rules may not be made in conflict with this chapter.
2.Investigate complaints made to the department
concerning violations of this chapter and, on its own initiative, conduct
investigations it deems appropriate in order to develop information relating to
prevailing procedures in commercial
quantity taxi meter rate determination
and possible violations of this chapter and to promote accuracy in the
determination and representation of quantity in commercial transactions taxi meter rates.
3.Inspect and test taxi meters to determine whether
the taxi meters meet the requirements of the national institute of standards
and technology handbook 44 as prescribed by section 33413 the department in rule.
4.Apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for
a temporary or permanent injunction restraining any person from violating this
chapter.
5.Report to
the governor on or before August 1 of each year and at such other times as may
be required on the work accomplished under this chapter.
6.5.Subject
to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ such personnel as needed to assist in
administering this chapter.
B.Testing and
inspection conducted pursuant to this chapter shall be done, to the extent
practicable, without prior notice, by a random systematic method determined by
the director or in response to a complaint by the public.
C.During the course of an investigation or an
enforcement action by the department, information regarding the complainant is
confidential and is exempt from title 39, chapter 1 unless the complainant
authorizes the information to be public. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section 28-9503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9503.Licensing of taxi meters; fees; posting; violation;
classification
A.A person may not use a commercial device taxi meter unless the device taxi
meter is licensed as provided in this chapter.
B.A license shall be obtained annually from the
department on forms prescribed and furnished by the department.The
fee, as determined by the director by rule, shall be submitted with the
prescribed form. A license shall be obtained not later than thirty days following after the first day of commercial use for
original installations. If the ownership of a licensed device taxi
meter is transferred, the ownership of the license may be
transferred. On transfer of a license, new licensees shall notify the
department of the licensee's name and address and the location of the device taxi meter.
C.If a fare is based on time or mileage or both
time and mileage, a taxi shall have a commercial
device taxi meter and
shall obtain a license as prescribed by the department, except that if the
service offered by the taxi is a prearranged ground transportation service as
prescribed in section 28141 for a predetermined fare, a taxi is not
required to use a commercial device
taxi meter.
D.The department may not issue a license for a taxi, livery vehicle or limousine
unless the taxi, livery vehicle or
limousine meets the requirements for both does all of the following:
1.Meets the
requirements for motor vehicle licensing as prescribed by the
department.
2.Meets the
requirements motor vehicle insurance as prescribed by section 284033.
3.Obtains
an inservice report from a registered service agency or registered
service representative.
E.The
department may not issue a license for a livery vehicle or limousine unless the
livery vehicle or limousine meets the requirements for both of the following:
1.Motor
vehicle licensing as prescribed by the department.
2.Motor
vehicle insurance as prescribed by section 284033.
E.F.The
department shall revoke a license if the taxi, livery vehicle or limousine
fails to maintain the requirements for either of the following:
1.Motor vehicle licensing as prescribed by the
department.
2.Motor vehicle insurance as prescribed by section
284033.
F.G.A
taxi or livery vehicle shall have a license issued under this chapter posted on
the outside of the rear window as required by the department.A
limousine shall carry a license issued under this chapter inside the vehicle at
all times.
G.H.A
taxi that is licensed by the department and that offers local transportation
for a fare determined on the basis of the distance traveled or prearranged
ground transportation service as prescribed in section 28141 for a
predetermined fare is not required to be additionally licensed as a livery
vehicle.
H.I.A
person or the person's agent who knowingly files with the department any
notice, statement or other document required under this section that is false
or that contains any material misstatement of fact is guilty of a class 2
misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 28-9521, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9521.Unlawful use of taxi meter; authorization to prevent such
use; seizure; violation; classification
A.When any commercial
device taxi meter specified
in this chapter is in commercial use and a valid license for the device taxi
meter has not been procured by the owner, the owner's agent or
the operator of the device taxi meter, the department,
after giving notice of the licensing requirements to the owner, the owner's
agent or the operator, shall prohibit the further commercial use of the
unlicensed device taxi meter until the proper
license has been issued.The department may employ and attach to the
device taxi meter such forms, notices or security
seals as it considers necessary to prevent the continued unauthorized use of
the device taxi meter.
B.A registered service agency or registered service representative
may also:
1.With approval of the department, remove an
official rejection tag placed on a commercial
device taxi meter.
2.Place in service, until an official examination
can be made, a commercial device
taxi meter that has been
officially rejected or placed out of service.
3.Place in service, until an official examination
can be made, a commercial device
taxi meter for which a commercial device taxi meter application has been completed and
submitted to the department.
4.Place out
of service a taxi meter that does not meet the standards to be placed in
service.
C.A
registered service agency or registered service representative shall notify the
department within seventytwo hours after any action taken pursuant to
subsection B of this section.
C.D.The
owner of any business who has not applied for and has not been issued a license
for the right to do business involving the use of a commercial device taxi meter by the department and who is found
selling or offering for sale or delivering or distributing to a consumer is
guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor, and the department shall confiscate and seize
the commercial device taxi meter or any other such measuring device meter used by the business for the sale, delivery or distribution as
evidence.
D.E.The
director and any other authorized personnel are not liable to the owner or any
other persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, trusts or agencies for
damages, directly or indirectly, caused by or resulting from the seizure.
E.F.If a commercial device taxi meter licensed pursuant to this chapter
is used contrary to any provision of this chapter or any rule adopted pursuant
to this chapter, the department, in addition to any other penalty imposed by
this chapter, shall suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 28-9523, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9523.Violations; classification; jurisdiction
A.A person is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor who:
1.Knowingly hinders, interferes with or obstructs
in any way the director or any of the director's agents or inspectors in
entering the premises where a commercial
device taxi meter
may be kept for inspecting or testing or in the performance of the director's official duties of the director or the
director's agent's agents or inspector's official duties inspectors.
2.Impersonates in any way the director or any of
the director's agents or inspectors by the use of the director's seal or a
counterfeit of the director's seal or in any other manner.
3.Uses, or has in possession for the purpose of
using for any A commercial purpose, sells, offers or exposes for sale or hire, or has in
possession for the purpose of selling or
hiring an incorrect weight or measure or
any device or instrument taxi
meter used or calculated to falsify any weight or measure the accuracy of the taxi meter.
4.Sells, or
offers or exposes for sale, less than the quantity the person represents of any
commodity, thing or service.
5.Takes more
than the quantity the person represents of any commodity, thing or service,
when, as buyer, the person furnishes the weight or measure by means of which
the amount of the commodity, thing or service is determined.
B.A person is guilty
of a class 2 misdemeanor who:
1.Uses, or has in
possession for the purpose of current use for any commercial purpose, a weight or measure taxi meter that does not bear a seal or mark
of approval based on an inspection and test, unless the weight or measure taxi meter has been exempted from testing by
order of the department, or unless the device
taxi meter has been
placed in service as provided in this chapter.Any person or persons
making use of a commercial device
taxi meter that is
subject to this chapter shall report to the director or the director's
representatives, in writing, the number and location of the commercial device taxi meter and shall promptly report the
installation of any new commercial device
taxi meter.
2.Disposes of any rejected or condemned weight or measure taxi meter in a manner contrary to law or
rule.
3.Removes from any weight or measure taxi meter, contrary to law or rule, any tag,
seal or mark placed on the weight or
measure taxi meter by
the appropriate authority pursuant to this chapter.
4.Keeps for the purpose of selling, advertising or
offering or exposing for sale or sells any commodity, thing or service in a condition or
manner contrary to law or rule.
5.Uses in
retail trade, except in the preparation of packages put up in advance of sale
and of medical prescriptions, a weight or measure a taxi meter that is so positioned that its
indications cannot be accurately read and the weighing, metering, measuring or counting operation cannot be
observed from some position that may reasonably be assumed by a customer.
6.Violates this chapter or rules adopted under this
chapter.A continuing violation may be deemed to be a separate
violation each day during which the violation is committed for the purpose of
imposing a fine.
C.The provisions of this section are in addition to
and not in limitation of any other provision of law.
D.The attorney general and the county attorney
shall have concurrent jurisdiction to prosecute violations of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 28-9524, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9524.Presumptive evidence of use
When a weight, measure,
meter, counter or commercial device taxi meter is in or about any place in which
or from which buying or selling
a vehicle hire transaction is
commonly carried on, there shall be
is a rebuttable
presumption that the weight, measure,
meter, counter or commercial device taxi meter is regularly used for the business
purpose of the place. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 28-9525, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-9525.Civil penalties
A.A person who violates this chapter, any rule of
the department or any license requirement is subject to a civil penalty imposed
by the director.A person who violates this chapter, any rule of the
department or any license requirement may request a hearing to review a civil
penalty imposed under this section.The department shall conduct the
hearing in accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10.Except
as prescribed in subsection B of this section, the civil penalty may not exceed
one thousand dollars for each infraction or more than ten thousand dollars for
any thirtyday period at each business location or for each public weighmaster, provided that
no person shall be assessed more than fifty thousand dollars per thirtyday
period.
B.The director may double the maximum civil penalty
if any of the following applies:
1.A
commercial device a taxi
meter is found to be in violation with results that favor the retailer licensee at more than twice the allowable
tolerance as stated in national institute of standards and technology handbook
44.
2.A package
is found to exceed the maximum allowable variation for the labeled quantity
allowed in national institute of standards and technology handbook 133 or the
average error of the lot is twice the sample error limit in favor of the
retailer.
3.A maximum
civil penalty has been imposed on a retailer for a price posting or price
verification violation and in a reinspection, if conducted within ninety days,
the failure rate is ten percent or more and at least one error is in favor of
the retailer.
C.The attorney general shall bring actions to
recover civil penalties pursuant to this section in the superior court in the
county in which the violation occurred or in a county where the agency has its
office.All monies derived from civil penalties shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the state general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Section 41-1092.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.02.Appealable agency actions; application of procedural
rules; exemption from article
A.This article applies to all contested cases as
defined in section 411001 and all appealable agency actions, except
contested cases with or appealable agency actions of:
1.The state department of corrections.
2.The board of executive clemency.
3.The industrial commission of Arizona.
4.The Arizona corporation commission.
5.The Arizona board of regents and institutions
under its jurisdiction.
6.The state personnel board.
7.The department of juvenile corrections.
8.The department of transportation, except as provided in title 28, chapter 30, article 2.
9.The department of economic security except as
provided in section 46458.
10.The department of revenue regarding:
(a)Income tax or withholding tax.
(b)Any tax issue related to information associated
with the reporting of income tax or withholding tax unless the taxpayer requests
in writing that this article apply and waives confidentiality under title 42,
chapter 2, article 1.
11.The board of tax appeals.
12.The state board of equalization.
13.The state board of education, but only in
connection with contested cases and appealable agency actions related to
applications for issuance or renewal of a certificate and discipline of
certificate holders pursuant to sections 15203, 15534, 15534.01,
15535, 15545 and 15550.
14.The board of fingerprinting.
15.The department of child safety except as
provided in sections 8506.01 and 8811.
B.Unless waived by all parties, an administrative
law judge shall conduct all hearings under this article, and the procedural
rules set forth in this article and rules made by the director apply.
C.Except as provided in subsection A of this
section:
1.A contested case heard by the office of
administrative hearings regarding taxes administered under title 42 shall be
subject to the provisions under
section 421251.
2.A final decision of the office of administrative
hearings regarding taxes administered under title 42 may be appealed by either
party to the director of the department of revenue, or a taxpayer may file and
appeal directly to the board of tax appeals pursuant to section 421253.
D.Except as provided in subsections A, B, E, F and
G of this section and notwithstanding any other administrative proceeding or
judicial review process established in statute or administrative rule, this
article applies to all appealable agency actions and to all contested cases.
E.Except for a contested case or an appealable
agency action regarding unclaimed property, sections 411092.03, 411092.08
and 411092.09 do not apply to the department of revenue.
F.The board of appeals established by section 37213
is exempt from:
1.The time frames for hearings and decisions
provided in section 411092.05, subsection A, section 411092.08
and section 411092.09.
2.The requirement in section 411092.06,
subsection A to hold an informal settlement conference at the appellant's
request if the sole subject of an appeal pursuant to section 37215 is
the estimate of value reported in an appraisal of lands or improvements.
G.Auction protest procedures pursuant to title 37,
chapter 2, article 4.1 are exempt from this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.40.Laws
2014, chapter 132, section 11 is amended to read:
Sec.11.Delayed repeal
Section 412135 33515, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act,
is repealed from and after September 30, 2018.
Sec.41.Exemption from rulemaking
For the purposes of this act and
Laws 2015, chapter 244, the Arizona department of agriculture and the
department of transportation are exempt from the rulemaking requirements of
title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective
date of this act.
Sec.42.Effective date; retroactivity
This act is effective and applies retroactively to from and
after June30, 2016.

