







REFERENCE TITLE: expenditure limitations; community
  colleges







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2126









Introduced by
Representatives
  Shope, Olson





AN ACT

amending sections
151444, 151471 and 41563, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to community college districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1444, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1444.General powers and duties of district governing boards
A.Except as otherwise provided, the district board
shall:
1.Maintain each community college for a period of
not less than eight months in each year and, if the funds of the district are
sufficient, maintain each community college for a longer period.
2.Adopt policies in a public forum to offer
programs that meet the educational needs of the population served by the community
college.
3.Enforce the courses of study prescribed by the
district board.
4.Visit each community college under its
jurisdiction and examine carefully into its management, conditions and needs.
5.Exclude from each community college all books, publications
or papers of a sectarian, partisan or denominational character intended for use
as textbooks.
6.Appoint and employ a chancellor or chancellors,
vicechancellors, a president or presidents, vicepresidents,
deans, professors, instructors, lecturers, fellows and such other officers and
employees it deems necessary. The district board may enter into employment
contracts with chancellors, vicechancellors and presidents for a
duration of more than one year but not more than five years.
7.Determine the salaries of persons it appoints and
employs.
8.Remove any officer or employee if in its judgment
the interests of education in this state require the removal.
9.Award degrees, certificates and diplomas on the
completion of courses and curriculum as it deems appropriate.
10.Appoint or employ, if it deems necessary, police
officers who shall have the authority and power of peace officers. The police
officers who have received a certificate from the Arizona peace officer
standards and training board are eligible for membership in and benefits under
either title 38, chapter 5, article 2 or the public safety personnel retirement
system under title 38, chapter 5, article 4.
11.Determine the location within the district of a
community college and purchase, receive, hold, make and take leases of, sell
and convey real or personal property for the benefit of the community colleges
under its jurisdiction.
12.Obtain insurance or be selfinsured, or a
combination of insurance and selfinsurance, against loss, to the extent
it is determined necessary on community college buildings of the district. The
local district shall have an insurable interest in the buildings.
B.The district board may:
1.Administer trusts declared or created for the
district and receive by gift or devise and hold in trust or otherwise property
wheresoever located, and if not otherwise provided, dispose of the property for
the benefit of the district.
2.Lease real property, as lessor or as lessee. If
a district is the lessee, the lease may contain an option to purchase the
property.The district board may adopt policies as are deemed
necessary and may delegate in writing to the chancellor or president of the
district, or their designees, all or any part of its authority to lease
property under this paragraph.Any delegation by the district board
pursuant to this paragraph may be rescinded in whole or in part at any time by
the district board.
3.Sue and be sued.
4.Contract. The district board may adopt such
policies as are deemed necessary and may delegate in writing to the chancellor
or president of the district, or their designees, all or any part of its
authority to contract under this paragraph. Any delegation of authority under
this paragraph may be rescinded by the district board at any time in whole or
in part.
5.Construct, remodel and repair buildings.
6.In conjunction with other districts, establish
policies for procurement of goods and services.
7.Provide a plan or plans for employee benefits,
which may include optional retirement programs pursuant to section 151451,
subsection A, which allow for participation in a cafeteria plan that meets the
requirements of the United States internal revenue code of 1986.
8.Accept grants or donations of monies from the United
States, or from any of its agencies, departments or officers, or from persons,
corporations, foundations or associations. A district board shall deposit the
monies into a specific fund or account and a district board shall administer
the monies in accordance with the purpose of the grant or donation with
specific policies or restrictions as described or stipulated in the grant or
donation. In the case of personal property granted or donated to or for the
benefit of a community college district, a district board shall immediately
transfer possession and ownership of the property to the designated district. Monies received pursuant to this paragraph
are not considered local revenues for the purposes of article Ix, section 21,
constitution of arizona.
9.Enter into intergovernmental agreements or
contracts pursuant to section 11952.01 for participation in programs
offered by public agency pools or separately contract with a trustee or board
of trustees that provides a common selfinsurance program with pooled
funds and risks pursuant to section 15382, subsection B, paragraph 2.
The district board is not required to engage in competitive procurement in
order to make the decision to participate in these programs.
10.Name a building or a group of buildings that is
located on a community college campus on behalf of a person or entity that has
made a significant contribution of monies or other property to the community
college or the community college district.
11.Enter into research and development agreements,
royalty agreements, development agreements, licensing agreements and
profit-sharing agreements concerning the research, development, production,
storing or marketing of new products developed or to be developed through
community college district research.Monies received pursuant to this paragraph are not
considered local revenues for the purposes of article Ix, section 21,
constitution of arizona.
12.Enter into an intergovernmental agreement
pursuant to section 151747 to participate in a reciprocity agreement
subject to the terms of the reciprocity agreement.
13.Collect
auxiliary fees, including cafeteria fees, food service fees, bookstore fees and
dormitory fees. Monies received pursuant to this paragraph are not considered
local revenues for the purposes of article Ix, section 21, constitution of
arizona.
14.Provide
services for a tribal college. Monies received pursuant to this paragraph are
not considered local revenues for the purposes of article Ix, section 21,
constitution of arizona.
C.If a district acquires real or personal property,
whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or otherwise, the district
shall pay to the county treasurer any taxes on the property that were unpaid as
of the date of acquisition, including penalties and interest. The lien for
unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and interest on property acquired by the
district:
1.Is not abated, extinguished, discharged or merged
in the title to the property.
2.Is enforceable in the same manner as other delinquent
tax liens.
D.In a district whose boundaries encompass a
vehicle emissions control area as defined in section 49541, the district
board shall require all outofcounty and outofstate
students to sign an affidavit at the time of course registration that the
student's vehicle meets the requirements of section 49542. The district
board on property under its jurisdiction within a vehicle emissions control
area shall prohibit the parking of those vehicles that fail to comply with
section 49542.
E.A community college district and a joint
technical education district governing board may enter into agreements for the
provision of administrative, operational and educational services and
facilities.
F.Each district may establish a program for the exchange
of students between the community colleges under its jurisdiction and colleges
and universities located in Sonora, Mexico. The program may provide for instate
tuition for Sonora students at the community colleges under the jurisdiction of
the district in exchange for similar tuition provisions for Arizona students
enrolled or seeking enrollment in Sonora colleges and universities. The
community colleges may work in conjunction with the ArizonaMexico
commission in the governor's office to coordinate recruitment and admissions
activities to provide for instate tuition for up to fifty Sonora
students at the community colleges under the jurisdiction of the district in
exchange for similar tuition provisions for up to fifty total Arizona students
enrolled or seeking enrollment in Sonora colleges and universities.
G.Each district shall facilitate transfer
articulation coordination pursuant to section 151824. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-1471, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1471.Expenditure limitations; overrides; permanent change in
base limit
A.A district board, on the approval of a majority
of the qualified electors in the district voting at a regularly scheduled
election on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, may authorize
expenditures in excess of the district expenditure limitation prescribed
pursuant to article IX, section 21, Constitution of Arizona.The
excess expenditures authorized shall be a specified percentage of the
expenditure limitation. The impact of the authorization shall appear on the
ballot and in publicity pamphlets in the same manner as prescribed in section
41563.03.
B.In the resolution requesting the voters to
approve expenditures in excess of the district expenditure limitation
prescribed pursuant to article IX, section 21, Constitution of Arizona, the
district board shall state the number of years in which the authority to expend
in excess of the limitation otherwise prescribed is to be in
effect.The district board shall not request authority from the
voters for a period of less than two years nor more than seven years.
C.Any authorization of expenditures made pursuant
to this section shall be used in determining a modified expenditure limitation which that is equal to the expenditure limitation
prescribed pursuant to article IX, section 21, Constitution of Arizona,
increased by the specified percentage, beginning with the fiscal year
immediately following the approval of the qualified electors of the
district.The district board shall not authorize expenditures in
excess of the modified expenditure limitation in subsequent fiscal years unless
subsequent approval for additional excess expenditures is received as provided
in subsection A of this section.
D.A
DISTRICT BOARD, BY an AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF TWO-THIRDS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE
BOARD, MAY REFER to the voters in the district A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE BASE
LIMIT USED TO DETERMINE THE DISTRICT EXPENDITURE LIMITATION PRESCRIBED PURSUANT
TO ARTICLE IX, SECTION 21, CONSTITUTION OF ARIZONA. A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE
BASE LIMIT MAY BE AUTHORIZED ON THE APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE QUALIFIED
ELECTORS IN THE DISTRICT VOTING AT A REGULARLY SCHEDULED ELECTION ON THE FIRST
TUESDAY AFTER THE FIRST MONDAY IN NOVEMBER. THE IMPACT OF THE AUTHORIZATION
SHALL APPEAR ON THE BALLOT AND IN PUBLICITY PAMPHLETS IN THE SAME MANNER AS
PRESCRIBED IN SECTION 41-563.03.
E.IN THE
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE VOTERS TO APPROVE A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE BASE
LIMIT USED TO DETERMINE THE DISTRICT EXPENDITURE LIMITATION PRESCRIBED PURSUANT
TO ARTICLE IX, SECTION 21, CONSTITUTION OF ARIZONA, THE DISTRICT BOARD SHALL
STATE ALL OF THE FOLLOWING:
1.THE
CURRENT BASE LIMIT USED TO DETERMINE THE DISTRICT EXPENDITURE LIMITATION.
2.THE
PROPOSED BASE LIMIT TO BE USED TO DETERMINE THE DISTRICT EXPENDITURE
LIMITATION.
3.THE
INCREASE IN EXPENDITURE LIMITATION CAPACITY GENERATED BY A CHANGE IN THE BASE
LIMIT FOR THE MOST RECENT CALCULATED EXPENDITURE LIMITATION.
4.A
RATIONALE FOR THE REQUEST TO AUTHORIZE A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE BASE LIMIT
USED IN THE CALCULATION OF THE EXPENDITURE LIMITATION.
F.ANY
AUTHORIZATION OF A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE BASE LIMIT PURSUANT TO SUBSECTION D
OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE USED IN DETERMINING A MODIFIED EXPENDITURE LIMITATION
PRESCRIBED PURSUANT TO ARTICLE IX, SECTION 21, CONSTITUTION OF ARIZONA,
BEGINNING WITH THE FISCAL YEAR IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE APPROVAL of the
permanent change by THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-563, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-563.Expenditure limitations; determination by the commission;
definitions
A.For political subdivisions, the commission shall:
1.Determine the base limit level of political
subdivisions for each political subdivision subject to an expenditure
limitation pursuant to article IX, section 20, Constitution of Arizona. For
the purposes of this subsection and subsection D of this section, the
"base limit" of each political subdivision means the amount of actual
payments of local revenues by such political subdivision in fiscal year 19791980
as used to determine the expenditure limitation pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
subsection.
2.Determine and report to the governing board of
each political subdivision subject to an expenditure limitation pursuant to
article IX, section 20, Constitution of Arizona, prior to February 1 of each
year, the following:
(a)The total of the estimated population of each
such political subdivision as of July 1 of the prior year and the estimated
population of any areas annexed by such political subdivisions thereafter,
based on the population estimates developed by the department of economic security office of employment and population statistics.The
population of any areas annexed thereafter must be estimated as of July 1 of
the prior year.
(b)The estimated change in the GDP price deflator
used to determine the expenditure limitation for the following fiscal year over
the GDP price deflator used to determine the expenditure limitation for the
current fiscal year.
(c)The estimated expenditure limitation for each
such political subdivision for the following fiscal year.
3.Determine and report to the governing board of
each political subdivision subject to an expenditure limitation pursuant to
article IX, section 20, Constitution of Arizona, prior to April 1 of each year,
the following:
(a)The total of the population of each such
political subdivision as of July 1 of the prior year and the population of any
areas annexed by such political subdivisions thereafter.The
population of any areas annexed thereafter must be estimated as of July 1 of
the prior year.
(b)The estimated change in the GDP price deflator
used to determine the expenditure limitation for the following fiscal year over
the GDP price deflator used to determine the expenditure limitation for the
current fiscal year.
(c)The expenditure limitation for each such
political subdivision for the following fiscal year.
4.Determine the expenditure limitation for each
political subdivision subject to an expenditure limitation pursuant to article
IX, section 20, Constitution of Arizona, as follows:
(a)Determine the population of the political
subdivision as of July 1, 1978.
(b)Determine the total population of the political
subdivision as required by paragraph 3, subdivision (a) of this subsection.
(c)Divide the population determined in subdivision
(b) of this paragraph by the population determined in subdivision (a) of this
paragraph.
(d)Determine the estimated or actual GDP price
deflator for the 1978 calendar year.
(e)Determine the estimated GDP price deflator for
the calendar year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the
expenditure limitation is being determined.
(f)Divide the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (e) of this paragraph by the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(g)Multiply the amount determined in paragraph 1 of
this subsection for the political subdivision by the quotient determined in
subdivision (c) of this paragraph and multiply the resulting product by the
quotient determined in subdivision (f) of this paragraph.
5.If any annexation, consolidation or change in the
boundaries of a political subdivision occurs after the determination and report
required by paragraph 3 of this subsection but before July 1 of the current
year, the commission, as promptly as feasible, shall redetermine the total
population, calculated in paragraph 4, subdivision (b) of this subsection, of
the political subdivisions affected by the annexation, consolidation or change
in boundaries.The commission shall determine respective amended
expenditure limitations based on the amended population, which shall be
promptly reported to the governing board of each of the affected political
subdivisions.The political subdivisions affected shall use the
revised expenditure limitation if it is received before the annual financial
statement and estimate of expenses is prepared as required by section 4217101.
6.In the event of the creation of a new city or
town, the base limit of the new city or town shall be determined by multiplying
the average amount of actual fiscal year 19791980 per capita payments of
local revenues for all cities and towns within the county in which the new city
or town is located by the population of the new city or town.
7.In the event of the division of a county into two
or more new counties, determine the expenditure limitation for each of the new
counties or the consolidation of counties, pursuant to article IX, section 20,
Constitution of Arizona, using one of the following two methods.The
board of supervisors of each new county upon the affirmative vote of twothirds
of the members of the board of supervisors, on or before February 1 following
the county's establishment, shall adopt one of the expenditure limitations
determined:
(a)Method one:
(i)Determine the existing county which
that has a population closest to the population of the new county
as of July 1 for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the
expenditure limit is being determined.
(ii)Determine the per capita expenditure limit for
the existing county determined in item (i) of this subdivision based on the
amount determined in paragraph 3, subdivision (c) of this subsection for the
first full fiscal year following the establishment of the new county
government.
(iii)Multiply the per capita amount determined in
item (ii) of this subdivision by the population of the new county as of July 1
in the fiscal year in which the new county government is
established.The amount thus determined is the expenditure limit for
the new county for the first full fiscal year following its establishment.
(iv)Determine a base limit for the new county which that will yield the new expenditure limit
determined in item (iii) of this subdivision for the first full fiscal year
following the establishment of the new county government.
(b)Method two:
(i)Determine the per capita expenditure limit of
the old county or counties for the last full fiscal year prior to the
establishment of the new county government based upon on
the amount determined in paragraph 3, subdivision (c) of this subsection.
(ii)Multiply the per capita amount determined in
item (i) of this subdivision by the population of the new county as of July 1
in the fiscal year in which the new county government is
established.The amount thus determined is the expenditure limit for
the new county for the first full fiscal year following its establishment.
(iii)Determine a base limit for the new county which that will yield the new expenditure limit
determined in item (ii) of this subdivision for the first full fiscal year
following the establishment of the new county government.
8.If the governing board of a political subdivision
authorizes expenditures in excess of the expenditure limitation determined
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this subsection as provided in article IX, section
20, subsection (2), paragraph (b), subdivision (i), Constitution of Arizona,
the expenditure limitation for such political subdivision for the following fiscal
year shall be reduced by the amount of expenditures in excess of the
limitation, unless the governing board has held an election as provided in
article IX, section 20, subsection (2), paragraph (b), subdivision (ii),
Constitution of Arizona, and the excess expenditure has been approved by a
majority of the qualified electors voting in such election.
9.If the citizens of a political subdivision
approve an increase or decrease in the expenditure limitation as provided in
article IX, section 20, subsection (6), Constitution of Arizona, the base limit
of a political subdivision shall be adjusted by the commission such that the
expenditure limitation of the political subdivision for the fiscal year
following approval reflects the approved increase or decrease.
B.For community college districts, the commission shall:
1.Determine the base limit of each community
college district subject to an expenditure limitation pursuant to article IX,
section 21, Constitution of Arizona. For the purposes of this subsection and
subsection D of this section, the "base limit" of each community
college district means the amount of expenditures of local revenues in fiscal
year 19791980 as used to determine the expenditure limitation pursuant
to paragraph 4 3 of this subsection.
2.Determine
and report to the governing board of each community college district prior to
February 1 of each year the following:
(a)The
estimated student population, utilizing the procedure prescribed in section 151466.01,
of each community college district for the following fiscal year.
(b)The
estimated change in the GDP price deflator as prescribed in subsection A,
paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section.
(c)The
expenditure limitation for each community college district for the following
fiscal year.
(d)The
modified expenditure limitation as prescribed in section 151471, if
applicable.
3.2.Determine and
report to the governing board of each community college district prior to April
1 of each year the following:
(a)The estimated
student population, utilizing
the procedure prescribed in section 151466.01, of each community college
district for the following fiscal year. using any of the following methods as selected by the
governing board of the community college district:
(i)THE AVERAGE OF THE FIVE MOST RECENTLY PUBLISHED
FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT STUDENT REPORTs PRODUCED BY THE AUDITOR GENERAL. 
(ii)THE MOST RECENT PUBLISHED FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT
STUDENT REPORT PRODUCED BY THE AUDITOR GENERAL.
(iii)IF approved BY THE JOINT LEGISLATIVE BUDGET
COMMITTEE, AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED FIVE PERCENT more THAN THE MOST RECENT
PUBLISHED FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT STUDENT REPORT PRODUCED BY THE AUDITOR GENERAL.
(b)The estimated change in the GDP price deflator
as prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section.
(c)The expenditure limitation for each community
college district for the following fiscal year.
(d)The modified expenditure limitation as
prescribed in section 151471, if applicable.
4.3.Determine the
expenditure limitation for each community college district, as follows:
(a)Determine the student population of each
community college district for fiscal year 19791980 using the definition
of fulltime equivalent student in section 151401 in 19791980,
except that if a redefinition of fulltime equivalent student changes the
number of semester credit units per semester from fifteen units, the student
population for the 19791980 base year shall be recalculated using the
new number of units.
(b)Determine the estimated student population of
each community college district for the fiscal year for which the expenditure
limitation is being determined using the definition of fulltime
equivalent student in section 151401.
(c)Divide the student population determined in
subdivision (b) of this paragraph by the student population determined in
subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(d)Determine the estimated or actual GDP price
deflator for the 1978 calendar year.
(e)Determine the estimated GDP price deflator for
the calendar year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the
expenditure limitation is being determined.
(f)Divide the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (e) of this paragraph by the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(g)Multiply the amount determined in paragraph 1 of
this subsection for the community college district by the quotient determined
in subdivision (c) of this paragraph and multiply the resulting product by the
quotient determined in subdivision (f) of this paragraph.
5.4.In the event of
an annexation, the creation
of a new community college district or a consolidation or change in the
boundaries of a community college district, the base limit of a community
college district shall be adjusted by the commission according to the following
guidelines:
(a)In the event of the creation of a new community
college district, the base limit of the community college district shall be
determined by multiplying the average amount of 19791980 per capita
expenditures of local revenues for all community college districts within the
state by the student population of the new community college
district.The expenditure limit of the county in which the new
community college district is located shall be reduced by the amount paid to
other community college districts for tuition in the fiscal year preceding the
fiscal year in which the new community college district is created.
(b)In the case of an annexation, consolidation or
change in the boundaries of a community college district, the base limit of a
community college district shall be adjusted by the commission to reflect the
change by increasing the base limit of the community college district gaining
the newly included territory and decreasing the base limit of the community
college district losing the territory.
(c)If an existing community college district
consolidates with a contiguous county not part of a community college district, the commission shall:
(i)Increase the base limit of the existing
community college district by an amount equal to the amount of revenue which that would have been generated by applying
the primary property tax rate of the existing community college district in the
immediately prior year to the limited assessed valuation of the contiguous
county in the immediately prior year.
(ii)Decrease the base limit of the contiguous
county by the amount of reimbursement prescribed by section 151469,
subsection B, paragraph 1, paid by such county in the 19791980 base
year, except that no decrease shall be made to the base limit of such county if
the reimbursement prescribed by section 151469, subsection B, paragraph
1 in the immediately prior year was paid by the state pursuant to section 151469.01.
(d)In the case of a decrease in service boundaries
of a community college district, the base limit of the community college
district shall be reduced by the commission to reflect the amount attributable
to the service area in fiscal year 19791980 and the base student
population of the community college district shall be reduced by the commission
to reflect fiscal year 19791980 student population attributable to the
service area. The adjusted base limit and the adjusted fiscal year 19791980
student population shall be used in determining the expenditure limitation for
the community college district in the first year in which the service
boundaries are diminished and in each subsequent year.
C.For school
districts, the commission
shall:
1.Determine the base limit of school districts
subject to the expenditure limitation prescribed by article IX, section 21,
subsection (2), Constitution of Arizona. For the purposes of this subsection
and subsection D of this section, "base limit" means the total amount
of expenditures of local revenues of all school districts in fiscal year 19791980
as used to determine the expenditure limitation pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
subsection.
2.Determine and report to the legislature prior to
March 1 of each year the following:
(a)The estimated total student population of all
school districts for the current year.
(b)The estimated change in the GDP price deflator
as prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section.
(c)The estimated aggregate expenditure limitation
for all school districts for the following fiscal year.
3.Determine and report to the legislature, prior to
May 1 of each year, the following:
(a)The total student population of all school
districts for the current year.
(b)The estimated change in the GDP price deflator
as prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (b) of this section.
(c)The aggregate expenditure limitation for all
school districts for the following fiscal year.
4.Determine the aggregate expenditure limitation
for all school districts as follows:
(a)Determine the aggregate student population of
all school districts for the school year 19781979.
(b)Determine the total student population of all
school districts for the current year.
(c)Divide the aggregate student population
determined in subdivision (b) of this paragraph by the aggregate student
population in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(d)Determine the estimated or actual GDP price
deflator for the 1978 calendar year.
(e)Determine the estimated GDP price deflator for
the calendar year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the aggregate
expenditure limitation is being determined.
(f)Divide the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (e) of this paragraph by the GDP price deflator determined in
subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(g)Multiply the amount determined in paragraph 1 of
this subsection by the quotient determined in subdivision (c) of this paragraph
and multiply the resulting product by the quotient determined in subdivision
(f) of this paragraph.
D.In the case of a transfer of all or any part of
the cost of providing a governmental function, pursuant to article IX, section
20, subsection (4), Constitution of Arizona, or article IX, section 21,
subsection (5), Constitution of Arizona, the base limit of political
subdivisions, community college districts or school districts, whichever is
applicable, shall be adjusted by the commission to reflect the transfer by
increasing the base limit of the political subdivision, community college
district or school district to which the cost is transferred and decreasing the
base limit of the political subdivision, community college district or school
district from which the cost is transferred by the amount of the cost of the
transferred governmental function.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Commission" means the economic
estimates commission.
2."GDP price deflator" means the average
of the four implicit price deflators for the gross domestic product reported by
the United States department of commerce for the four quarters of the calendar
year.
3."Political subdivision" means any
county, city, including any charter city, or town.
4."Population" shall be defined pursuant
to article IX, section 20, subsection (3), paragraph (f), Constitution of
Arizona.
5."Student population" shall be defined
pursuant to article IX, section 21, subsection (4), paragraph (e), Constitution
of Arizona. END_STATUTE

