







REFERENCE TITLE: critical health information; emergency
  responders







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2179









Introduced by
Representatives
  Gabaldn, Andrade, Bolding, Cardenas, Espinoza, Fernandez, Saldate,
  Velasquez: Friese, Hale, Larkin, McCune Davis, Mendez, Plumlee, Senator
  Dalessandro





AN ACT

amending title
28, chapter 3, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 28678;
relating to vehicle accidents.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
28, chapter 3, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 28-678, to read:
START_STATUTE28-678.City, town or county critical health information program;
decal; emergency responders; fee; definitions
A.A city, town or county, by ordinance, may establish a
program to provide emergency responders with critical health information about
program participants so that emergency responders may aid program participants
who are involved in motor vehicle emergencies or accidents and who are unable
to communicate with emergency responders.
B.A city, town or county that establishes a program
pursuant to this section:
1.In consultation with interested parties, including
local law enforcement agencies, fire departments and emergency medical services
personnel, shall design program materials, giving consideration to program
materials used by similar programs in other states in order to maximize
uniformity.Program materials must include all of the following:
(a)A
yellow decal of a uniform size and design that is to be affixed to the rear
driver's side window of the program participant's vehicle.
(b)a
health information card that provides space for a program participant to attach
a recent photograph and indicate the participant's name, emergency contact
information, physicians' names and contact information, medical conditions,
recent surgeries, allergies, medications and any other information that the
city, town or county deems relevant to emergency responders in the case of
emergency.
(c)A
yellow envelope into which the health information card prescribed by
subdivision (b) of
this paragraph is to be inserted and placed into the program participant's
glove compartment.
2.Shall provide sufficient program materials to the
public and to State and local law enforcement agencies, which shall also
provide the information to the public.
3.May charge program participants a nominal fee for
program costs in an amount to be determined by the city, town or county.
C.A yellow decal described in subsection B of this
section that is on a motor vehicle that is involved in a motor vehicle accident
or emergency:
1.Serves as notice to an emergency responder assisting
the motor vehicle that the driver or any passenger in the vehicle may be a
program participant.
2.Authorizes an emergency responder at the scene of the
accident or emergency to search the glove compartment of the vehicle for a
yellow program envelope described in subsection B of this section.
D.An emergency responder may use the information
contained in the yellow program envelope for the following purposes:
1.To identify a program participant.
2.To ascertain whether the program participant has a
medical condition that may impede communications with the emergency responder.
3.To communicate with the program participant's
emergency contacts about the location and general condition of the program
participant.
4.To consider the program participant's current
medications and preexisting medical conditions when emergency medical treatment
is administered for any injury the participant suffers.
E.An emergency responder is not liable for any civil
damages as a result of any acts or omissions that do not amount to wilful
misconduct or gross negligence in response to incomplete, incorrect or outdated
information provided on any health information card if the responder acted in
good faith in rendering care to a program participant at the scene of a motor
vehicle accident or emergency.
F.An emergency responder is not liable for damage to the
program participant's vehicle when obtaining information if the program
participant is unresponsive.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Emergency responder" means municipal,
county or State law enforcement officers, firefighters or emergency medical
services personnel.
2."Program participant" means an individual
who participates in the program established by this section. END_STATUTE

