







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; correction of budget errors







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2293









Introduced by
Representatives
  Boyer, Borrelli, Senator Begay: Representatives Finchem, Mitchell, Rios,
  Senators Allen S, Bradley





AN ACT

amending section
15915, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-915, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-915.Correction of state aid or budget limit errors; definition
A.If the superintendent of public instruction
determines that the calculation of state aid for a school district or charter
school or the calculation of the school district's or charter school's budget
limits within the previous three years
did during the current
year does not conform with statutory requirements, the superintendent
shall require correction of the errors as follows:
1.Corrections may be made in the current year or in
the budget year, except that in case of hardship to the school district, the
superintendent may approve corrections partly in one year and partly in the
year after that year.
2.Errors in the calculation of state aid shall be
corrected by increasing or decreasing the state aid to the school district or
charter school in the year or years in which the correction is made.
3.Errors in the calculation of the school
district's or charter school's budget limits shall be corrected at a public
hearing by requiring the governing board to reduce or by allowing it to
increase its budget by the amount of the correction to be made that
year.Overbudgeting errors corrected as provided in this paragraph
are exempt from section 15905, subsections L and M. Not later than
three days after the hearing and correction, the budget as revised shall be
submitted electronically to the superintendent of public instruction.
This paragraph shall not be construed to require a decrease in state aid not
otherwise required by paragraph 2 of this subsection.
B.Subject to the review by the joint legislative
budget committee, the superintendent of public instruction shall adjust state
aid for a school district in the current year if the governing board of a
school district requests the recalculation of state aid for a prior year due to
a change in assessed valuation that occurred as the result of a judgment in
accordance with section 4216213.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a
school district or charter school may not make upward revisions to its average
daily membership counts for a particular school year after June 30 of the
subsequent school year.
D.For the purposes of this section, "state
aid":
1.For school districts means state aid as
determined in section 15971 and additional state aid as determined in
section 15972.
2.For charter schools means state aid as determined
in section 15185. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
This act is effective from and after June 30, 2019.

