







REFERENCE TITLE: electronic benefit transfers;
  prohibitions; violations







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2261









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee, Borrelli, Coleman, Fann: Allen J, Carter, Petersen, Rios,
  Weninger





AN ACT

Amending sections
4246, 5116 and 46297, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to electronic benefit transfer cards.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 4-246, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE4-246.Violation; classification
A.A person violating any provision of this title is
guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor unless another classification is prescribed.
B.A person violating section 4242.01, subsection A or section
4244, paragraph 9, 14, 34, 42 or 44 is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
C.A person violating section 4229,
subsection B, or section
4244, paragraph 31 is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
D.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, the court may suspend the privilege to drive of a person who is under eighteen years of age for a
period of up to one hundred eighty days on receiving the record of the person's
first conviction for a violation of section 4244, paragraph 9.
E.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, a person who is convicted of a violation of section 4244, paragraph
42 shall pay a fine of at least five hundred dollars.
F.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, a person who is convicted of a violation of section 4241,
subsection L, M or N shall pay a fine of at least two hundred fifty dollars.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 5-116, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-116.Prohibition of automatic teller machine or pointofsale
terminal that accepts electronic benefit transfer cards on premises; penalties;
violation; classification
A.It is unlawful for a permittee, licensee or
facility for commercial horse racing or dog racing licensed pursuant to this
title to operate on the licensed premises an automatic teller machine or a
pointofsale terminal that accepts electronic benefit transfer
cards issued pursuant to title 46, chapter 2, article 5 or that processes
electronic benefit transfer card transactions.
B.On or before February 1, 2014, a permittee,
licensee or facility for commercial horse racing or dog racing licensed
pursuant to this title shall disable the ability of every automatic teller
machine and pointofsale terminal operated on the premises to
accept the electronic benefit transfer card or process an electronic benefit
transfer card transaction.
C.Failure to comply with this section is a license
violation subject to licensing action.The commission shall ensure
compliance with the requirements of this section and enforce the continued
prohibition on the use of electronic benefit transfer cards.
D.A person
who violates subsection A of this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
46-297, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-297.Electronic benefit transfers; prohibitions; penalties;
violation; classification; definitions
A.A head of
household who receives cash assistance pursuant to this section, or on behalf
of another person, and any person authorized by the head of household shall not
conduct an electronic benefit transfer card
transaction at any of the following:
1.A liquor store as defined in this section.
2.A commercial horse racing or dog racing facility
as defined in section 5101.
3.A casino, gambling casino or gaming establishment
or a gaming facility located on Indian lands pursuant to section 5601.02.
4.An adult oriented entertainment establishment.
5.A medical
marijuana dispensary.
B.It is unlawful for an adult oriented
entertainment establishment to operate on the licensed or permitted premises an
automatic teller machine or a pointofsale terminal that accepts
electronic benefit transfer cards issued under this title or that processes
electronic benefit transfer card
transactions.A violation of this subsection is a permit or license violation.A municipality that licenses or regulates adult
oriented entertainment establishments shall do all of the following:
1.Ensure that
on or before February 1, 2014 all adult oriented entertainment establishments
in the municipality's jurisdiction disable the ability of automatic teller
machines and pointofsale terminals operated on the business's
premises to accept the electronic benefit transfer card or process an
electronic benefit transfer card transaction.
2.Enforce the
continued prohibition on the use of the electronic benefit transfer card.
3.Enact
ordinances necessary to ensure compliance with this section.
C.The department shall notify electronic benefit
transfer card recipients of the restrictions prescribed in subsection A of this
section.
D.An adult
oriented entertainment establishment that violates this section is subject to
licensing or permit action.
D.A person
who violates subsection A or B of this section is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Adult oriented entertainment
establishment" means an entertainment business at which performers disrobe
or perform in an unclothed state.
2.Casino, gambling casino and gaming establishment
do not include either of the following:
(a)A grocery store that sells groceries, including
staple foods, and that is located in the same building or complex as a casino,
gambling casino or gaming establishment.
(b)Any other business that offers gambling or
gaming activities incidental to the principal purpose of the business.
3."Electronic benefit transfer card
transaction" means the use of a credit or debit card service, automated
teller machine or pointofsale terminal or access to an online
system for the withdrawal of cash assistance provided pursuant to this article
or for the processing of a payment for merchandise or a service from cash
assistance provided pursuant to this article.
4."Liquor" means the following substances
as defined in section 4101:
(a)Beer.
(b)Wine.
(c)Distilled spirits.
(d)Spirituous liquor.
5."Liquor store" means:
(a)A retail establishment that exclusively or
primarily sells liquor, but does not include a grocery store that sells both
liquor and groceries, including staple foods.
(b)An on-sale retailer as defined in section 4101
if the on-sale retailer sells liquor in the original container for consumption
off premises.
6."Staple food" means food in any of the
following categories except accessory food items such as coffee, tea, cocoa,
carbonated and uncarbonated drinks, candy, condiments and spices:
(a)Meat, poultry or fish.
(b)Bread or cereals.
(c)Vegetables or fruits.
(d)Dairy products. END_STATUTE

