







REFERENCE TITLE: autocycles; definition; class D licenses







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2248









Introduced by
Representative
  Gray





AN ACT

amending sections
28-101 and 28-3101, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to driver licenses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Alcohol"
means any substance containing any form of alcohol, including ethanol,
methanol, propynol and isopropynol.
2."Alcohol
concentration" if expressed as a percentage means either:
(a)The number of grams
of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of blood.
(b)The number of grams
of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of breath.
3."Allterrain
vehicle" means either of the following:
(a)A motor vehicle that
satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel.
(ii)Is fifty or fewer
inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand two hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on three or
more nonhighway tires.
(v)Is operated on a
public highway.
(b)A recreational
off-highway vehicle that satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway all-terrain travel.
(ii)Is sixtyfive
or fewer inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand eight hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on four or
more nonhighway tires.
4."Authorized
emergency vehicle" means any of the following:
(a)A fire department
vehicle.
(b)A police vehicle.
(c)An ambulance or
emergency vehicle of a municipal department or public service corporation that
is designated or authorized by the department or a local authority.
(d)Any other ambulance,
fire truck or rescue vehicle that is authorized by the department in its sole
discretion and that meets liability insurance requirements prescribed by the
department.
5."Autocycle"
means a threewheeled motorcycle on which the driver and passengers ride
in a completely enclosed
seating area that is equipped with a roll cage, safety belts for each occupant
and antilock brakes and that is designed to be controlled with a steering wheel
and pedals.
6."Aviation
fuel" means all flammable liquids composed of a mixture of selected
hydrocarbons expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively
and efficiently operating an internal combustion engine for use in an aircraft
but does not include fuel for jet or turbine powered aircraft.
7."Bicycle"
means a device, including a racing wheelchair, that is propelled by human power
and on which a person may ride and that has either:
(a)Two tandem wheels,
either of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
(b)Three wheels in
contact with the ground, any of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
8."Board" means the transportation board.
9."Bus" means
a motor vehicle designed for carrying sixteen or more passengers, including the
driver.
10."Business
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway if
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes within any six
hundred feet along the highway, including hotels, banks or office buildings,
railroad stations and public buildings that occupy at least three hundred feet
of frontage on one side or three hundred feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
11."Combination of
vehicles" means a truck or truck tractor and semitrailer and any trailer
that it tows but does not include a forklift designed for the purpose of
loading or unloading the truck, trailer or semitrailer.
12."Controlled
substance" means a substance so classified under section 102(6) of the
controlled substances act (21 United States Code section 802(6)) and includes
all substances listed in schedules I through V of 21 Code of Federal
Regulations part 1308.
13."Conviction"
means:
(a)An
unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a person violated or
failed to comply with the law in a court of original jurisdiction or by an
authorized administrative tribunal.
(b)An unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person's appearance in court.
(c)A plea of guilty or
no contest accepted by the court.
(d)The payment of a
fine or court costs.
14."County
highway" means a public road that is constructed and maintained by a
county.
15."Dealer"
means a person who is engaged in the business of buying, selling or exchanging
motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers and who has an established place of
business.
16."Department"
means the department of transportation acting directly or through its duly
authorized officers and agents.
17."Digital
network or software application" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 289551.
18."Director"
means the director of the department of transportation.
19."Drive"
means to operate or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
20."Driver"
means a person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
21."Driver
license" means a license that is issued by a state to an individual and
that authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle.
22."Electric
personal assistive mobility device" means a selfbalancing two
nontandem wheeled device with an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed of the device to fifteen miles per hour or less and that is
designed to transport only one person.
23."Farm"
means any lands primarily used for agriculture production.
24."Farm
tractor" means a motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing implements of husbandry.
25."Foreign
vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer that is brought
into this state other than in the ordinary course of business by or through a
manufacturer or dealer and that has not been registered in this state.
26."Golf
cart" means a motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, that has an unladen weight of less than one thousand eight
hundred pounds, that is designed to be and is operated at not more than twentyfive
miles per hour and that is designed to carry not more than four persons
including the driver.
27."Hazardous
material" means a material, and its mixtures or solutions, that the United
States department of transportation determines under 49 Code of Federal
Regulations is, or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
under 42 Code of Federal Regulations part 73 that is, capable of posing an
unreasonable risk to health, safety and property if transported in commerce and
that is required to be placarded or marked as required by the department's
safety rules prescribed pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
28."Implement of
husbandry" means a vehicle designed primarily for agricultural purposes
and used exclusively in the conduct of agricultural operations, including an
implement or vehicle whether selfpropelled or otherwise that meets both
of the following conditions:
(a)Is used solely for
agricultural purposes including the preparation or harvesting of cotton,
alfalfa, grains and other farm crops.
(b)Is only incidentally
operated or moved on a highway whether as a trailer or selfpropelled
unit.For the purposes of this subdivision, "incidentally
operated or moved on a highway" means travel between a farm and another
part of the same farm, from one farm to another farm or between a farm and a
place of repair, supply or storage.
29."Limousine"
means a motor vehicle providing prearranged ground transportation service for
an individual passenger, or a group of passengers, that is arranged in advance
or is operated on a regular route or between specified points and includes
ground transportation under a contract or agreement for services that includes
a fixed rate or time and is provided in a motor vehicle with a seating capacity
not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
30."Livery
vehicle" means a motor vehicle that:
(a)Has a seating
capacity not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
(b)Provides passenger
services for a fare determined by a flat rate or flat hourly rate between
geographic zones or within a geographic area.
(c)Is available for
hire on an exclusive or shared ride basis.
(d)May do any of the
following:
(i)Operate on a regular
route or between specified places.
(ii)Offer prearranged
ground transportation service as defined in section 28141.
(iii)Offer on demand
ground transportation service pursuant to a contract with a public airport,
licensed business entity or organization.
31."Local
authority" means any county, municipal or other local board or body
exercising jurisdiction over highways under the constitution and laws of this
state.
32."Manufacturer"
means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing motor vehicles,
trailers or semitrailers.
33."Moped"
means a bicycle that is equipped with a helper motor if the vehicle has a
maximum piston displacement of fifty cubic centimeters or less, a brake
horsepower of one and onehalf or less and a maximum speed of twentyfive
miles per hour or less on a flat surface with less than a one percent grade.
34."Motor driven
cycle" means a motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a motor
that produces not more than five horsepower.
35."Motor
vehicle":
(a)Means either:
(i)A selfpropelled
vehicle.
(ii)For the purposes of
the laws relating to the imposition of a tax on motor vehicle fuel, a vehicle
that is operated on the highways of this state and that is propelled by the use
of motor vehicle fuel.
(b)Does not include a
motorized wheelchair, an electric personal assistive mobility device or a
motorized skateboard. For the purposes of this subdivision:
(i)"Motorized
skateboard" means a selfpropelled device that has a motor, a deck
on which a person may ride and at least two tandem wheels in contact with the
ground.
(ii)"Motorized
wheelchair" means a selfpropelled wheelchair that is used by a
person for mobility.
36."Motor vehicle
fuel" includes all products that are commonly or commercially known or
sold as gasoline, including casinghead gasoline, natural gasoline and all
flammable liquids, and that are composed of a mixture of selected hydrocarbons
expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively and
efficiently operating internal combustion engines. Motor vehicle fuel does not
include inflammable liquids that are specifically manufactured for racing motor
vehicles and that are distributed for and used by racing motor vehicles at a
racetrack, use fuel as defined in section 285601, aviation fuel, fuel
for jet or turbine powered aircraft or the mixture created at the interface of
two different substances being transported through a pipeline, commonly known
as transmix.
37."Motorcycle"
means a motor vehicle that has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
that is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground but excludes a tractor and a moped.
38."Motorized
quadricycle" means a self-propelled motor vehicle to which all of the
following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
self-propelled by an emission-free electric motor and may include pedals
operated by the passengers.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle seats at
least eight passengers, including the driver.
(d)The vehicle is
operable on a flat surface using solely the electric motor without assistance
from the pedals or passengers.
(e)The vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201.
(f)The vehicle is
licensed by the department of weights and
measures to operate as a limousine pursuant to section 289503.
(g)The vehicle is
manufactured by a motor vehicle manufacturer that is licensed pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title.
(h)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for lowspeed vehicles set forth in
federal motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations section sections 571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
39."Neighborhood
electric vehicle" means a selfpropelled electrically powered motor
vehicle to which all of the following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
emission free.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for low speed vehicles set forth in federal
motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations sections
571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
40."Nonresident"
means a person who is not a resident of this state as defined in section 282001.
41."Offroad
recreational motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel and that is not
operated on a public highway.Offroad recreational motor
vehicle does not mean a motor vehicle used for construction, building trade,
mining or agricultural purposes.
42."Operator"
means a person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway, who is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle on a highway or who is exercising control
over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
43."Owner"
means:
(a)A person who holds
the legal title of a vehicle.
(b)If a vehicle is the
subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease with the right of
purchase on performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an
immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, the
conditional vendee or lessee.
(c)If a mortgagor of a
vehicle is entitled to possession of the vehicle, the mortgagor.
44."Pedestrian"
means any person afoot.A person who uses an electric personal
assistive mobility device or a manual or motorized wheelchair is considered a
pedestrian unless the manual wheelchair qualifies as a bicycle.For
the purposes of this paragraph, "motorized wheelchair" means a selfpropelled
wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
45."Power
sweeper" means an implement, with or without motive power, that is only
incidentally operated or moved on a street or highway and that is designed for
the removal of debris, dirt, gravel, litter or sand whether by broom, vacuum or
regenerative air system from asphaltic concrete or cement concrete surfaces,
including parking lots, highways, streets and warehouses, and a vehicle on
which the implement is permanently mounted.
46."Public
transit" means the transportation of passengers on scheduled routes by
means of a conveyance on an individual passenger farepaying basis
excluding transportation by a sightseeing bus, school bus or taxi or a vehicle
not operated on a scheduled route basis.
47."Reconstructed
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been assembled or constructed largely by
means of essential parts, new or used, derived from vehicles or makes of
vehicles of various names, models and types or that, if originally otherwise
constructed, has been materially altered by the removal of essential parts or
by the addition or substitution of essential parts, new or used, derived from
other vehicles or makes of vehicles.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "essential parts" means integral and body parts, the
removal, alteration or substitution of which will tend to conceal the identity
or substantially alter the appearance of the vehicle.
48."Residence
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district if the property on the highway for a distance of
three hundred feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences
and buildings in use for business.
49."Rightofway"
when used within the context of the regulation of the movement of traffic on a
highway means the privilege of the immediate use of the
highway.Rightofway when used within the context of
the real property on which transportation facilities and appurtenances to the
facilities are constructed or maintained means the lands or interest in lands
within the rightofway boundaries.
50."School
bus" means a motor vehicle that is designed for carrying more than ten
passengers and that is either:
(a)Owned by any public
or governmental agency or other institution and operated for the transportation
of children to or from home or school on a regularly scheduled basis.
(b)Privately owned and
operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or from home or
school on a regularly scheduled basis.
51."Semitrailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that some part of its weight and
that of its load rests on or is carried by another vehicle. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 28601.
52."State"
means a state of the United States and the District of Columbia.
53."State
highway" means a state route or portion of a state route that is accepted
and designated by the board as a state highway and that is maintained by the
state.
54."State
route" means a rightofway whether actually used as a highway
or not that is designated by the board as a location for the construction of a
state highway.
55."Street"
or "highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way if a part of the way is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
56."Taxi"
means a motor vehicle that has a seating capacity not exceeding fifteen
passengers, including the driver, that is registered as a taxi in this state or
any other state, that provides passenger services and that:
(a)Does not primarily
operate on a regular route or between specified places.
(b)Offers local
transportation for a fare determined on the basis of the distance traveled or
prearranged ground transportation service as defined in section 28141
for a predetermined fare.
57."Traffic
survival school" means a school that offers educational sessions to
drivers who are required to attend and successfully complete educational
sessions pursuant to this title that are designed to improve the safety and
habits of drivers and that are approved by the department.
58."Trailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that no part of its weight rests
on the towing vehicle. A semitrailer equipped with an auxiliary front axle
commonly known as a dolly is deemed to be a trailer. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in section 28601.
59."Transportation
network company" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
60."Transportation
network company vehicle" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
61."Transportation
network service" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
62."Truck"
means a motor vehicle designed or used primarily for the carrying of property
other than the effects of the driver or passengers and includes a motor vehicle
to which has been added a box, a platform or other equipment for such carrying.
63."Truck
tractor" means a motor vehicle that is designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and that is not constructed to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load drawn.
64."Vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or property is or may be transported
or drawn on a public highway, excluding devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
65."Vehicle
transporter" means either:
(a)A
truck tractor capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer.
(b)A truck tractor with a stingersteered
fifth wheel capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer or a truck
tractor with a dolly mounted fifth wheel that is securely fastened to the truck
tractor at two or more points and that is capable of carrying a load and
drawing a semitrailer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3101.Driver license classes
A.Except as provided in subsections B and C of this
section and section 283102, the following driver license classes are valid:
1.Class A.A class A license is valid
for operating either of the following:
(a)A motor vehicle that tows a vehicle with a gross
vehicle weight rating of more than ten thousand pounds if the combined gross
vehicle weight rating is twentysix thousand one or more pounds.
(b)A vehicle that requires a class B, C or D
license.
2.Class B.A class B license is valid
for operating any of the following:
(a)A single motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight rating of twentysix thousand one or more pounds.
(b)A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of twentysix thousand one or more pounds that tows a vehicle with
a gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds or less.
(c)A vehicle that requires a class C or D license
for operation.
3.Class C.A class C license is valid
for operating any of the following:
(a)A single motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less.
(b)A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less that tows a vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds or less.
(c)A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less that tows a vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating of more than ten thousand pounds, if the combined
gross vehicle weight rating is less than twentysix thousand one pounds.
(d)A vehicle that is required to be placarded for
hazardous materials.
(e)A bus or school bus.
(f)A vehicle that requires a class D license for
operation.
4.Class D.A class D license is valid
for operating any of the following:
(a)A single motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less, including an autocycle.
(b)A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less that tows a vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds or less.
(c)A motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating of twentysix thousand pounds or less that tows a vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight rating of more than ten thousand pounds if the combined
gross vehicle weight rating is less than twentysix thousand one pounds.
(d)A motorized touring vehicle.For the
purposes of this subdivision, "motorized touring vehicle" means a
motor vehicle that is all of the following:
(i)Owned by a commercial entity.
(ii)Rented for use during a sightseeing tour that
is guided by an employee of the commercial entity that rents the motor vehicle.
(iii)Designed to travel with three wheels on the
ground.
(iv)Capable of a maximum speed of forty-five miles
per hour.
5.Class G.A class G license is valid
for operating a single motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of
twentysix thousand pounds or less.
6.Class M.A class M license is valid
for operating a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped but is not necessary
for operating an autocycle. For the purpose of licensing a driver, the
department may endorse a class M license classification on a valid class A, B,
C, D or G license.
B.A class A, B, C, D or G license is not valid for
operating a vehicle that requires a class M license or a vehicle that requires
a special endorsement unless the proper endorsement appears on the license.
C.A commercial driver license is not required to
operate a vehicle described in subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this
section if the vehicle has been issued a historic vehicle license plate
pursuant to section 282484 and the department provides in the vehicle
registration record both of the following:
1.That the vehicle is classified as a noncommercial
vehicle and may not be used as a commercial vehicle.
2.The vehicle's gross vehicle weight is entered as
zero. END_STATUTE

