







REFERENCE TITLE: temporary services employer; employees;
  rights







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2272









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Larkin: Clark, Espinoza, Fernandez, Hale, Rios,
  Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending title
23, chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 5; relating to
temporary employees.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 5, to read:
ARTICLE 5.TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE BILL OF RIGHTS
START_STATUTE23-581.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Temporary
services employer" has the same meaning prescribed in section
23-614.A temporary services employer does not include a
professional employer organization as defined in section 23-561.
2."Work
site employer" means any person, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company or other legally recognized entity that contracts with a
temporary services employer to obtain a temporary employee. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-582.Notices and disclosures to temporary employees; language;
hiring by telephone
A.A temporary services employer shall provide
each temporary employee with the following notices and disclosures on the date
of hire and each time an employee is placed in a new work assignment, including
renewed, extended or repeated work assignments for the same work site employer:
1.The name, telephone number, address and
operating hours of the temporary services employer and the name and telephone
number of the agent facilitating the placement. If the temporary services
employer does not maintain a physical business address, walk-in office,
dispatch location or day-labor hall, the temporary services employer shall
provide a telephone number at which and the hours that an agent of the
temporary services employer may be contacted.
2.The name, telephone number and address of the
work site employer.
3.The duration and hours of the work assignment,
including the start date, the anticipated end date, the daily start and end
times, the days on which the assigned work will be performed and if there is
any possibility of overtime work or extension of the work assignment past the
anticipated end date.
4.The wage rates and compensation, including any
benefits to be paid for the work assignment, the overtime pay rate and the
designated payday.
5.A detailed description of the work assignment
and if the temporary EMPLOYEE must have or receive special training or
licensing, as required by law, to perform the assigned work and any requirement
for special attire, accessories, tools or safety equipment.
6.A complete and accurate description of any
work site hazards that the temporary employee may become exposed to, or the
name and telephone number of a person at the work site who can provide a
complete and accurate description of any work site hazards.
7.A list of protective equipment, including
personal protective equipment that the temporary services employer or work site
employer will provide at no cost to the temporary employee.
8.A statement of the temporary employee's right
to workers' compensation benefits and the name and telephone number of the
temporary services employer's or work site employer's insurance carrier, unless
the temporary services employer or work site employer is a self-insured
employer.
9.A statement that the temporary services
employer is considered the employer of the temporary employee pursuant to
section 23-614, subsection E for the purposes of unemployment insurance.
10.If the
temporary services employer or the work site employer provides transportation
to the work site, The cost of the transportation, if any, and if the work site
is accessible by public or personal transportation.
11.If the
temporary services employer or the work site employer provides meals and the
cost of the meals, if any.
B.The notices and disclosures required in this
section shall be written in English and any other languages that are generally
used in the area in which The temporary services employer or the work site
employer is located.The temporary services employer shall maintain
copies of all the notices and disclosures required by this section for a period
of one year and shall make available the notices and disclosures for inspection
by any affected temporary employee, without charge, within ten days after the
request.
C.This section does not prohibit a temporary
services employer from hiring a temporary employee by telephone.Any
telephone message must comply with the notice and disclosure requirements in
this section.The temporary services employer shall include the
notices and disclosures with the temporary employee's first payment of wages or
before the date of the first payment of wages if requested by the temporary
employee. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-583.Compensation; transportation reimbursement; itemized
statement; earnings summary
A.A temporary employee shall start to receive
compensation at the time the employee is selected to fill a work assignment.
B.A temporary employee may not be paid less than
the minimum wage as provided by chapter 2, article 8 of this title.
c.A temporary services employer shall:
1.Reimburse each temporary employee who uses the
employee's own vehicle for transportation to a work site for the fair market
value of the use, including the value of transporting other employees to the
work site in the vehicle.
2.At the time of each payment of wages, provide
each temporary employee a written itemized statement showing the dates worked,
hours worked on each date, wage rate, total amount of wages paid and each
deduction made from the wages.The name, telephone number and
address of the temporary services employer shall be printed on each page of the
statement.
3.Provide each temporary employee with an annual
earnings summary within a reasonable period of time after the end of the
preceding calendar year, but not later than February 1. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-584.Prohibited charges and deductions for items and services 
A.A temporary services employer or work site
employer may not charge a temporary employee for any of the following items or
services:
1.Registering with the temporary services
employer or the cost of procuring employment.
2.Safety equipment, clothing, tools,
accessories, training or any other items required by the nature of the work
either by law, by custom or as a requirement of the work site employer.
3.Directly or indirectly cashing a temporary
employee's check.
4.If the temporary services employer provides a
meal or transportation to the work site, more than the actual cost of providing
the meal or transportation.The purchase of a meal or transportation
may not be a condition of employment.
B.For items, other than those provided in
subsection A of this section, that the temporary services employer makes
available for purchase, the temporary services employer may not charge the
temporary employee more than the actual cost of the items to the labor pool, or
fair market value, whichever is less.
C.A temporary services employer may charge the
temporary employee the fair market value of items temporarily provided to the
temporary employee by the temporary services employer if the temporary employee
wilfully fails to return the items to the temporary services
employer.The temporary services employer may not charge the temporary
employee for items damaged through ordinary use or lost through no fault of the
temporary employee. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-585.Prohibited practices; civil penalty; assessment
A.Only twenty percent of a work site employer's
employees may be temporary employees.
B.A temporary services employer or a work site
employer may not discharge, reduce the compensation of or otherwise
discriminate against any temporary employee for making a complaint of a
violation of this article or for using any civil remedies to enforce the
temporary employee's rights.
C.Any person, temporary services employer or
work site employer who violates this article is subject to a civil penalty not
to exceed five hundred dollars per temporary employee for each day the
violation continues.
D.Any penalties for violations of this article
shall be assessed against the temporary services employer or the work site
employer based on the commensurate level of control of the work site and each
party's responsibility for compliance with the applicable violation. END_STATUTE

