







REFERENCE TITLE: constables; duties; training; discipline







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2288









Introduced by
Representative
  Bowers





AN ACT

amending sections
22131 and 22137, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
constables.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 22-131, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-131.Constables; powers and duties; prohibited acts
A.Constables shall attend the courts of justices of
the peace within their precincts when required, and within their counties
execute, serve and return all processes, warrants and notices directed or
delivered to them by a justice of the peace of the county or by competent
authority.Constables,
within their counties, shall serve and return all criminal summonses and
subpoenas that are directed or delivered to them by a justice of the peace of
the county or by competent authority. In addition to any other
provision of law these duties may be enforced by the presiding judge of the
superior court in the county, including the use of the power of contempt.
B.Constables shall attend the training prescribed
in section 22137.
C.Constables, with the consent of and at salaries
fixed by the board of supervisors, may appoint deputies who are certified
pursuant to section 411822, subsection A, paragraph 3, stenographers, clerks
and assistants necessary to conduct the affairs of their
offices.The appointments shall be in writing.
D.The provisions of law relating to sheriffs, as
far as applicable, shall govern the powers, duties and liabilities of
constables.
E.A constable who is duly elected or who is
appointed by the board of supervisors has the authority of a peace officer only
in the performance of the constable's official duties.
F.A constable may execute, serve and return
processes and notices as prescribed in subsection A of this section within any
precinct in another county if that precinct adjoins the precinct in which the
constable was elected or appointed.
G.A constable is prohibited from engaging in any
act as a private process server outside of the constable's elected or appointed
duties.A constable shall not own an interest in any entity that operates a private process serving business. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 22-137, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE22-137.Constable ethics standards and training board; powers and
duties; judicial review; constable training; definition
A.The constable ethics standards and training board
shall:
1.Adopt rules for the administration and conduct of
the board, including meeting times, meeting places and matters to be placed on
the agenda of each meeting, and for the distribution of monies in the constable
ethics standards and training fund pursuant to section 22138.
2.Adopt a code of conduct for constables and adopt
rules to enforce the code of conduct.
3.Establish procedures for conducting confidential
investigations and holding hearings.
4.Hear and investigate written complaints from any
person involving a constable's ethical conduct.
5.Remedy a constable's inappropriate behavior by:
(a)Mediating.
(b)Issuing warnings, reprimands or admonishments.
(c)Instructing constables to take a particular
action or to take educational classes.
(d)Urging a constable to retire from office.
(e)Suspending a constable from
performing the constable's duties, with or without pay.
B.The board may:
1.Employ an executive director and other staff
necessary to fulfill the powers and duties of the board.
2.Enter into contracts and interagency agreements
to carry out its powers and duties.
3.Certify organizations to provide training and
support programs for constables.
4.Provide support grants to constables for local or
statewide training programs.
5.Take
and hear evidence, administer oaths and affirmations and compel by subpoena the
attendance of witnesses, including
constables, and the production of books, papers, records,
documents and other information relating to any investigation or hearing.
C.If the
board is not satisfied with the remedies prescribed in subsection A, paragraph
5 of this section, the board shall submit a report to the county attorney's
office in the county in which the conduct at issue occurred.
C.If the
board determines that a constable has committed a criminal act, the board shall
refer the investigation to the county attorney's office in the county in which
the conduct at issue occurred. The board shall submit the investigation's
findings to the county attorney. If the county attorney determines that a
crime has not occurred or does not file a criminal complaint against the
constable, the board shall adjudicate the complaint pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 5 of this section.
D.A
constable may seek judicial review of a final order suspending the constable in
the superior court in the county in which the constable is elected or
appointed. Judicial review shall be conducted pursuant to title 12, chapter 7,
article6. Judicial review must be commenced pursuant to section 12-904.
D.E.The Arizona peace
officer standards and training board shall approve a mandatory basic training
course for newly elected constables covering topics including civil and
criminal process, conflict resolution and firearm safety. Constables must
attend the mandatory training course within six months after
election.In subsequent years, constables must annually attend at
least sixteen hours of additional training approved by the Arizona peace
officer standards and training board. The constable ethics standards and
training board may approve additional training courses for constables. The
constable ethics standards and training fund established by section 22138
may be used for constable training. Copies of certificates of completion of
the constable training shall be forwarded to the constable ethics standards and
training board within thirty days after completion.
E.F.This section does
not:
1.Create
a cause of action or a right to bring an action against the board.
2.Preclude
a prosecuting agency from filing charges against a constable.
G.for the
purposes of this section, "constable" includes a deputy constable who
is appointed, employed or authorized by the county board of supervisors.
END_STATUTE

