







REFERENCE TITLE: radiologic technology;
  out-of-state licensed practitioners







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2225









Introduced by
Representative
  Lawrence





AN ACT

Amending section
322811, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to radiologic technology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-2811, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2811.Prohibitions and limitations; exceptions
A.No person may use ionizing radiation on a human
being unless the person is a licensed practitioner or the holder of a
certificate as provided in this chapter.
B.A person holding a certificate may use ionizing
radiation on human beings only for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes while
operating in each particular case at the direction of a licensed practitioner who is licensed in this state or any state,
territory or district of the United States. The application of
ionizing radiation and the direction to apply ionizing radiation are limited to
those persons or parts of the human body specified in the law under which the
practitioner is licensed.The provisions of the technologist's
certificate govern the extent of application of ionizing radiation.
C.Nothing in the
provisions of this chapter relating to technologists shall be
construed to limit, enlarge or affect in any respect the practice of their
respective professions by duly licensed practitioners.
D.The requirement of a certificate shall not apply
to:
1.A hospital resident specializing in radiology who
is not a licensed practitioner in this state or a student enrolled in and
attending a school or college of medicine, osteopathy, podiatry, dentistry, naturopathy naturopathic medicine, chiropractic or
radiologic technology who applies ionizing radiation to a human being while
under the specific direction of a licensed practitioner.
2.A person engaged in performing the duties of a
technologist in such that person's employment by an
agency, bureau or division of the government of the United States.
3.Dental hygienists licensed in the state of
Arizona and dental assistants holding a valid certificate in dental radiology
from a course approved by the Arizona
state board of dental examiners.
4.Persons providing assistance during an ionizing
radiation procedure, apart from such procedures conducted in a health care
institution, under the direction of a person licensed for the use of an
ionizing radiation machine.
E.The
provisions of Subsection B of this section do does
not apply to ionizing radiation ordered by a licensed
practitioner for other than diagnostic or therapeutic purposes pursuant to
section 132505, subsectionE. END_STATUTE

