







REFERENCE TITLE: racial impact statements; legislative
  council







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2285









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Larkin: Fernandez, Hale, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending Title
41, chapter 8, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-1306;
relating to the legislature.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
41, chapter 8, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 41-1306, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1306.Racial impact statements; definition
A.On the written request of a member of the legislature,
the executive director of the legislative council shall prepare a racial impact
statement analyzing how any distinct racial or ethnic group would likely be
affected by the provisions of a bill or other measure introduced in the current
regular or special session of the legislature.
B.The racial impact statement shall include an analysis
of the likely disparate impact that the bill or other measure would have on any
distinct racial or ethnic group in the following areas:
1.Criminal justice.
2.Public Health.
3.Education.
4.Public welfare.
5.Consumer protection.
6.Voting rights.
7.Child protective services.
8.Housing.
C.If the executive director receives a written request
for a racial impact statement, the executive director shall immediately notify
the chief clerk of the house of representatives and the secretary of the senate
that the request has been made. A bill or other measure for which a racial
impact statement has been requested pursuant to this section may not be
scheduled for a third or final reading vote until the racial impact statement
has been issued. The executive director shall issue the racial impact
statement to the requesting member and send a copy to the chief clerk and the
secretary not later than fifteen calendar days after the request was made.
D.For the purposes of this section, "distinct
racial or ethnic group" means any category of race or ethnic origin that
is identified by the United States census bureau for the most recent United
States decennial census.END_STATUTE

