






REFERENCE TITLE: firearms; state preemption; independent
  contractors







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2220









Introduced by
Representatives
  Kern, Leach: Allen J, Barton, Borrelli, Boyer, Finchem, Lawrence, Mitchell,
  Norgaard, Olson, Petersen, Rivero, Shope, Thorpe, Weninger





AN ACT

amending section
133108, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to firearms.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3108, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3108.Firearms regulated by state; state preemption; violation;
classification; definition
A.Except as provided in subsection G of this
section, a political subdivision of this state shall not enact any ordinance,
rule or tax relating to the transportation, possession, carrying, sale,
transfer, purchase, acquisition, gift, devise, storage, licensing,
registration, discharge or use of firearms or ammunition or any firearm or
ammunition components or related accessories in this state.
B.A political subdivision of this state shall not
require the licensing or registration of firearms or ammunition or any firearm
or ammunition components or related accessories or prohibit the ownership,
purchase, sale or transfer of firearms or ammunition or any firearm or
ammunition components, or related accessories.
C.A political subdivision of this state shall not
require or maintain a record in any form, whether permanent or temporary,
including a list, log or database, of any of the following:
1.Any identifying information of a person who
leaves a weapon in temporary storage at any public establishment or public
event, except that the operator of the establishment or the sponsor of the
event may require that a person provide a government issued identification or a
reasonable copy of a government issued identification for the purpose of
establishing ownership of the weapon. The operator or sponsor shall store any
provided identification with the weapon and shall return the identification to
the person when the weapon is retrieved.The operator or sponsor
shall not retain records or copies of any identification provided pursuant to
this paragraph after the weapon is retrieved.
2.Except in the course of a law enforcement
investigation, any identifying information of a person who owns, possesses,
purchases, sells or transfers a firearm.
3.The description, including the serial number, of
a weapon that is left in temporary storage at any public establishment or
public event.
D.A
political subdivision of this state shall not enact any rule or ordinance that
relates to firearms and is more prohibitive than or that has a penalty that is
greater than any state law penalty.A political subdivision's rule
or ordinance that relates to firearms and that is inconsistent with or more
restrictive than state law, whether enacted before or after July 29, 2010, is
null and void.
E.A political subdivision of this state shall not
enact any ordinance, rule or regulation limiting the lawful taking of wildlife
during an open season established by the Arizona game and fish commission
unless the ordinance, rule or regulation is consistent with title 17 and rules
and orders adopted by the Arizona game and fish commission. This subsection
does not prevent a political subdivision from adopting an ordinance or rule
restricting the discharge of a firearm within one-fourth mile of an occupied
structure without the consent of the owner or occupant of the structure. For
the purposes of this subsection:
1."Occupied structure" means any building
in which, at the time of the firearm's discharge, a reasonable person from the
location where a firearm is discharged would expect a person to be present.
2."Take" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 17101.
F.This state, any agency or political subdivision
of this state and any law enforcement agency in this state shall not facilitate
the destruction of a firearm or purchase or otherwise acquire a firearm for the
purpose of destroying the firearm except as authorized by section 133105
or 17240.
G.This section does not prohibit a political
subdivision of this state from enacting and enforcing any ordinance or rule
pursuant to state law or relating to any of the following:
1.Imposing any privilege or use tax on the retail
sale, lease or rental of, or the gross proceeds or gross income from the sale,
lease or rental of, firearms or ammunition or any firearm or ammunition
components at a rate that applies generally to other items of tangible personal
property.
2.Prohibiting a minor who is unaccompanied by a
parent, grandparent or guardian or a certified hunter safety instructor or
certified firearms safety instructor acting with the consent of the minor's
parent, grandparent or guardian from knowingly possessing or carrying on the
minor's person, within the minor's immediate control or in or on a means of
transportation a firearm in any place that is open to the public or on any
street or highway or on any private property except private property that is
owned or leased by the minor or the minor's parent, grandparent or guardian.
Any ordinance or rule that is adopted pursuant to this paragraph shall not
apply to a minor who is fourteen, fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years of age
and who is engaged in any of the following:
(a)Lawful hunting or shooting events or
marksmanship practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge
of a firearm is not prohibited.
(b)Lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm for
the purpose of lawful hunting.
(c)Lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm for
the purpose of attending shooting events or marksmanship practice at established
ranges or other areas where the discharge of a firearm is not prohibited.
(d)Any activity that is related to the production
of crops, livestock, poultry, livestock products, poultry products or ratites
or storage of agricultural commodities.
3.The regulation of commercial land and structures,
including a business relating to firearms or ammunition or their components or
a commercial shooting range in the same manner as other commercial businesses.
Notwithstanding any other law, this paragraph does not:
(a)Authorize a political subdivision to regulate
the sale or transfer of firearms on property it owns, leases, operates or
controls in a manner that is different than or inconsistent with state
law.For the purposes of this subdivision, a use permit or other
contract that provides for the use of property owned, leased, operated or
controlled by a political subdivision shall not be considered a sale,
conveyance or disposition of property.
(b)Authorize a political subdivision through a
zoning ordinance to prohibit or otherwise regulate the otherwise lawful
discharge of a firearm or maintenance or improvements directly related to the
discharge, on a private
lot or parcel of land that is not open to the public on a commercial or
membership basis.
(c)Authorize a political subdivision to regulate
the otherwise lawful discharge of a firearm or maintenance or improvements
directly related to the discharge, on
land that is used for agriculture or other noncommercial purposes.
4.Regulating employees or independent contractors of the political
subdivision who are acting within the course and scope of their employment or
contract.
5.Limiting or prohibiting
the discharge of firearms in parks and preserves except:
(a)As allowed pursuant to
chapter 4 of this title.
(b)On a properly
supervised range as defined in section 133107.
(c)In an area approved
as a hunting area by the Arizona game and fish
department. Any such area may be closed when deemed unsafe by the director of
the Arizona game and fish department.
(d)To control nuisance
wildlife by permit from the Arizona game and fish department or the United
States fish and wildlife service.
(e)By special permit of
the chief law enforcement officer of the political subdivision.
(f)As required by an
animal control officer in performing duties specified in section 9499.04
and title 11, chapter 7, article 6.
(g)In selfdefense or defense of another
person against an animal attack if a reasonable person would believe that
deadly physical force against the animal is immediately necessary and
reasonable under the circumstances to protect oneself or the other person.
H.A violation of any ordinance established pursuant
to subsection G, paragraph 5 of this section is a class 2 misdemeanor unless
the political subdivision designates a lesser classification by ordinance.
I.For the purposes of this section, "political
subdivision" includes a political subdivision acting in any capacity,
including under police power, in a proprietary capacity or otherwise. END_STATUTE

