







REFERENCE TITLE: death penalty; repeal.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2276









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Plumlee: Clark, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Hale, Rios,
  Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending sections
12120.21, 13701, 13706 and 13751, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing sections 13752, 13753, 13754, 13755,
13756, 13757, 13758 and 13759, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 131105, 133841, 133859.02, 133870,
133906 and 133961, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing title 13,
chapter 38, article 17, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 134031,
134033, 134040 and 134041, Arizona Revised Statutes;
repealing section 134042, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 134234,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 134234.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 21102, 31240, 31-403, 31445
and 411013, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the repeal of the
death penalty.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
12-120.21, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-120.21.Jurisdiction and venue
A.The court of appeals
shall have:
1.Appellate
jurisdiction in all actions and proceedings originating in or permitted by law
to be appealed from the superior court,
except criminal actions involving crimes for which a sentence of death has
actually been imposed.
2.Jurisdiction to issue
writs of certiorari to review the lawfulness of awards of the industrial
commission and to enter judgment affirming or setting aside the awards.
3.Jurisdiction to issue
injunctions and other writs and orders necessary and proper to the complete
exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
4.Jurisdiction to hear
and determine petitions for special actions brought pursuant to the Arizona rules of procedure
for special actions, without regard to its appellate jurisdiction.
B.A case or appeal of
which the court of appeals has jurisdiction in an action or proceeding
originating in or permitted by law to be appealed from the superior court in a
county shall be brought or filed in the division which that contains that county.An application for a
writ of certiorari to review the lawfulness of an award of the industrial
commission shall be brought in division 1. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-701.Sentence of imprisonment for felony; presentence report;
aggravating and mitigating factors; consecutive terms of imprisonment;
definition
A.A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be
a definite term of years and the person sentenced, unless otherwise provided by
law, shall be committed to the custody of the state department of corrections.
B.No prisoner may be transferred to the custody of
the state department of corrections without a certified copy of the judgment
and sentence, signed by the sentencing judge, and a copy of a recent
presentence investigation report unless the court has waived preparation of the
report.
C.The minimum or maximum term imposed pursuant to
section 13702, 13703, 13704, 13705, 13708,
13710, 131406, 133212 or 133419 may be imposed only
if one or more of the circumstances alleged to be in aggravation of the crime
are found to be true by the trier of fact beyond a reasonable doubt or are
admitted by the defendant, except that an alleged aggravating circumstance
under subsection D, paragraph 11 of this section shall be found to be true by
the court, or in mitigation of the crime are found to be true by the court, on
any evidence or information introduced or submitted to the court or the trier
of fact before sentencing or any evidence presented at trial, and factual
findings and reasons in support of such findings are set forth on the record at
the time of sentencing.
D.For the purpose of determining the sentence
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the trier of fact shall determine and
the court shall consider the following aggravating circumstances, except that
the court shall determine an aggravating circumstance under paragraph 11 of
this subsection:
1.Infliction or threatened infliction of serious
physical injury, except if this circumstance is an essential element of the
offense of conviction or has been utilized to enhance the range of punishment
under section 13704.
2.Use, threatened use or possession of a deadly
weapon or dangerous instrument during the commission of the crime, except if
this circumstance is an essential element of the offense of conviction or has
been utilized to enhance the range of punishment under section 13704.
3.If the offense involves the taking of or damage
to property, the value of the property taken or damaged.
4.Presence of an accomplice.
5.Especially heinous,
cruel or depraved manner in which the offense was committed.
6.The defendant
committed the offense as consideration for the receipt, or in the expectation
of the receipt, of anything of pecuniary value.
7.The defendant
procured the commission of the offense by payment, or promise of payment, of
anything of pecuniary value.
8.At the time of the
commission of the offense, the defendant was a public servant and the offense
involved conduct directly related to the defendant's office or employment.
9.The victim or, if the
victim has died as a result of the conduct of the defendant, the victim's
immediate family suffered physical, emotional or financial harm.
10.During the course of the commission of the
offense, the death of an unborn child at any stage of its development occurred.
11.The defendant was previously convicted of a
felony within the ten years immediately preceding the date of the offense. A
conviction outside the jurisdiction of this state for an offense that if
committed in this state would be punishable as a felony is a felony conviction
for the purposes of this paragraph.
12.The defendant was wearing body armor as defined
in section 133116.
13.The victim of the offense is at least sixtyfive
years of age or is a person with a disability as defined in section 38492,
subsectionB.
14.The defendant was appointed pursuant to title 14
as a fiduciary and the offense involved conduct directly related to the
defendant's duties to the victim as fiduciary.
15.Evidence that the defendant committed the crime
out of malice toward a victim because of the victim's identity in a group
listed in section 411750, subsection A, paragraph 3 or because of the
defendant's perception of the victim's identity in a group listed in section 411750,
subsection A, paragraph 3.
16.The defendant was convicted of a violation of
section 131102, section 131103, section 131104, subsection
A, paragraph 3 or section 131204, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 arising
from an act that was committed while driving a motor vehicle and the
defendant's alcohol concentration at the time of committing the offense was
0.15 or more. For the purposes of this paragraph, "alcohol
concentration" has the same meaning prescribed in section 28101.
17.Lying in wait for the victim or ambushing the
victim during the commission of any felony.
18.The offense was committed in the presence of a
child and any of the circumstances exists that are set forth in section 133601,
subsection A.
19.The offense was committed in retaliation for a
victim either reporting criminal activity or being involved in an organization,
other than a law enforcement agency, that is established for the purpose of
reporting or preventing criminal activity.
20.The defendant was impersonating a peace officer
as defined in section 1215.
21.The defendant was in violation of 8 United
States Code section 1323, 1324, 1325, 1326 or 1328 at the time of the
commission of the offense.
22.The defendant used a remote stun gun or an
authorized remote stun gun in the commission of the offense. For the purposes
of this paragraph:
(a)"Authorized remote stun gun" means a
remote stun gun that has all of the following:
(i)An electrical discharge that is less than one
hundred thousand volts and less than nine joules of energy per pulse.
(ii)A serial or identification number on all
projectiles that are discharged from the remote stun gun.
(iii)An identification and tracking system that, on
deployment of remote electrodes, disperses coded material that is traceable to
the purchaser through records that are kept by the manufacturer on all remote
stun guns and all individual cartridges sold.
(iv)A training program that is offered by the
manufacturer.
(b)"Remote stun gun" means an electronic
device that emits an electrical charge and that is designed and primarily
employed to incapacitate a person or animal either through contact with
electrodes on the device itself or remotely through wired probes that are
attached to the device or through a spark, plasma, ionization or other
conductive means emitting from the device.
23.During or immediately following the commission
of the offense, the defendant committed a violation of section 28661, 28662
or 28663.
24.The defendant was convicted of a violation of
section 131307 or 131308 and the defendant recruited, enticed or
obtained the victim from a shelter that is designed to serve runaway youth,
foster children, homeless persons or victims of human trafficking, domestic
violence or sexual assault.
25.Any other factor that the state alleges is
relevant to the defendant's character or background or to the nature or
circumstances of the crime.
E.For the purpose of determining the sentence
pursuant to subsection C of this section, the court shall consider the
following mitigating circumstances:
1.The age of the defendant.
2.The defendant's capacity to appreciate the
wrongfulness of the defendant's conduct or to conform the defendant's conduct
to the requirements of law was significantly impaired, but not so impaired as
to constitute a defense to prosecution.
3.The defendant was under unusual or substantial
duress, although not to a degree that would constitute a defense to
prosecution.
4.The degree of the defendant's participation in
the crime was minor, although not so minor as to constitute a defense to
prosecution.
5.During or immediately following the commission of
the offense, the defendant complied with all duties imposed under sections 28661,
28662 and 28663.
6.Any other factor that is relevant to the
defendant's character or background or to the nature or circumstances of the
crime and that the court finds to be mitigating.
F.If the trier of fact finds at least one
aggravating circumstance, the trial court may find by a preponderance of the
evidence additional aggravating circumstances. In determining what sentence to
impose, the court shall take into account the amount of aggravating
circumstances and whether the amount of mitigating circumstances is
sufficiently substantial to justify the lesser term. If the trier of fact
finds aggravating circumstances and the court does not find any mitigating
circumstances, the court shall impose an aggravated sentence.
G.The court in imposing a sentence shall consider
the evidence and opinions presented by the victim or the victim's immediate
family at any aggravation or mitigation proceeding or in the presentence
report.
H.This section does not affect any provision of law
that imposes the death penalty, that
expressly provides for imprisonment for life or that authorizes or restricts
the granting of probation and suspending the execution of sentence.
I.The intentional failure by the court to impose
the mandatory sentences or probation conditions provided in this title is
malfeasance.
J.For the purposes of this section, "trier of
fact" means a jury, unless the defendant and the state waive a jury in
which case the trier of fact means the court. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 13-706, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-706.Serious, violent or aggravated offenders; sentencing; life
imprisonment; definitions
A.A person who is at
least eighteen years of age or who has been tried as an adult and who is
convicted of a serious offense except a drug offense, first degree murder or
any dangerous crime against children as defined in section 13705,
whether a completed or preparatory offense, and who has previously been
convicted of two or more serious offenses not committed on the same occasion
shall be sentenced to life imprisonment and is not eligible for suspension of
sentence, probation, pardon or release from confinement on any basis, except as
specifically authorized by section 31233, subsection A or B, until the
person has served at least twenty-five years or the sentence is commuted.
B.Unless a longer term
of imprisonment or death is
the prescribed penalty and notwithstanding any provision that establishes a
shorter term of imprisonment, a person who has been convicted of committing or
attempting or conspiring to commit any violent or aggravated felony and who has
previously been convicted on separate occasions of two or more violent or
aggravated felonies not committed on the same occasion shall be sentenced to
imprisonment for life and is not eligible for suspension of sentence,
probation, pardon or release on any basis except that the person may be
eligible for commutation after the person has served at least thirty-five
years.
C.In order for the
penalty under subsection B of this section to apply, both of the following must
occur:
1.The aggravated or
violent felonies that comprise the prior convictions shall have been entered
within fifteen years of the conviction for the third offense, not including
time spent in custody or on probation for an offense or while the person is an
absconder.
2.The sentence for the
first aggravated or violent felony conviction shall have been imposed before
the conduct occurred that gave rise to the second conviction, and the sentence
for the second aggravated or violent felony conviction shall have been imposed
before the conduct occurred that gave rise to the third conviction.
D.Chapter 3 of this
title applies to all offenses under this section.
E.For the purposes of
this section, if a person has been convicted of an offense committed in another
jurisdiction that if committed in this state would be a violation or attempted
violation of any of the offenses listed in this section and that has the same
elements of an offense listed in this section, the offense committed in another
jurisdiction is considered an offense committed in this state.
F.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Serious
offense" means any of the following offenses if committed in this state or
any offense committed outside this state that if committed in this state would
constitute one of the following offenses:
(a)First degree murder.
(b)Second degree
murder.
(c)Manslaughter.
(d)Aggravated assault
resulting in serious physical injury or involving the discharge, use or
threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument.
(e)Sexual assault.
(f)Any dangerous crime
against children.
(g)Arson of an occupied
structure.
(h)Armed robbery.
(i)Burglary in the
first degree.
(j)Kidnapping.
(k)Sexual conduct with
a minor under fifteen years of age.
(l)Child prostitution.
2."Violent or
aggravated felony" means any of the following offenses:
(a)First degree murder.
(b)Second degree
murder.
(c)Aggravated assault
resulting in serious physical injury or involving the discharge, use or
threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument.
(d)Dangerous or deadly
assault by prisoner.
(e)Committing assault
with intent to incite to riot or participate in riot.
(f)Drive by shooting.
(g)Discharging a
firearm at a residential structure if the structure is occupied.
(h)Kidnapping.
(i)Sexual conduct with
a minor that is a class 2 felony.
(j)Sexual assault.
(k)Molestation of a
child.
(l)Continuous sexual
abuse of a child.
(m)Violent sexual assault.
(n)Burglary in the
first degree committed in a residential structure if the structure is occupied.
(o)Arson of an occupied
structure.
(p)Arson of an occupied
jail or prison facility.
(q)Armed robbery.
(r)Participating in or
assisting a criminal syndicate or leading or participating in a criminal street
gang.
(s)Terrorism.
(t)Taking a child for
the purpose of prostitution.
(u)Child prostitution.
(v)Commercial sexual
exploitation of a minor.
(w)Sexual exploitation
of a minor.
(x)Unlawful
introduction of disease or parasite as prescribed by section 132912,
subsection A, paragraph 2 or 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 13,
chapter 7.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is changed from "CAPITAL
SENTENCING" to "LIFE IMPRISONMENT".
Sec.5.Section
13-751, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-751.Sentence of life or natural life imprisonment; victims'
rights
A.If the state has filed a notice of intent to seek the death
penalty and the
a defendant is:
1.Convicted of first
degree murder pursuant to section 131105, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 3
and was at least eighteen years of age at the time of the commission of the
offense, the defendant shall be sentenced to death
or imprisonment in the custody of the state department of
corrections for natural life as
determined and in accordance with the procedures provided in section 13752.A The court shall order that the defendant not be
released on any basis for the remainder of the defendant's natural life, and
the defendant who is sentenced to
natural life is not eligible for commutation, parole, work
furlough, work release or release from confinement on any basis.
2.Convicted of first
degree murder pursuant to section 131105 and was under eighteen years of
age at the time of the commission of the offense, the defendant shall be
sentenced to imprisonment in the custody of the state department of corrections
for life or natural life, as determined
and in accordance with the procedures provided in section 13752.If the court imposes a natural life
sentence, the court shall order that the defendant not be released on any basis
for the remainder of the defendant's natural life. A defendant who is
sentenced to natural life is not eligible for commutation, parole, work
furlough, work release or release from confinement on any basis.If
the defendant is sentenced to life, the defendant shall not be released on any
basis until the completion of the service of twentyfive calendar years
if the murdered person was fifteen or more years of age and thirty-five years
if the murdered person was under fifteen years of age or was an unborn child.
3.Convicted of first
degree murder pursuant to section 131105, subsection A, paragraph 2, the
defendant shall be sentenced to death or
imprisonment in the custody of the state department of corrections for life or
natural life as determined and in accordance
with the procedures provided in section 13752. If the court imposes a natural life
sentence, the court shall order that the defendant not be released on any basis
for the remainder of the defendant's natural life. A defendant who is
sentenced to natural life is not eligible for commutation, parole, work
furlough, work release or release from confinement on any basis.If
the defendant is sentenced to life, the defendant shall not be released on any
basis until the completion of the service of twenty-five calendar years if the
murdered person was fifteen or more years of age and thirty-five years if the
murdered person was under fifteen years of age or was an unborn child.
B.At the aggravation phase of the sentencing
proceeding that is held pursuant to section 13752, the admissibility of
information relevant to any of the aggravating circumstances set forth in
subsection F of this section shall be governed by the rules of evidence
applicable to criminal trials. The burden of establishing the existence of any
of the aggravating circumstances set forth in subsection F of this section is
on the prosecution.The prosecution must prove the existence of the
aggravating circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt.
C.At the penalty phase of the sentencing proceeding
that is held pursuant to section 13752, the prosecution or the defendant
may present any information that is relevant to any of the mitigating
circumstances included in subsection G of this section, regardless of its
admissibility under the rules governing admission of evidence at criminal
trials.The burden of establishing the existence of the mitigating
circumstances included in subsection G of this section is on the defendant.
The defendant must prove the existence of the mitigating circumstances by a
preponderance of the evidence. If the trier of fact is a jury, the jurors do
not have to agree unanimously that a mitigating circumstance has been proven to
exist. Each juror may consider any mitigating circumstance found by that juror
in determining the appropriate penalty.
D.Evidence that is admitted at the trial and that
relates to any aggravating or mitigating circumstances shall be deemed admitted
as evidence at a sentencing proceeding if the trier of fact considering that
evidence is the same trier of fact that determined the defendant's
guilt.The prosecution and the defendant shall be permitted to rebut
any information received at the aggravation or penalty phase of the sentencing
proceeding and shall be given fair opportunity to present argument as to
whether the information is sufficient to establish the existence of any of the
circumstances included in subsections F and G of this section.
E.In determining whether to impose a sentence of
death or life imprisonment, the trier of fact shall take into account the
aggravating and mitigating circumstances that have been proven. The trier of
fact shall impose a sentence of death if the trier of fact finds one or more of
the aggravating circumstances enumerated in subsection F of this section and
then determines that there are no mitigating circumstances sufficiently
substantial to call for leniency.
F.The trier of fact shall consider the following
aggravating circumstances in determining whether to impose a sentence of death:
1.The defendant has been convicted of another
offense in the United States for which under Arizona law a sentence of life
imprisonment or death was imposable.
2.The defendant has been or was previously
convicted of a serious offense, whether preparatory or completed. Convictions
for serious offenses committed on the same occasion as the homicide, or not
committed on the same occasion but consolidated for trial with the homicide,
shall be treated as a serious offense under this paragraph.
3.In the commission of the offense the defendant
knowingly created a grave risk of death to another person or persons in
addition to the person murdered during the commission of the offense.
4.The defendant procured the commission of the
offense by payment, or promise of payment, of anything of pecuniary value.
5.The defendant committed the offense as
consideration for the receipt, or in expectation of the receipt, of anything of
pecuniary value.
6.The defendant committed the offense in an
especially heinous, cruel or depraved manner.
7.The defendant committed the offense while:
(a)In the custody of or on authorized or
unauthorized release from the state department of corrections, a law
enforcement agency or a county or city jail.
(b)On probation for a felony offense.
8.The defendant has been convicted of one or more
other homicides, as defined in section 131101, that were committed
during the commission of the offense.
9.The defendant was an adult at the time the
offense was committed or was tried as an adult and the murdered person was
under fifteen years of age, was an unborn child in the womb at any stage of its
development or was seventy years of age or older.
10.The murdered person was an on duty peace
officer who was killed in the course of performing the officer's official
duties and the defendant knew, or should have known, that the murdered person
was a peace officer.
11.The defendant committed the offense with the
intent to promote, further or assist the objectives of a criminal street gang
or criminal syndicate or to join a criminal street gang or criminal syndicate.
12.The defendant committed the offense to prevent
a person's cooperation with an official law enforcement investigation, to
prevent a person's testimony in a court proceeding, in retaliation for a
person's cooperation with an official law enforcement investigation or in
retaliation for a person's testimony in a court proceeding.
13.The offense was committed in a cold,
calculated manner without pretense of moral or legal justification.
14.The defendant used a remote stun gun or an
authorized remote stun gun in the commission of the offense. For the purposes
of this paragraph:
(a)"Authorized remote stun gun" means a
remote stun gun that has all of the following:
(i)An electrical discharge that is less than one
hundred thousand volts and less than nine joules of energy per pulse.
(ii)A serial or identification number on all
projectiles that are discharged from the remote stun gun.
(iii)An identification and tracking system that,
on deployment of remote electrodes, disperses coded material that is traceable
to the purchaser through records that are kept by the manufacturer on all
remote stun guns and all individual cartridges sold.
(iv)A training program that is offered by the manufacturer.
(b)"Remote stun gun" means an
electronic device that emits an electrical charge and that is designed and
primarily employed to incapacitate a person or animal either through contact
with electrodes on the device itself or remotely through wired probes that are
attached to the device or through a spark, plasma, ionization or other
conductive means emitting from the device.
G.The trier of fact shall consider as mitigating
circumstances any factors proffered by the defendant or the state that are
relevant in determining whether to impose a sentence less than death, including
any aspect of the defendant's character, propensities or record and any of the
circumstances of the offense, including but not limited to the following:
1.The defendant's capacity to appreciate the
wrongfulness of his conduct or to conform his conduct to the requirements of
law was significantly impaired, but not so impaired as to constitute a defense
to prosecution.
2.The defendant was under unusual and substantial
duress, although not such as to constitute a defense to prosecution.
3.The defendant was legally accountable for the
conduct of another under section 13303, but his participation was
relatively minor, although not so minor as to constitute a defense to prosecution.
4.The defendant could not reasonably have
foreseen that his conduct in the course of the commission of the offense for
which the defendant was convicted would cause, or would create a grave risk of
causing, death to another person.
5.The defendant's age.
H.For the purposes of determining whether a
conviction of any dangerous crime against children is a serious offense
pursuant to this section, an unborn child shall be treated like a minor who is
under twelve years of age.
I.In this section, for purposes of punishment an
unborn child shall be treated like a minor who is under twelve years of age.
J.For the purposes of this section, "serious
offense" means any of the following offenses if committed in this state or
any offense committed outside this state that if committed in this state would
constitute one of the following offenses:
1.First degree murder.
2.Second degree murder.
3.Manslaughter.
4.Aggravated assault resulting in serious
physical injury or committed by the use, threatened use or exhibition of a
deadly weapon or dangerous instrument.
5.Sexual assault.
6.Any dangerous crime against children.
7.Arson of an occupied structure.
8.Robbery.
9.Burglary in the first degree.
10.Kidnapping.
11.Sexual conduct with a minor under fifteen
years of age.
12.Burglary in the second degree.
13.Terrorism.
B.The victim has the right to be present at any
sentencing proceeding and to present any information that is relevant to the
proceeding.The victim may present information about the murdered
person and the impact of the murder on the victim and other family members and
may submit a victim impact statement in any format.For the purposes
of this subsection, "victim" means the murdered person's spouse,
parent, child or other lawful representative, except if the spouse, parent,
child or other lawful representative is in custody for an offense or is the
accused. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal
Sections 13-752,
13-753, 13-754, 13-755, 13-756, 13-757, 13-758 and
13759, Arizona Revised Statutes, are
repealed.
Sec.7.Section
13-1105, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-1105.First degree murder; classification
A.A person commits
first degree murder if:
1.Intending or knowing
that the person's conduct will cause death, the person causes the death of
another person, including an unborn child, with premeditation or, as a result
of causing the death of another person with premeditation, causes the death of
an unborn child.
2.Acting either alone
or with one or more other persons the person commits or attempts to commit
sexual conduct with a minor under section 131405, sexual assault under
section 131406, molestation of a child under section 131410,
terrorism under section 132308.01, marijuana offenses under section 133405,
subsection A, paragraph 4, dangerous drug offenses under section 133407,
subsection A, paragraphs 4 and 7, narcotics offenses under section 133408,
subsection A, paragraph 7 that equal or exceed the statutory threshold amount
for each offense or combination of offenses, involving or using minors in drug
offenses under section 133409, drive by shooting under section 13-1209,
kidnapping under section 131304, burglary under section 131506,
131507 or 131508, arson under section 131703 or 131704,
robbery under section 131902, 131903 or 131904, escape
under section 132503 or 132504, child abuse under section 133623,
subsection A, paragraph 1 or unlawful flight from a pursuing law enforcement
vehicle under section 28622.01 and, in the course of and in furtherance
of the offense or immediate flight from the offense, the person or another
person causes the death of any person.
3.Intending or knowing
that the person's conduct will cause death to a law enforcement officer, the
person causes the death of a law enforcement officer who is in the line of
duty.
B.Homicide, as
prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section, requires no specific
mental state other than what is required for the commission of any of the
enumerated felonies.
C.An offense under
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section applies to an unborn child in the
womb at any stage of its development. A person shall not be prosecuted under
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section if any of the following applies:
1.The person was
performing an abortion for which the consent of the pregnant woman, or a person
authorized by law to act on the pregnant woman's behalf, has been obtained or
for which the consent was implied or authorized by law.
2.The person was
performing medical treatment on the pregnant woman or the pregnant woman's
unborn child.
3.The person was the
unborn child's mother.
D.First degree murder
is a class 1 felony and is punishable by death
or life or
natural life imprisonment as provided by sections section 13-751 and 13752.
END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
13-3841, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3841.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Charged with
crime", "criminal charge" or "criminal offense"
includes any of the following:
(a)A felony or
misdemeanor offense.
(b)Escape from
confinement or the custody of any of the following:
(i)A law enforcement
officer.
(ii)A custodial
official.
(iii)A custodial
agency.
(iv)A custodial
institution.
(c)Being accused on a
warrant of violating the terms of federal or state supervision.
(d)Being accused of
violating bail or conditions of release.
(e)The conviction Being convicted of a crime.
(f)Having an unserved
remaining criminal sentence.
(g)Being subject to the death penalty on criminal
conviction.
3.2."Executive authority"
includes the governor, and any person performing the functions of governor in a
state other than this state.
2.3."Governor" includes
any person performing the functions of governor by authority of the law of this
state.
4."State,", when referring to a state
other than this state, means any other state or territory, organized or
unorganized, of the United States. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section
13-3859.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3859.02.Imprisonment; alternative methods of extradition
If after a local criminal
prosecution a fugitive defendant is sentenced to serve a term of imprisonment
in a correctional facility or a county jail, the court shall vacate the
fugitive proceedings and shall exonerate the fugitive bond.After
the proceedings are vacated and the bond is exonerated, except for death penalty cases, sections 31481
and 31482 apply.If sections 31481 and 31482 do
not apply, the fugitive matter is governed by any other applicable procedure
for the rendition or extradition of fugitives, subject to section 133859.The
defendant's fugitive status is not extinguished by the sentence of
imprisonment. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
13-3870, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3870.Executive agreements
A.If this state wishes
to obtain custody of a person
who is charged in this state with a criminal offense and the person was
convicted or is imprisoned or held under criminal proceedings then pending
against him in another state, the governor of this state and the executive
authority of the other state may agree on the extradition of the person before
the criminal proceedings against the person have terminated or the person's
sentence has been served in the other state.
B.Any executive
agreement entered into pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be
conditioned on the return of the person to the other state at this state's
expense as soon as the prosecution in this state is terminated, unless the person is sentenced to death under the laws of this
state.
C.On demand of the
executive authority of another state the governor may surrender a person in
this state who was returned to this state pursuant to section 133863 and
who has been charged with a criminal offense in the demanding
state.The person may be surrendered even if the person left the
demanding state involuntarily. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section
13-3906, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3906.Processing arrestees; citizenship determination; notice
A.Within twenty-four
hours after a person is brought to a law enforcement agency for incarceration,
the law enforcement agency shall inquire of the person and determine that
person's country of citizenship.If the person is not a United
States citizen, the law enforcement agency shall:
1.Notify the person's
country of citizenship of the person's detention if the person does not waive
notification or if the person's country of citizenship requires notification
regardless of the person's waiver of notification.
2.Document the
notification to the person's country of citizenship and any waiver of
notification.
3.Transmit any
information obtained pursuant to this section to the court and the prosecuting
agency for the purpose of making a determination pursuant to section 133961,
subsection A, paragraph 5 4 or section 133967,
subsection B, paragraph 14 or for any other lawful purpose.
B.The failure or
inability of a law enforcement agency to provide the notice required by this
section does not:
1.Affect the
admissibility of any statements, the voluntariness of a guilty plea or the
validity of a conviction.
2.Afford a defendant
any rights in any proceeding related to deportation, exclusion or denial of
naturalization. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section
13-3961, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3961.Offenses not bailable; purpose; preconviction; exceptions
A.A person who is in
custody shall not be admitted to bail if the proof is evident or the
presumption great that the person is guilty of the offense charged and the
offense charged is one of the following:
1.A capital offense.
2.1.Sexual assault.
3.2.Sexual conduct with a minor who
is under fifteen years of age.
4.3.Molestation of a child who is
under fifteen years of age.
5.4.A serious felony offense if
there is probable cause to believe that the person has entered or remained in
the United States illegally.For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)The court shall
consider all of the following in making a determination that a person has
entered or remained in the United States illegally:
(i)Whether a hold has
been placed on the arrested person by the United States immigration and customs
enforcement.
(ii)Any indication by a
law enforcement agency that the person is in the United States illegally.
(iii)Whether an
admission by the arrested person has been obtained by the court or a law
enforcement agency that the person has entered or remained in the United States
illegally.
(iv)Any information
received from a law enforcement agency pursuant to section 133906.
(v)Any evidence that
the person has recently entered or remained in the United States illegally.
(vi)Any other relevant
information that is obtained by the court or that is presented to the court by
a party or any other person.
(b)"Serious felony
offense" means any class 1, 2, 3 or 4 felony or any violation of section
281383.
B.The purposes of bail
and any conditions of release that are set by a judicial officer include:
1.Assuring the
appearance of the accused.
2.Protecting against
the intimidation of witnesses.
3.Protecting the safety
of the victim, any other person or the community.
C.The initial
determination of whether an offense is bailable pursuant to subsection A of
this section shall be made by the magistrate or judicial officer at the time of
the person's initial appearance.
D.Except as provided in
subsection A of this section, a person who is in custody shall not be admitted
to bail if the person is charged with a felony offense and the state certifies
by motion and the court finds after a hearing on the matter that there is clear
and convincing evidence that the person charged poses a substantial danger to
another person or the community or engaged in conduct constituting a violent
offense, that no condition or combination of conditions of release may be
imposed that will reasonably assure the safety of the other person or the
community and that the proof is evident or the presumption great that the
person committed the offense for which the person is charged. For the purposes
of this subsection, "violent offense" means either of the following:
1.A dangerous crime
against children.
2.Terrorism.
E.On oral motion of the
state, the court shall order the hearing required by subsection D of this
section at or within twentyfour hours of the initial appearance unless
the person who is subject to detention or the state moves for a continuance. A
continuance that is granted on the motion of the person shall not exceed five
calendar days unless there are extenuating circumstances. A continuance on the
motion of the state shall be granted on good cause shown and shall not exceed
twentyfour hours.The prosecutor shall provide reasonable
notice and an opportunity for victims and witnesses to be present and heard at
any hearing. The person may be detained pending the hearing. The person is
entitled to representation by counsel and is entitled to present information by
proffer or otherwise, to testify and to present witnesses in the person's own
behalf.Testimony of the person charged that is given during the
hearing shall not be admissible on the issue of guilt in any subsequent
judicial proceeding, except as it might relate to the compliance with or
violation of any condition of release subsequently imposed or the imposition of
appropriate sentence or in perjury proceedings, or for the purposes of
impeachment. The case of the person shall be placed on an expedited calendar
and, consistent with the sound administration of justice, the person's trial
shall be given priority.The person may be admitted to bail in
accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure whenever a judicial
officer finds that a subsequent event has eliminated the basis for detention.
F.The finding of an
indictment or the filing of an information does not add to the strength of the
proof or the presumption to be drawn.
G.In a hearing pursuant
to subsection D of this section, proof that the person is a criminal street
gang member may give rise to the inference that the person poses a substantial
danger to another person or the community and that no condition or combination
of conditions of release may be imposed that will reasonably assure the safety
of the other person or the community. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Repeal
Title 13, chapter 38, article 17,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.14.Section
13-4031, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4031.Right of appeal
The state, or any party to a
prosecution by indictment, information or complaint, may appeal as prescribed
by law and in the manner provided by the arizona rules of criminal procedure, except criminal actions involving crimes for which a
sentence of death has actually been imposed may only be appealed to the supreme
court. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section
13-4033, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4033.Appeal by defendant
A.An appeal may be
taken by the defendant only from:
1.A final judgment of
conviction or verdict of guilty except insane.
2.An order denying a
motion for a new trial.
3.An order made after
judgment affecting the substantial rights of the party.
4.A sentence on the
grounds that it is illegal or excessive.
B.In noncapital cases A defendant may not appeal
from a judgment or sentence that is entered pursuant to a plea agreement or an
admission to a probation violation.
C.A defendant may not
appeal under subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 if the defendant's absence prevents
sentencing from occurring within ninety days after conviction and the defendant
fails to prove by clear and convincing evidence at the time of sentencing that
the absence was involuntary. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section
13-4040, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4040.Divestiture of jurisdiction of supreme court after
remission of minute entry and decision; exception
After a certified copy of the
minute entry and a copy of the decision of the supreme court in a criminal
appeal has have been remitted to the
trial court from which the appeal was taken, the supreme court shall have no
further jurisdiction of the appeal, or of the proceedings
thereon.All orders which
that may be necessary
to carry the decision of the supreme court into effect shall be made by the
court to which the copy of the minute entry and the copy of the decision is
are remitted, except when a
judgment or sentence of death has been affirmed on appeal after the time
appointed for the execution of the sentence and the supreme court has fixed a
new time for execution and issued a warrant to the director of the department
of corrections to execute the sentence at the time designated in the warrant.
END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 13-4041, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4041.Fee of counsel assigned in criminal proceeding or insanity
hearing on appeal or in postconviction relief proceedings
A.Except
pursuant to subsection G of this section, If counsel is appointed
by the court to represent the defendant in either a criminal proceeding or
insanity hearing on appeal, the county in which the court from which the appeal
is taken presides shall pay counsel, except that in those appeals where the
defendant is represented by a public defender or other publicly funded office, the county shall not set or pay compensation
shall not be set or paid.
Compensation for services rendered on appeal shall be in an amount as the
supreme court in its discretion deems reasonable, considering the services
performed.
B.After the
supreme court has affirmed a defendant's conviction and sentence in a capital
case, the supreme court or, if authorized by the supreme court, the presiding
judge of the county from which the case originated shall appoint counsel to
represent the capital defendant in the state postconviction relief proceeding.
C.The supreme
court shall establish and maintain a list of persons who are qualified to
represent capital defendants in postconviction proceedings.The
supreme court may establish by rule more stringent standards of competency for
the appointment of postconviction counsel in capital cases than are provided by
this subsection. The supreme court may refuse to certify an attorney on the
list who meets the qualifications established under this subsection or may
remove an attorney from the list who meets the qualifications established under
this subsection if the supreme court determines that the attorney is incapable
or unable to adequately represent a capital defendant.The court
shall appoint counsel from the list.Counsel who are appointed from
the list shall meet the following qualifications:
1.Be a member
in good standing of the state bar of Arizona for at least five years
immediately preceding the appointment.
2.Have
practiced in the area of state criminal appeals or postconviction proceedings
for at least three years immediately preceding the appointment.
3.Not
previously have represented the capital defendant in the case either in the
trial court or in the direct appeal, unless the defendant and counsel expressly
request continued representation and waive all potential issues that are
foreclosed by continued representation.
D.Before
filing a petition, the capital defendant may personally appear before the trial
court and waive counsel. If the trial court finds that the waiver is knowing
and voluntary, appointed counsel may withdraw. The time limits in which to
file a petition shall not be extended due solely to the change from appointed
counsel to selfrepresentation.
E.If at any
time the trial court determines that the capital defendant is not indigent,
appointed counsel shall no longer be compensated by public monies and may
withdraw.
F.Unless
counsel is employed by a publicly funded office, counsel appointed to represent
a capital defendant in state postconviction relief proceedings shall be paid an
hourly rate of not to exceed one hundred dollars per hour. Monies shall not be
paid to court appointed counsel unless either:
1.A petition
is timely filed.
2.If a
petition is not filed, a notice is timely filed stating that counsel has
reviewed the record and found no meritorious claim.
G.B.The trial court
shall compensate appointed counsel from county funds.The court or
the court's designee shall review and approve all reasonable fees and costs.
If the attorney believes that the court has set an unreasonably low hourly rate
or if the court finds that the hours the attorney spent are unreasonable, the
attorney may file a special action with the Arizona supreme
court.If counsel is appointed in successive postconviction relief
proceedings, compensation shall be paid pursuant to section 134013, subsection A.
H.The county
shall request reimbursement for fees it incurs pursuant to subsections F, G and
I of this section arising out of the appointment of counsel to represent an
indigent capital defendant in a state postconviction relief proceeding. The
state shall pay a portion of the fees incurred by the county out of monies
appropriated to the supreme court for these purposes. The total amount that
may be spent in any fiscal year by this state for indigent capital defense in a
state postconviction relief proceeding may not exceed the amount appropriated
in the general appropriations act for this purpose, together with additional
amounts appropriated by any special legislative appropriation for indigent
capital defense. The supreme court shall approve county requests for
reimbursement after certification that the amount requested is owed.
I.C.The trial court
may authorize additional monies to pay for investigative and expert services
that are reasonably necessary to adequately litigate those claims that are not
precluded by section 134232. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Repeal
Section 13-4042,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.19.Section 13-4234, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4234.Commencement of proceedings; notice; assignment of judge
A.A proceeding is
commenced by timely filing a notice of postconviction relief with the clerk of
the court in which the conviction occurred.The clerk of the trial
court shall provide notice forms for commencement of first and successive
postconviction relief proceedings.The notice shall bear the caption
of the original criminal action to which it pertains.The notice in
successive postconviction relief proceedings shall comply with section 134232,
subsection B.On receipt of the notice, the clerk of the trial court
shall file a copy of the notice in the case file of each original action and
promptly send copies to the defendant, the defendant's attorney, if known, the
county attorney and the attorney general, noting the date and manner of sending
the copies in the record.The state shall notify the victim on
request.
B.If an appeal of the
defendant's conviction or sentence, or both, is pending, the clerk, within five
days after the filing of the notice for postconviction relief, shall send a
copy of the notice to the appropriate appellate court, noting the date and
manner of sending the copy in the record.
C.In noncapital cases, The notice shall be filed
within ninety days after the judgment and sentence are entered or within thirty
days after the order and mandate affirming the judgment and sentence is issued
on direct appeal, whichever is later.A defendant has sixty days
from the filing of the notice in which to file a petition.On the
filing of a successive notice, a defendant has thirty days from the filing of
the notice in which to file a petition.
D.In capital cases, on the issuance of a mandate
affirming the defendant's conviction and sentence on direct appeal, the clerk
of the supreme court expeditiously shall file a notice of postconviction relief
with the trial court.On the first notice in capital cases, a
defendant has sixty days from the filing of the notice in which to file a
petition.The supreme court shall appoint counsel pursuant to
section 134041, subsection B.All indigent state prisoners
under a capital sentence are entitled to the appointment of counsel to
represent them in state postconviction proceedings. A competent indigent
defendant may reject the offer of counsel with an understanding of its legal
consequence.On successive notice in capital cases, the trial court
shall appoint the previous postconviction relief counsel of the capital
defendant unless counsel is waived pursuant to section 134041,
subsection D or good cause exists to appoint another qualified attorney
pursuant to section 134041, subsection B.On the filing of a
successive notice, a capital defendant or an appointed attorney has thirty days
from the filing of the notice in which to file a petition.
E.D.A
defendant who has pled guilty and who is precluded from filing a direct appeal
pursuant to section 134033 may be granted an additional thirty day
extension of time in which to file the petition if the defendant's counsel
refuses to raise issues and leaves the defendant insufficient time to file a
petition within the time limits.
F.E.On
a specific and detailed showing of good cause, a defendant in a noncapital case may be granted up to a
sixty day extension of time in which to file the petition.On a specific and detailed showing of good cause, a defendant
in a capital case may be granted one thirty day extension of time in which to
file the petition.
G.F.The time
limits are jurisdictional, and an untimely filed notice or petition shall be
dismissed with prejudice.
H.G.If the record
of the trial proceeding has not been transcribed, the defendant may request on
a form provided by the clerk of the superior court that the record be
prepared.The court shall order that those portions of the record be
prepared that it deems necessary to resolve the issues to be raised in the
petition.The preparation of the record is a county expense if the
defendant is indigent.The time for filing the petition is tolled
from the time a request for the record is made until the record is prepared or
the request is denied.
I.H.The proceeding
shall be assigned to the sentencing judge if it is possible.If it
appears that the sentencing judge's testimony is relevant, the sentencing judge
shall transfer the case to another judge.
J.If the defendant has received a sentence of
death and the supreme court has fixed the time for execution of the sentence, a
stay of execution shall not be granted on the filing of a second or subsequent
petition except on separate application for a stay to the supreme court setting
forth with particularity those issues raised which are not precluded under
section 134232. The warrant shall not be stayed to allow for the filing
of a petition. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Repeal
Section 13-4234.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.21.Section
21-102, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE21-102.Juries; size; degree of unanimity required; waiver
A.A jury for trial of a
criminal case in which a sentence of death
or imprisonment for thirty years or more is authorized by law
shall consist of twelve persons, and the concurrence of all shall be necessary
to render a verdict.
B.A jury for trial in
any court of record of any other criminal case shall consist of eight persons,
and the concurrence of all shall be necessary to render a verdict.
C.A jury for trial in
any court of record of a civil case shall consist of eight persons, and the
concurrence of all but two shall be necessary to render a verdict.
D.In a court not of
record, a jury for trial of any case shall consist of six
persons.The concurrence of all in a criminal case and all but one
in a civil case shall be necessary to render a verdict.
E.The parties in a
civil case, and the parties with the consent of the court in a criminal case,
may waive trial by jury, or at any time before a verdict is returned consent to
try the case with or receive a verdict concurred in by a lesser number of
jurors than that specified above. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section
31-240, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-240.Prisoner education services budget; prohibitions
A.The director shall
establish and maintain a dedicated prisoner education services budget for each
state prison to identify the monies appropriated to the department and expended
for the following education programs:
1.The functional
literacy program established pursuant to section 31229.
2.Adult basic
education.
3.General equivalency
diploma preparation.
4.Vocational and
technical education.
B.The director shall
not expend the education services budget monies for education programs
dedicated to prisoners incarcerated in a special management unit or prisoners sentenced to death.
C.The provisions of Subsection B of this section shall does
not apply to prisoners who are under eighteen years of age and prisoners
with disabilities who are under twentytwo years of age. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 31-403, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-403.Commutation; restrictions on consideration
A.A person who is otherwise eligible for
commutation and who is denied a commutation of sentence recommendation shall
not petition or be considered by the board for commutation of that sentence for
a period of five years following the date of the board's denial of the
commutation recommendation if the offense for which the commutation
recommendation was denied involved any of the following:
1.Death in violation of section 131104 or 131105.
2.Serious physical injury if the person was
sentenced pursuant to section 13-704.
3.A dangerous crime against children as defined in
section 13705.
4.A felony offense in violation of title 13,
chapter 14 or 35.1.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 2 of this
section, if, in its sole discretion, the board determines that the person
committed an offense that involved serious physical injury as defined in
section 13105 and that the person was not sentenced pursuant to section
13704, the board may order that the person shall not petition or be
considered by the board for commutation of that sentence for a period of five
years following the date of the board's denial of the commutation
recommendation.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A or B of this
section, the board, at the time of denial, may lengthen the five year period of
time prescribed in subsection A or B of this section to a period of up to ten
years, except that if the offense for which commutation was denied involved a
violation of an offense listed in subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section,
the board may lengthen the period of time to a period of time that is greater
than ten years and that is specified by the board by one of the following
votes:
1.A majority affirmative vote if four or more
members consider the action.
2.A unanimous affirmative vote if three members
consider the action.
3.A unanimous affirmative vote if two members
consider the action pursuant to section 31401, subsection I and the
chairman concurs after reviewing the information considered by the two
members. If the chairman is one of the two members constituting a two member
quorum under section 31401, subsection I, and both the chairman and the
other member vote to lengthen the five year period to a period of time greater
than ten years, no further action shall be taken and the decision on whether to
lengthen the five year period shall be considered by the board at a meeting at
which at least three members are present and voting.
D.The board may waive the provisions of subsections
A, B and C of this section if any of the following applies:
1.The person is in imminent danger of death due to
a medical condition, as determined by the board.
2.The person
is the subject of a warrant of execution.
3.2.The sentence for
which commutation is sought is the subject of a special order issued by the
court pursuant to section 13603, subsection L.
E.This section applies only to offenses that are
committed on or after January 1, 2006. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section
31-445, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-445.Publication of reasons for granting a commutation, pardon
or reprieve
When the governor grants a commutation, pardon, reprieve or
stay or suspends execution of sentence in a case where a sentence of death is
imposed, he shall, Within ten days after granting the A
commutation, pardon, or reprieve, or stay or suspension of execution, cause to be published the governor shall publish in
bold type, in a newspaper of general circulation, that is published in the
county where the conviction was had, and shall file with the secretary of state
for publication in the Arizona administrative register, a statement setting
forth his the governor's reasons for granting the
commutation, pardon, or reprieve or for staying or suspending such execution. A
further reprieve shall not be granted except upon
on the same procedure.
END_STATUTE 
Sec.25.Section 41-1013, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1013.Register
A.The
secretary of state shall publish the register at least once each month,
including the information which is provided under subsection B of this section
and which is filed with the secretary of state during the preceding thirty
days.The secretary of state shall publish an index to the register
at least twice each year.
B.The register shall
contain:
1.A schedule of the
time, date and place of all hearings on proposed repeals, makings or amendments
of rules.
2.Each governor's
executive order.
3.Each governor's
proclamation of general applicability, and each statement filed by the governor
in granting a commutation, pardon or reprieve or
stay or suspension of execution where a sentence of death is imposed.
4.A summary of each
attorney general's opinion.
5.Each governor's
appointment of state officials and board and commission members.
6.A table of contents.
7.The notice and agency
summary of each docket opening.
8.The full text and
accompanying preamble of each proposed rule.
9.The full text and
accompanying preamble of each final rule.
10.The full text and
accompanying preamble of each emergency rule.
11.Supplemental
notices of a proposed rule.
12.Proposed and
final notices of expedited rule making and notices that an objection was
received regarding a proposed expedited rule making.
13.A summary of
council action on each rule.
14.The full text of
any exempt final rule filed with the secretary of state pursuant to section 411005,
subsection C.
15.The notice and a
summary of substantive policy statements and notice and a summary of any
guidance document publication or revision submitted by an
agency.The notice for a substantive policy statement shall contain
the website address where the full text of the document is available, if
practicable.
16.Notices of oral
proceedings, public workshops or other meetings on an open rule making docket.
C.The register shall be
available by subscription and for single copy purchase.The charge
for each register or periodic subscription shall be a reasonable charge, not to
exceed all costs of production and distribution of the register.
D.For purposes of this
section, full text publication in the register includes all new, amended or
added language and such existing language as the proposing agency deems
necessary for a proper understanding of the proposed rule.Rules
that are undergoing extensive revision may be reprinted in
whole.Existing rule language not required for understanding shall
be omitted and marked "no change". END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Death sentences; commutation
The supreme court shall remand each
case in which a sentence of death was imposed before the effective date of this
act to the court in the county in which the sentence of death was imposed and
that court shall strike the sentence of death and enter in its place a sentence
of natural life. An order sentencing a prisoner to natural life is not subject
to commutation, parole, community supervision, work furlough or work release.

