







REFERENCE TITLE: STO credit cap; growth trigger







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2211









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Alston, Cardenas, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Mach, Mendez, Otondo, Saldate:
  Andrade, Clark, Gonzales, Hale, Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending section
43-1183, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to corporate income tax credit for
contributions to school tuition organizations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1183.Credit for contributions to school tuition organization
A.Beginning from and after June 30, 2006, a credit
is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions made by the taxpayer during the taxable year to a school
tuition organization that is certified pursuant to chapter 15 of this title at
the time of donation.
B.The amount of the credit is the total amount of
the taxpayer's contributions for the taxable year under subsection A of this
section and is preapproved by the department of revenue pursuant to subsection
D of this section.
C.The department of revenue:
1.Shall not allow tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 that exceed in the aggregate a combined total of
ten million dollars in any fiscal year.Beginning in fiscal year
20072008 through fiscal year
2015-2016, the aggregate dollar amount of the tax credit cap from
the previous fiscal year shall be annually increased by twenty percent. Beginning in fiscal year 2016-2017, the
annual increase, if any, shall be determined as follows:
(a)If the
transaction privilege tax growth rate and the total nonfarm employment growth
rate are each less than two percent:
(i)On or
before February 1, the director of the office of strategic planning and
budgeting and the director of the joint legislative budget committee shall
jointly notify the director of the department.
(ii)The
aggregate dollar amount of the tax credit cap shall not increase from the
previous year.
(b)If the
director of the department does not receive notice pursuant to subdivision (a), item (i) of this paragraph, the aggregate dollar amount of the tax
credit cap from the previous fiscal year shall be increased by twenty percent.
2.Shall preapprove tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 subject to subsection D of this section.
3.Shall allow the tax credits under this section
and section 20224.06 on a first come, first served basis.
D.For the purposes of subsection C, paragraph 2 of
this section, before making a contribution to a school tuition organization, the
taxpayer under this title or title 20 must notify the school tuition
organization of the total amount of contributions that the taxpayer intends to
make to the school tuition organization.Before accepting the
contribution, the school tuition organization shall request preapproval from
the department of revenue for the taxpayer's intended contribution amount. The
department of revenue shall preapprove or deny the requested amount within
twenty days after receiving the request from the school tuition organization.If
the department of revenue preapproves the request, the school tuition
organization shall immediately notify the taxpayer, and the department of
insurance in the case of a credit under section 20224.06, that the
requested amount was preapproved by the department of revenue. In order to
receive a tax credit under this subsection, the taxpayer shall make the
contribution to the school tuition organization within twenty days after
receiving notice from the school tuition organization that the requested amount
was preapproved.If the school tuition organization does not receive
the preapproved contribution from the taxpayer within the required twenty days,
the school tuition organization shall immediately notify the department of revenue,
and the department of insurance in the case of a credit under section 20224.06,
and the department of revenue shall no longer include this preapproved
contribution amount when calculating the limit prescribed in subsection C,
paragraph 1 of this section.
E.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
F.Co-owners of a business, including corporate
partners in a partnership and stockholders of an S corporation as defined in
section 1361 of the internal revenue code, may each claim only the pro rata
share of the credit allowed under this section based on the ownership
interest. The total of the credits allowed all such owners may not exceed the
amount that would have been allowed a sole owner.
G.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
H.A taxpayer shall not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431184 with respect to the same
contribution.
I.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization for
the direct benefit of any specific student.
J.The department of revenue, with the cooperation
of the department of insurance, shall adopt rules and publish and prescribe
forms and procedures necessary for the administration of this section.
K.For the
purposes of subsection C, paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of this section:
1."Total
nonfarm employment growth rate" means the percentage change in the
seasonally adjusted total nonfarm employment in this state from the final month
of the most recent calendar year to the final month of the immediately
preceding calendar year, as reported by the department of administration.
2."Transaction
privilege tax growth rate" means the percentage change in the revenues
derived from the state transaction privilege tax that are distributed to the
state general fund from the most recent calendar year to the immediately
preceding calendar year, as reported by the department of revenue.
END_STATUTE

