







REFERENCE TITLE: mobile home parks; use change







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2200









Introduced by
Representatives
  Lawrence: Larkin





AN ACT

amending sections
33-1476 and 33-1476.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona
mobile home parks residential landlord and tenant act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1476, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1476.Termination or nonrenewal of rental agreement by landlord;
noncompliance with rental agreement by tenant; failure to pay rent
A.The landlord shall specify the reason or reasons
for the termination or nonrenewal of any tenancy in the mobile home park. The
reason or reasons relied on for the termination or nonrenewal shall be stated
in writing with specific facts, so that the date, place and circumstances
concerning the reason or reasons for termination or nonrenewal can be
determined. Reference to or recital of the language of this chapter, or both,
is not sufficient compliance with this subsection.
B.The landlord may not terminate or refuse to renew
a tenancy without good cause. For the
purposes of this subsection, "good cause" means:
1.Noncompliance with any provision of the rental
agreement.
2.Nonpayment of rent.
3.Change in use of land.
4.Clear and convincing evidence that a tenant has
repeatedly violated any provision of this chapter and established a pattern of
noncompliance with such provisions.
C.The landlord's right to terminate or to refuse to
renew a tenancy pursuant to subsection B of this section does not arise until
the landlord has complied with subsection D, E or H of this section.
D.Except as otherwise prohibited by law:
1.If there is a material noncompliance by the
tenant with the rental agreement, the landlord shall deliver a written notice
to the tenant specifying the acts and omissions constituting the breach and
that the rental agreement will terminate upon on a date not less than thirty
days after receipt of the notice if the breach is not remedied in fourteen
days. If the tenant remedies the situation within the time specified in the
notice, the landlord shall issue a notice to the tenant releasing the tenant
from the termination of rental agreement notice.
2.If there is a noncompliance by the tenant with
section 331451 materially affecting health and safety, the landlord may
deliver a written notice to the tenant specifying the acts and omissions
constituting the breach and that the rental agreement will terminate upon on a date not less than twenty days after
receipt of the notice if the breach is not remedied in ten days. However, if
the breach is remediable by repair or the payment of damages or otherwise, and
the tenant adequately remedies the breach before the date specified in the
notice, the rental agreement will not terminate. If the tenant remedies the situation
within the time specified in the notice, the landlord shall issue a notice to
the tenant releasing the tenant from the termination of rental agreement
notice.
3.If there is a noncompliance that is both material
and irreparable and that occurs on the premises, including an illegal discharge
of a weapon, homicide as prescribed in sections 131102 through 131105,
criminal street gang activity as prescribed in section 13105, activity
as prohibited in section 132308, prostitution as defined in section 133211,
the unlawful manufacturing, selling, transferring, possessing, using or storing
of a controlled substance as defined in section 133451, threatening or
intimidating as prohibited in section 131202, infliction of serious
bodily harm, assault as prohibited in section 131203, criminal activity
involving serious property damage or acts that have been found to constitute a
nuisance pursuant to section 12991, the landlord may deliver a written
notice for immediate termination of the rental agreement and proceed pursuant
to section 331485.
4.If a tenant engages in repetitive conduct that is
the subject of notices under this subsection, after two incidents of the same
type documented by the landlord within a twelve
month twelve-month
period or after receipt by the landlord of two written complaints from other
tenants about the repetitive conduct within a twelve month twelve-month period, the landlord may deliver
a written notice to the tenant specifying the repetitive conduct and the
documentation and advising the tenant that on documentation of the next
incident of the same type final notice will be given and the rental agreement
or tenancy will be terminated thirty days after the date of the notice.
5.If a tenant has been involved in three or more
documented incidents of conduct of any type described in this section within a twelve month twelve-month period, the landlord may deliver
a written notice to the tenant specifying the conduct and the documentation and
advising the tenant that on documentation of the next incident final notice
will be given and the rental agreement or tenancy will be terminated thirty
days after the date of the notice.
E.If rent is unpaid when due and the tenant fails
to pay rent within seven days after written notice by the landlord of
nonpayment and the landlord's intention to terminate the rental agreement if
the rent is not paid within that period of time, the landlord may terminate the
rental agreement. Before judgment in an action brought by the landlord under
this subsection, the tenant may have the rental agreement reinstated by
tendering the past due but unpaid periodic rent, reasonable attorney's fees
incurred by the landlord and court costs, if any.
F.Except as provided in this chapter, the landlord
may recover actual damages, obtain injunctive relief or recover possession of
the premises pursuant to an action in forcible detainer for repeated
noncompliance by the tenant with the rental agreement or section 331451.
G.The remedy provided in subsection F of this
section is in addition to any right of the landlord arising under subsection D
of this section.
H.If a change in use is intended for the land on
which a mobile home park or a portion of a mobile home park is located and the
landlord intends eviction of a mobile home tenant due to a change in use, the
landlord shall notify all tenants in the park in writing that:
1.The change in use may subsequently result in the
termination of a rental agreement.
2.The tenant being terminated due to the change in use
will receive a one hundred eighty day
one-hundred-eighty-day
notice before the actual termination of the rental agreement or, if the change in use requires the enactment, adoption
or approval of the proposed change in use by the governing body of a city or
town, the tenant will RECEIVE one hundred eighty days' notice after final
action by the governing body of the city or town approving the change in use.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 33-1476.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1476.01.Change in use; notices; compensation for moving expenses;
prohibition; violation; classification; payments by the landlord
A.The landlord shall notify the director and all
tenants in writing of a change in use at least one hundred eighty days before
the change in use, except that if the
change in use requires the enactment, adoption or approval of the proposed
change in use by the governing body of a city or town, the landlord SHALL
PROVIDE one hundred eighty days' written notice after final action by the
governing body of the city or town approving the change in use.
The landlord may not increase rent within ninety days before giving notice of a change in use the one-hundred-eighty-day notice period.
B.The landlord shall inform all tenants in writing
about the mobile home relocation fund established in section 331476.02.
C.If a tenant is required to move due to a change
in use or redevelopment of the mobile home park, the tenant may do any of the
following:
1.Collect payment from the mobile home relocation
fund for the lesser of the actual moving expenses of relocating the mobile home
to a new location that is within a fifty-mile
twenty-five-mile radius
of the vacated mobile home park or five
seven thousand five hundred dollars for a
single section mobile home or ten
twelve thousand five hundred dollars for a
multisection mobile home. The dollar
amounts shall be increased each calendar year by three percent and the
department of Fire, building and life safety shall calculate those dollar
amounts.Moving expenses include the cost of stabilizing, taking down,
moving and setting up the mobile home in the new location, replacement of appliances that cannot be moved, compliance
with federal, state or local requirements for access for persons with
disabilities and any special needs of the tenant as prescribed by the United
States department of housing and urban development or by the tenant's physician
in order to secure the mobile home in the new location.
2.Abandon the mobile home in the mobile home park
and collect an amount equal to onefourth
of the maximum allowable moving expense for that mobile home from
the mobile home relocation fund. To qualify for abandonment payment pursuant
to this paragraph, the tenant shall deliver to the landlord the current title
to the mobile home with the notarized endorsement of the owner of record
together with complete releases of all liens that are shown on the title and
proof that all taxes owing on the mobile home have been paid to
date.The tenant shall provide a copy of these documents to the
department of fire, building and life safety in support of the tenant's
application for payment. If the tenant chooses to abandon the mobile home
pursuant to this paragraph, the landlord is exempt from making the payments to
the fund prescribed in subsection D of this section.
3.If a mobile home is relocated to a location
outside of the vacated mobile home park and, in the sole judgment of the
director, the mobile home was ground set in the mobile home park from which it
was removed, the tenant may collect additional monies not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars for the incremental costs of removing a ground set
mobile home. The dollar amount shall
be increased each calendar year by three percent and the department of Fire,
building and life safety shall calculate that dollar amount.These
monies are in addition to any monies provided pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
subsection.
D.Except as provided in subsection C, paragraph 2
and subsection F of this section and section 331476.04, subsection D, if
there is a change in use the landlord shall pay five hundred one thousand dollars for each single section
mobile home and eight twelve hundred dollars for each
multisection mobile home relocated to the fund for each tenant filing for
relocation assistance with the director. The dollar amounts shall be increased each calendar year by
three percent and the department of Fire, building and life safety shall
calculate those dollar amounts.
E.If a change in use occurs before the time stated
in the statements of policy and the landlord does not comply with subsection A
of this section and with section 331436 and section 331476,
subsection H, the landlord shall pay to the fund in addition to the monies
prescribed in subsection D of this section:
1.Five
hundred One thousand dollars
for each mobile home space occupied by a single-section mobile
home.The dollar amount
shall be increased in the same manner prescribed by subsection D of this
section.
2.Eight
twelve hundred dollars
for each mobile home space occupied by a multisection mobile home. The dollar amount shall be increased in the
same manner prescribed by subsection D of this section.
F.The landlord is not required to make the payments
prescribed in subsections D and E of this section for moving mobile homes owned
by the landlord or for moving a mobile home under a contract with the tenant if
the tenant does not file for relocation assistance with the director.
G.If a change in use occurs within two hundred
seventy days of after relocations under
section 331476.04, the landlord shall pay to the fund in addition to the
monies prescribed in subsection D of this section:
1.Five
hundred One thousand dollars
for each mobile home space occupied by a single section mobile home.The dollar amount shall be
increased in the same manner prescribed by subsection D of this section.
2.Eight
Twelve hundred dollars for
each mobile home space occupied by a multisection mobile home. The dollar amount shall be increased in the same manner
prescribed by subsection D of this section.
H.The tenant
shall submit a contract for relocation of a mobile home for approval to the
director within sixty days after the relocation to be eligible for payment of
relocation expenses. The director must approve or disapprove the contract
within fifteen days after receipt of the contract, or the contract is deemed to
be approved.
H.The tenant
shall submit a relocation expense report to the director and the director shall
timely disburse monies to the tenant or the tenant's contractor as the move
progresses in order to maintain the moving schedule for that tenant.

I.If the
contract is approved On
execution of a moving contract, the final payment of relocation expenses shall be
made to the installer or contractor when both
of the following have been completed:
1.The
installer or contractor has obtained valid permits to move the mobile or
manufactured home to a new location.
2.the
installer or contractor provides documentation to the department that the
installation of the mobile or manufactured home at the new location is complete
and has been inspected by the department or its designee and is approved for
occupancy.
J.If the initial
contract to move is
not approved, the tenant may appeal to an administrative law judge pursuant to
title 41, chapter 16, article 5. The tenant shall provide notice pursuant to
section 331451, subsection A, paragraph 6 if the tenant relocates. 
K.If this state or a political subdivision of this
state exercises eminent domain and the mobile home park is sold or a sale is
made to this state or a political subdivision of this state that intends to
exercise eminent domain, the state or political subdivision is responsible for
the relocation costs of the tenants.
L.If a tenant is vacating the premises and has
informed the landlord or manager before the change in use notice has been
given, the tenant is not eligible for compensation under this section.
M.A person who purchases a mobile home already
situated in a park or moves a mobile home into a park in which a change in use
notice has been given is not eligible for compensation under this section.
N.The
LANDLORD shall not accept or solicit any new contracts for mobile HOMES or
recreational vehicles on the property that is the subject of THE proposed
change in use. This prohibition applies beginning on the initiation of change
in use proceedings with the city or town in which the property is located.
O.The
landlord of a property that is the subject of a proposed change in use shall
maintain the grounds and services on the property as provided in the rental
agreement Until all the tenants have vacated the property. A landlord who by
intimidation or subterfuge knowingly causes the tenant to vacate the property
before or during the change in use process is guilty of a class 6 felony. For
the purposes of this subsection, "Intimidation or subterfuge" includes
ending one or more utility services, bringing construction EQUIPMENT to the
property or initiating construction activities.
N.P.This section does
not apply to a change in use if the landlord moves a tenant to another space in
the mobile home park at the landlord's expense. END_STATUTE

