







REFERENCE TITLE: mobile home removal; licensure;
  noncompliance







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2259









Introduced by
Representative
  Brophy McGee





AN ACT

amending sections
33-1451, 41-2176 and 41-2186, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to mobile home
transactions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 33-1451, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-1451.Tenant to maintain mobile home space; notice of vacating;
clearance for removal; criminal violation
A.A tenant of a mobile home space shall exercise
diligence to maintain that part of the premises which he that the tenant has rented in as good condition as when he the tenant took possession and shall:
1.Comply with all obligations primarily imposed upon on tenants by applicable provisions of city,
county and state codes materially affecting health and safety.
2.Keep that part of the premises that he the tenant occupies and uses as clean and safe
as the condition of the premises permits.
3.Dispose from his the
tenant's mobile home space all rubbish, garbage and other waste
in a clean and safe manner as prescribed by park rules.
4.Not deliberately or negligently destroy, deface,
damage, impair or remove any part of the premises or knowingly permit any
person to do so.
5.Conduct himself and require other persons on the
premises with his the tenant's consent to conduct
themselves in a manner that will not disturb his the
tenant's neighbors' peaceful enjoyment of the premises.
6.Inform the landlord or manager of the mobile home
park at least thirty days before the expiration of the rental agreement that
the agreement will not be renewed by the tenant and that the premises will be
vacated.If timely notice is not given prior to moving from the
mobile home space, the tenant then
is responsible for rent equal to an amount consistent with the applicable
notice period.
B.A tenant shall not remove a mobile home from a
mobile home space unless the tenant has received from the landlord a clearance
for removal showing that all monies due the landlord as of the date of removal
have been paid or that the landlord and tenant have otherwise agreed to the
removal. The landlord shall not interfere with the removal of a mobile home for
any reason other than nonpayment of monies due as of the date of removal even
if the term of the rental agreement has not expired.
C.A person
shall not enter a mobile home park for the purpose of removing a mobile home
from a mobile home park without first receiving from the landlord a clearance
for removal as prescribed in section 33-1485.01. After demand by the landlord
or the landlord's agent to leave the premises, a person who violates this
subsection commits criminal trespass in the third degree pursuant to section
13-1502. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-2176, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2176.Issuance of a license
A.Upon
On receipt by the deputy
director of the nonrefundable fee required by this article and an application furnishing
complete information as required by the deputy director and upon on
the applicant taking and passing the applicable examination
required by section 412175, the deputy director shall issue a license to
the applicant, pending completion of the background analysis, permitting the
applicant to engage in business pursuant to this article for one year.
B.Pursuant to the agreement for conditional
license, the applicant shall agree to a revocation of the conditional license
if it appears, on review of the background analysis, that the applicant has
misrepresented its background. The applicant shall also agree to waive any
right the applicant may have to a stay of the effectiveness of any order of
revocation of the conditional license, the right to notice of hearing and the
right to a hearing before the revocation of the license.
C.The agreement for conditional license does not
prohibit the applicant from making a written demand for a hearing on the order
of revocation pursuant to chapter 6, article 10 of this title. Pending the
hearing, the applicant shall not continue to transact business under the
conditional license.
D.On completion of the background analysis, the
director may issue either a permanent or a probationary license, depending on
the results of the background analysis.
The director shall not issue a dealer or salesperson license to an applicant if
any of the following persons have been convicted of a felony or a crime
involving moral turpitude, including any conviction after a plea of nolo
contendere, or have been held liable in a civil court action for any act or
conduct that involves moral turpitude and that is substantially related to the
qualifications, functions or duties of the licensed activity:
1.For an
individual applicant, the applicant.
2.For an
applicant that is a partnership, one or more of the limited or general
partners.
3.For an
applicant that is a corporation, one or more of the officers or directors of
the corporation or, if the policy of the corporation will be directed,
controlled or managed by one or more stockholders, one or more of those
stockholders.
E.Licenses issued pursuant to this article and any
annual renewals shall be signed by the deputy director or the deputy director's
designated representative and by the licensee. The license is nontransferable
and satisfactory evidence of the possession shall be exhibited by the licensee upon on demand. The license held by the licensee
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises where any business is
being performed. A license card shall be carried by the person doing the work
away from the premises where the license is posted. The license number shall
be written on any contract entered into by the licensee.
F.If an application for a license is denied or if
the applicant fails to supply complete and correct required information within
ninety days or fails to pass the required written examination within ninety
days after filing or if an application for renewal is not completed by the
expiration date or if any applicant requiring examination after having been
notified by letter of the date to appear fails to appear for the examination
within ninety days from after the date of filing the
application, the fee paid by the applicant upon on
filing the application is forfeited and the application is
terminated. A reapplication for a license shall be accompanied by the fee
prescribed by the deputy director.
G.If, before the issuance of the license,
information brought to the attention of the deputy director concerning the
qualifications of the applicant is such that in the deputy director's
discretion it may be proper to deny the license, the deputy director may notify
the applicant that the license is denied and that the applicant may request in
writing a hearing if the applicant so desires.
H.The licensee may not engage in the sale of units,
either new or used, unless the licensee maintains an office where the records
are available for inspection and the location is listed on the license
application as the principal place of business. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-2186, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2186.Grounds for disciplinary action
The deputy director may, on the deputy director's own motion,
and shall, on the complaint in writing of any person, cause to be investigated
by the office the acts of any manufacturer, dealer, broker, salesperson or
installer licensed with the office and may temporarily suspend or permanently
revoke any license issued under this article, impose an administrative penalty
or place on probation any licensee, if the holder of the license, while a
licensee, is guilty of or commits any of the following acts or omissions:
1.Failure in any material respect to comply with
this article or article 2 of this chapter.
2.Violation of any rule that is adopted by the
board and that pertains to the construction of any unit or of any rule that is
adopted by the board and that is necessary to effectively carry out the intent
of this article, article 2 of this chapter or the laws of the United States or
of this state.
3.Misrepresentation of a material fact by the
applicant in obtaining a license.
4.Aiding or abetting an unlicensed person or
knowingly combining or conspiring with an unlicensed person to evade this
article or article 2 of this chapter, or allowing one's license to be used by
an unlicensed person or acting as an agent, partner or associate of an unlicensed
person with intent to evade this article or article 2 of this chapter.
5.Conviction of a felony.
6.The doing of a wrongful or fraudulent act by a
licensee that relates to this article or article 2 of this chapter, including,
beginning July 1, 2012, failure to comply with section 412180,
subsection A, or the doing of any other
wrongful or fraudulent act in conjunction with the sale, transfer or relocation
of a mobile home in this state.
7.Departure from or disregard of any code or any
rule adopted by the board.
8.Failure to disclose or subsequent discovery by
the office of facts that, if known at the time of issuance of a license or the
renewal of a license, would have been grounds to deny the issuance or renewal
of a license.
9.Knowingly entering into a contract with a person
not duly licensed in the required classification for work to be performed for
which a license is required.
10.Acting in the capacity of a licensee under any
license issued under this article in a name other than as set forth on the
license.
11.Acting as a licensee while the license is under
suspension or in any other invalid status.
12.Failure to respond relative to a verified
complaint after notice of such complaint.
13.Violation of title 28, chapter 10 or rules
adopted pursuant to title 28, chapter 10, except for the licensing requirements
of sections 284334, 284335, 284361, 284362, 284364,
284401 and 284402.
14.False, misleading or deceptive sales practices
by a licensee in the sale or offer of sale of any unit regulated by this
article or article 2 of this chapter.
15.Failure to remit the consumer recovery fund fee
pursuant to section 412189.
16.Acting as a salesperson while not employed by a
dealer or broker.
17.As a salesperson, representing or attempting to
represent a dealer or broker other than by whom the salesperson is employed.
18.Failure by a salesperson to promptly place all
cash, checks and other items of value and any related documents received in
connection with a sales transaction in the care of the employing dealer or
broker.
19.Failure to provide all agreed on goods and
services.
20.Failure to manufacture or install in a
workmanlike manner all subassemblies, units and accessory structures that are
suitable for their intended purpose.
21.Failure of the licensee to work only within the
scope of the license held.
22.An action by a licensee, who is also a mobile
home park owner, manager, agent or representative, that restricts a resident's
or prospective resident's access to buyers, sellers or licensed dealers or
brokers in connection with the sale of a home or the rental of a space, that
the department finds constitutes a violation of section 331434,
subsection B or section 331452, subsection E or that violates any law or
regulation relating to fair housing or credit practices.
23.An
action by a licensee that induces or is intended to induce a resident of a
mobile home park to violate the resident's rental agreement in order to effect
a sale of the resident's mobile home or that misrepresents to the resident's
landlord the price or terms of the sale of the resident's mobile home if
disclosure of the price or terms is required by the resident's rental
agreement.
24.Failure
of a licensee that is the responsible party pursuant to section 33-1485.01,
subsection A to restore the mobile home space pursuant to the rental agreement,
the mobile home park rules or section 33-1485.01, subsection D. END_STATUTE

