







REFERENCE TITLE: genetically engineered foods; labeling







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2275









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Clark, Espinoza, Hale: Gabaldn, Plumlee,
  Velasquez





AN ACT

Amending title 3,
chapter 19, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 3.1; relating to food
labeling.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 3, chapter 19, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 3.1, to read:
ARTICLE 3.1.LABELING OF FOOD
PRODUCED WITH GENETIC ENGINEERING
START_STATUTE3-3441.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Consumer"
means any person who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise agrees to
pay consideration for goods or services not for resale in the ordinary course
of the person's trade or business for one of the following purposes:
(a)The person's use or benefit.
(b)The use or benefit of the person's household or a member of
the person's household.
(c)In connection with the operation of a farm whether or not
the farm is conducted as a trade or business.
(d)The use or benefit of a person's business or in connection
with the operation of the person's business. 
2."Enzyme"
means a protein that catalyzes chemical reactions of other substances without
itself being destroyed or altered on completion of the reactions.
3."Food"
means food intended for human consumption.
4."Genetic
engineering" means a process by which a food is produced from an organism
or organisms in which the genetic material has been changed through the
application of one of the following:
(a)In vitro nucleic acid techniques, including recombinant DNA
techniques and the direct injection of nucleic acid into cells or organelles.
(b)The fusion of cells, including protoplast fusion, or
hybridization techniques that overcome natural physiological, reproductive or
recombination barriers, in which the donor cells or protoplasts do not fall
within the same taxonomic group and in a way that does not occur by natural
multiplication or natural recombination.
5."In
vitro nucleic acid techniques" means techniques, including recombinant DNA
or ribonucleic acid techniques, that use vector systems and techniques
involving the direct introduction into the organisms of hereditary materials
prepared outside the organisms such as micro-injection, chemoporation,
electroporation, micro-encapsulation and liposome fusion.
6."Manufacturer"
means a person who does any of the following:
(a)Produces a processed food or raw agricultural commodity
under its own brand or label for sale in or into this state.
(b)Sells in or into this state under its own brand or label a
processed food or raw agricultural commodity produced by another supplier.
(c)Owns a brand that it licenses or licensed to another person
for use on a processed food or raw commodity sold in or into this state.
(d)Sells in, sells into or distributes in this state a
processed food or raw agricultural commodity that it packaged under a brand or
label owned by another person.
(e)Imports into the United States for sale in or into this
state a processed food or raw agricultural commodity produced by a person
without a presence in the United States.
(f)Produces a processed food or raw agricultural commodity for
sale in or into this state without affixing a brand name.
7."Organism"
means any biological entity that is capable of replication, reproduction or
transferring of genetic material.
8."Processed
food" means any food other than a raw agricultural commodity and includes
any food produced from a raw agricultural commodity that has been subjected to
processing, including canning, smoking, pressing, cooking, freezing,
dehydration, fermentation or milling.
9."Processing
aid" means a substance that is any of the following:
(a)Added to a food during the processing of the food but that
is removed in some manner from the food before the food is packaged in a
finished form.
(b)Added to a food during processing, is converted into
constituents normally present in the food and does not significantly increase
the amount of the constituents naturally found in the food.
(c)Added to a food for its technical or functional effect in
the processing but is present in the finished food at levels that do not have
any technical or functional effect in that finished food.
10."Raw
agricultural commodity" means any food in its raw or natural state,
including any fruit or vegetable that is washed, colored or otherwise treated
in its unpeeled natural form before marketing. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE3-3442.Labeling of food produced with genetic engineering;
requirements
A.Except as
set forth in section 33443, food that is offered for sale by a retailer
shall be labeled as produced entirely or in part from genetic engineering if it
is a product that is offered for retail sale in this state and is entirely or
partially produced with genetic engineering.
B.If a food
is required to be labeled pursuant to subsection A of this section, it shall be
labeled as follows:
1.In the
case of a packaged raw agricultural commodity, the manufacturer shall label the
package offered for retail sale with the clear and conspicuous words
"produced with genetic engineering".
2.In the
case of any raw agricultural commodity that is not separately packaged, the
retailer shall post a label appearing on the retail store shelf or bin in which
the commodity is displayed for sale with the clear and conspicuous words
"produced with genetic engineering".
3.In the
case of any processed food that contains a product or products of genetic
engineering, the manufacturer shall label the package in which the processed
food is offered for sale with one of the following phrases:
(a)"Partially produced with genetic engineering".
(b)"May be produced with genetic engineering".
(c)"Produced with genetic engineering".
C.Unless
exempt under section 33443, a manufacturer of a food produced entirely
or in part from genetic engineering shall not label the product on the package,
in signage or in advertising as "natural", "naturally
made", "naturally grown", "all natural" or any words
of similar import that would tend to mislead a consumer.
D.This
section and the requirements of this article do not require:
1.The
listing or identification of any ingredient that is genetically engineered.
2.The
placement of the term "genetically engineered" immediately before any
common name or primary product descriptor of a food.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE3-3443.Exemptions from food labeling requirements
The following foods are
not subject to the labeling requirements of section 33442, subsection A:
1.Food
consisting entirely of or derived entirely from an animal that has not itself
been produced with genetic engineering, regardless of whether the animal has
been fed or injected with any food, drug or other substance produced with
genetic engineering.
2.A raw
agricultural commodity or processed food derived from a raw agricultural
commodity that has been grown, raised or produced without the knowing or
intentional use of food or seed produced with genetic engineering. Food is
deemed to comply with this paragraph only if the person otherwise responsible
for complying with the requirements of section 33442, subsection A with
respect to a raw agricultural commodity or processed food obtains, from the
person that sold the raw agricultural commodity or processed food to that
person, a sworn statement that the raw agricultural commodity or processed food
has not been knowingly or intentionally produced with genetic engineering and
has been segregated from and has not been knowingly or intentionally commingled
with food that may have been produced with genetic engineering at any time. In
providing the sworn statement, a person may rely on a sworn statement from the
person's own supplier that contains the affirmation set forth in this
paragraph.
3.Any
processed food that would be subject to section 33442, subsection A
solely because it includes one or more processing aids or enzymes produced with
genetic engineering.
4.Any
beverage that is subject to title 4.
5.Any
processed food that would be subject to section 33442, subsection A
solely because it includes one or more materials that have been produced with
genetic engineering if the genetically engineered materials in the aggregate do
not account for more than 0.9 percent of the total weight of the processed
food.
6.Food that
an independent organization verifies has not been knowingly or intentionally
produced from or commingled with food or seed produced with genetic
engineering. The division, after consultation with the department of health
services, shall approve the independent organizations from which verification
is acceptable under this paragraph.
7.Food that
is not packaged for retail sale and that is either:
(a)A processed food prepared and intended for immediate human
consumption.
(b)Served, sold or otherwise provided in any restaurant or
other retail food establishment that is primarily engaged in the sale of food
prepared and intended for immediate human consumption.
8.Medical
food as defined in 21 United States Code section 360ee (b)(3). END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE3-3444.Retailers; immunity
A.A
retailer is not liable for the failure to label a processed food as required by
section 33442 unless the retailer is the producer or manufacturer of the
processed food.
B.A
retailer is not liable for failure to label a raw agricultural commodity as
required by section 33442 if the retailer within thirty days after any
proposed enforcement action or notice of violation obtains a sworn statement in
accordance with section 33443, paragraph 2. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE3-3445.False sworn statement; penalties; unlawful practice;
enforcement
A.It is a
violation of this article for a person knowingly to provide a false sworn statement
under section 33443, paragraph 2 that a raw agricultural commodity or
processed food derived from a raw agricultural commodity has not been knowingly
or intentionally produced with genetic engineering and has been segregated from
and has not been knowingly or intentionally commingled with food that may have
been produced with genetic engineering at any time.
B.A person
that violates the requirements of this article is liable for a civil penalty of
not more than one thousand dollars per day per product. The calculation of the
civil penalty may not be made or multiplied by the number of individual
packages of the same product displayed or offered for retail sale. Civil
penalties assessed under this section shall accrue and be assessed per each uniquely
named, designated or marketed product.
C.The
associate director shall conduct investigations and bring enforcement actions
to enforce this article.
D.An act or
practice in violation of this article is an unlawful practice under section 441522
and is subject to enforcement through private action and prosecution by the
attorney general. The attorney general may investigate and take appropriate
action as prescribed by title 44, chapter 10, article 7. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE3-3446.Genetically engineered food labeling fund
A.The genetically engineered food labeling fund
is established to pay the costs and liabilities incurred by the division in
implementing and administering this article. The division shall administer the
fund. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. The fund
shall consist of legislative appropriations of settlement monies received by
the attorney general's office.
B.The associate
director may accept and spend federal monies and private grants, gifts,
contributions and devises to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
article. These monies do not revert to the state general fund at the end of a
fiscal year. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Rulemaking
The director of the Arizona department of agriculture may adopt by rule
requirements for the implementation title 3, chapter 19, article 3.1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as added by this act, including both of the following:
1.A requirement that the label required for food
produced from genetic engineering include a disclaimer that the United States
food and drug administration does not consider foods produced from genetic
engineering to be materially different from other foods.
2.Notwithstanding section 3-3442, subsection B,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, a requirement that a label
required under title 3, chapter 19, article 3.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, identify food produced entirely or in part from genetic
engineering in a manner consistent with requirements in other jurisdictions for
the labeling of food, including the labeling of food produced with genetic
engineering.
Sec.3.Effective date
This act is effective from and after June 30, 2017.
Sec.4.Severability
If a provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of the act that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

