







REFERENCE TITLE: lieutenant governor; duties; ballot







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2252









Introduced by
Representative
  Mesnard





AN ACT

amending sections
16301, 16341 and 41701, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to the office of the lieutenant governor.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-301.Nomination of candidates for printing on official ballot
of general or special election
A.
At a primary election, each political party entitled and intending to make
nominations for the ensuing general or special election shall, if it desires to have the names of its
candidates printed on the official ballot at such the
general or special election, shall nominate its candidates for all
elective, senatorial, congressional, state, judicial, county and precinct
offices to be filled at such election except as provided in section 16344.
B.Not later
than sixty days before the date of the general election, a candidate for
governor shall submit to the secretary of state the name of the person who will
be the joint candidate for lieutenant governor with that gubernatorial
candidate and whose name will appear on the general election ballot jointly
with the candidate for governor. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-341.Nomination petition; method and time of filing; form;
qualifications and number of petitioners required
A.Any qualified elector who is not a registered
member of a political party that is recognized pursuant to this title may be
nominated as a candidate for public office otherwise than by primary election
or by party committee pursuant to this section.
B.This article shall not be used to place on the
general election ballot the name of a political party that fails to meet the
qualifications specified in section 16802 or 16804, or the name
of any candidate representing such party or the name of a candidate who has
filed a nomination petition in the immediately preceding primary election and
has failed to qualify as the result of an insufficient number of valid
signatures.
C.A nomination petition stating the name of the
office to be filled, the name and residence of the candidate and other
information required by this section shall be filed with the same officer with
whom primary nomination papers and petitions are required to be filed as
prescribed in section 16311. Except for candidates for the office of
presidential elector filed pursuant to this section, the petition shall be
filed at the same time as primary nomination papers and petitions are required
to be filed as prescribed by section 16311. The petition shall be
signed only by voters who have not signed the nomination petitions of a
candidate for the office to be voted for at that primary election.
D.The nomination petition shall be in substantially
the following form:
The undersigned, qualified
electors of __________ county, state of Arizona, do hereby nominate __________,
who resides at __________ in the county of __________, as a candidate for the
office of __________ at the general (or special, as the case may be) election
to be held on the __________ day of __________, _____.
I hereby declare that I have not signed the nomination
petitions of any candidate for the office to be voted for at this primary
election, and I do hereby select the following designation under which name the
said candidate shall be placed on the official ballot (here insert such designation
not exceeding three words in length as the signers may select).
E.The nomination petition shall conform as nearly
as possible to the provisions relating to nomination petitions of candidates to
be voted for at primary elections and shall be signed by at least the number of
persons who are registered to vote determined by calculating three per cent percent of the persons who are registered to
vote of the state, county, subdivision or district for which the candidate is
nominated who are not members of a political party that is qualified to be
represented by an official party ballot at the next ensuing primary election
and accorded representation on the general election ballot.
F.The percentage of persons who are registered to
vote necessary to sign the nomination petition shall be determined by the total
number of registered voters from other than political parties that are
qualified to be represented by an official party ballot at the next ensuing
primary election and accorded representation on the general election ballot in
the state, county, subdivision or district on March 1 of the year in which the
general election is held. Notwithstanding the method prescribed by subsection
E of this section and this subsection for calculating the minimum number of
signatures necessary, any person who is registered to vote in the state,
county, subdivision or district for which the candidate is nominated is
eligible to sign the nomination petition without regard to the signer's party
affiliation.
G.A nomination petition for any candidate may be
circulated by a person who is not a resident of this state but who is otherwise
eligible to register to vote in this state if that person registers as a
circulator with the secretary of state before circulating petitions. The
nomination petition for the office of presidential elector shall include a
group of names of candidates equal to the number of United States senators and
representatives in Congress from this state instead of separate nomination
petitions for each candidate for the office of presidential
elector.A valid signature on a petition containing a group of
presidential electors candidates is counted as a signature for the nomination
of each of the candidates. The presidential candidate whom the candidates for
presidential elector will represent shall designate in writing to the secretary
of state the names of the candidates who will represent the presidential
candidate before any signatures for the candidate can be accepted for
filing.A nomination petition for the office of presidential elector
shall be filed not less than sixty nor more than ninety days before the general
election. The petition shall be signed only by qualified electors who have not
signed the nomination petitions of a candidate for the office of presidential
elector to be voted for at that election.
H.The secretary of state shall require in the
instructions and procedures manual issued pursuant to section 16452 that
persons who circulate nomination petitions pursuant to this section and who are
not residents of this state but who are otherwise eligible to register to vote
in this state shall register as circulators with the office of the secretary of
state before circulating petitions. The secretary of state shall provide for a
method of receiving service of process for those petition circulators who are
registered.
I.A person who files a nomination paper pursuant to
this section for the office of president of the United States shall designate
in writing to the secretary of state at the time of filing the name of the
candidate's vicepresidential running mate, the names of the presidential
electors who will represent that candidate and a statement that is signed by
the vicepresidential running mate and the designated presidential electors
and that indicates their consent to be designated. A nomination paper for each
presidential elector designated shall be filed with the candidate's nomination
paper. The number of presidential electors shall equal the number of United
States senators and representatives in Congress from this state.
J.A candidate who does not file a timely nomination
petition that complies with this section is not eligible to have the
candidate's name printed on the official ballot for that office. The filing officer
shall not accept the nomination paper of a candidate for state or local office
unless the candidate provides or has provided all of the following:
1.The nomination petition required by this title.
2.A political committee statement of organization
or the five hundred dollar threshold exemption statement for that office.
3.The financial disclosure statement as prescribed
for candidates for that office.
K.Not later
than sixty days before the date of the general election, a candidate for
governor who files a nomination petition pursuant to this section shall submit
to the secretary of state the name of the person who will be the joint
candidate for lieutenant governor with that gubernatorial candidate and whose
name will appear on the general election ballot jointly with the candidate for
governor.
K.L.Except in cases where the
liability is being appealed, the filing officer shall not accept the nomination
paper of a candidate for state or local office if the person is liable for an
aggregation of one thousand dollars or more in fines, penalties, late fees or
administrative or civil judgments, including any interest or costs, in any
combination, that have not been fully satisfied at the time of the attempted
filing of the nomination paper and the liability arose from failure to comply
with or enforcement of chapter 6 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-701.Department of administration; lieutenant governor
A.A department of administration is established.
B.The direction, operation and control of the
department is the responsibility of the director
lieutenant governor.
C.The director
shall be appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the senate
and shall serve at the pleasure of the governor.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular
session.
Sec.5.Conditional enactment
This act does not become effective unless the Constitution of
Arizona is amended by vote of the people at the next general election by
passage of House Concurrent Resolution ____, fiftysecond legislature,
second regular session relating to the establishment of the office of
lieutenant governor.

