







REFERENCE TITLE: DCS; conforming and technical changes







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2236









Introduced by
Representative
  Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
8143, 8144, 8163, 8548.02 and 8864, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to child safety.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-143, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-143.Eligibility; limitation
Foster parents who are interested in adopting a child in their
home or any other persons interested in adopting a child under public or
private agency care, whether the adoption is through a public or private
agency, may apply to the department of
economic security to have the adoption of a child
subsidized.All persons approved for the program as adoptive parents
shall meet adoption agency standards except for the financial ability to
support the child.A subsidy shall not be denied solely on the
grounds that the child is placed for adoption through a private agency. END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Section 8-144, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-144.Subsidy agreement; duration; amount; periodic review;
confidentiality
A.The family entering into subsidized adoption and
the department shall sign a subsidy agreement which shall contain a provision
for periodic review as provided in subsection C of this section before the
final decree of adoption is issued, except as provided in subsection B of this
section. Adoption subsidies may commence with the adoption placement or after
the adoption decree, and will vary with the needs due to the special
circumstances of the adopted child as well as the availability of other
resources.
B.The adoption subsidy may continue through the age
of twentyone if the individual is enrolled in and regularly attending
school unless the person has received a high school diploma or certificate of
equivalency. The subsidy may be for special services only or for money
payments, and either for a limited period or for a long term, or for any
combination thereof.The amount of the subsidy shall not exceed the
payments allowable under foster family care.A special service
subsidy shall not exceed the reasonable fee for the service rendered in
accordance with costs and procedures for authorization of services as
determined by the department.
C.There shall be a periodic review which shall take
place at least once a year by the department to determine the appropriateness
and reasonableness of all subsidies and to ascertain the need for continuing or
adjusting the subsidy.
D.Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section,
an application may be made and granted on behalf of a child adopted pursuant to
the laws of this state at any time for a new or increased adoption subsidy upon on documentation of an undiagnosed condition which that existed before the finalization of the
adoption.
E.All records regarding subsidized adoption shall
be confidential and may be disclosed only in accordance with the rules of the
department of economic security.
END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
8-163, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-163.Eligibility
A.Parents who have
adopted a child with special needs may apply to the department of economic security for reimbursement of the
nonrecurring expenses of that adoption.
B.To be eligible for reimbursement, the application
must document the following:
1.The child cannot or should not be returned to the
home of his the child's parents.
2.The special needs of the child require financial
assistance in order to place that child with the adoptive parents.
3.Reasonable effort has been made to place the
child without providing reimbursement for nonrecurring adoption expenses,
unless this is against the best interests of the child.
C.The department shall review the completed
application, including supporting documentation provided by the applicant, to
determine eligibility for reimbursement of nonrecurring adoption expenses. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 8-548.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-548.02.Interstate compact administrator
Pursuant to the compact the governor shall designate the
director of the state
department of economic security
as the compact administrator. The compact administrator, acting jointly with
like officers of other party states, shall promulgate rules and regulations to
carry out more effectively the terms of the compact.The compact
administrator shall cooperate with all departments, agencies and officers of
and in the government of this state and its subdivisions in facilitating the proper
administration of the compact or of any supplementary agreement or agreements
entered into by this state thereunder. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 8-864, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-864.Timing of motions and hearings; consolidation of hearings
Notwithstanding any other statute, the court may order or
permit the filing of a motion for termination or permanent guardianship before
the permanency hearing is held, consolidate hearings or provide for a different
order of hearings if:
1.The permanency hearing is held no later than the
time prescribed in section 8862, subsection A.
2.The termination hearing is held no later than the
time prescribed in section 8862, subsection D, paragraph 2.
3.The permanent guardianship hearing is held no
later than the time prescribed in section 8862, subsection E F, paragraph 2. END_STATUTE

