







REFERENCE TITLE: DCS; child abuse; neglect; reports







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2269









Introduced by
Representative
  Allen J





AN ACT

amending section
8804.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to dependent children.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-804.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-804.01.Maintenance of reports; records
A.All reports of child abuse and neglect and
related records shall be maintained in the department's case management
information system in accordance with the time frames established in the
department's records retention schedule.
B.In addition to the purposes prescribed in section
8807, reports and related records maintained pursuant to subsection A of
this section shall be used by the department only for the following purposes:
1.To assess the safety and risk to a child when
conducting an investigation or identification of abuse or neglect.
2.To determine placement for a child that,
including determining what is the least restrictive setting.
3.To
license foster homes, to certify adoptive homes or to use in the department's
employment decisions.
3.4.To determine the
type and level of services and treatment provided to the child and the child's
family.
4.5.To assist in a
criminal investigation or prosecution of child abuse or neglect.
5.6.To meet state and
federal reporting requirements.
C.Notwithstanding section 8807 and except as
otherwise provided by law, reports and related records maintained pursuant to
subsection A of this section shall not be used for purposes of employment or
background checks, except for background checks conducted pursuant to section 8804,
subsectionB.Only information contained in the central
registry may be used to conduct background checks pursuant to section 8-804,
subsection B.
D.If probable cause exists that abuse or neglect of
a child has occurred, the department shall record this finding. The department
may make this finding independent of whether a specific person is identified as
responsible for the abuse or neglect.
E.If the department is unable to locate a child who
is the subject of a report of abuse or neglect, the department shall record
this finding separate from its other findings.
F.Subject to the requirements of sections 8804
and 8811, whenever possible, the department shall determine if a
specific person is responsible for the abuse or neglect of a child. END_STATUTE

