








REFERENCE TITLE: prime contracting classification; repeal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2267









Introduced by
Representative
  Cobb





AN ACT

amending sections
411516, 411532, 421103 and 425006, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing sections 425007 and 425008.01, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending sections 425009, 425010, 425032.01,
425032.02, 425040, 425061, 425071, 425075,
425155, 425159, 425160 and 42-6004, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending Title 42, chapter 6, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding section 42-6013; amending sections 426102 and 49290,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to transaction privilege and related taxes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1516, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1516.Healthy forest enterprise incentives; definitions
A.The Arizona commerce authority shall:
1.Implement a program to encourage counties, cities
and towns to provide local incentives to economic enterprises that promote
forest health in this state.
2.Identify and certify to the department of revenue
the names of and relevant information relating to qualified businesses for the
purposes of available state tax incentives for economic enterprises that
promote forest health in this state.
B.To qualify for state tax incentives pursuant to
this section, a business:
1.Must be primarily engaged in a qualifying
project.The business shall submit to the authority evidence that it
is engaged in a qualifying project as follows:
(a)The business operation must enhance or sustain
forest health, sustain or recover watershed or improve public safety.
(b)If the qualifying forest product is on federal
land, the business shall submit a letter from the federal agency administering
the land, or official records or documents produced in connection with the
project, stating that the business is primarily engaged in the business of
harvesting or processing qualifying forest products for commercial use as
follows:
(i)At least seventy per cent percent of the harvested or processed products, measured by
weight, must be qualifying forest products.
(ii)At least seventy-five per cent percent of the qualifying forest products, measured by
weight, must be harvested from sources in this state.
(c)If the qualifying forest product is not on
federal land, the business shall submit a letter from the state forester
stating that the business is primarily engaged in the business of harvesting or
processing qualifying forest products for commercial use as follows:
(i)At least seventy per cent percent of the harvested or processed products must be
qualifying forest products.
(ii)At least seventyfive per cent percent of the harvested or processed products must be from
areas in this state.
(d)If the business is engaged in transporting
qualifying forest products, it must submit a letter from the state forester or
United States forest service, or official records or documents produced in
connection with the project, stating that all of the qualifying forest products
it transports are harvested from areas in this state.In addition,
the business must submit evidence to the authority that at least seventy-five per cent percent of the mileage traveled by its units
each year are for transporting qualifying forest products from or to qualifying
projects described in subdivision (b) or (c) of this paragraph, unless a lower
mileage is due to forest closures or weather conditions that are beyond the
control of the business.
2.Must employ at least one permanent full-time
employee.
3.Must agree to furnish to the authority information
relating to the amount of state tax benefits that the business receives each
year.
4.Must enter into a memorandum of understanding
with the authority containing:
(a)Employment goals. Each year the business must
report in writing to the authority its performance in achieving the goals.
(b)A commitment to continue in business and use the
qualifying equipment primarily on qualifying projects in this state as
described in paragraph 1 of this subsection, other than for reasons beyond the
control of the business. The authority shall consult with the department of
revenue in designing the memorandum of understanding to incorporate the legal
qualifications for the available tax incentives and shall include the
requirement that any qualifying equipment that is purchased or leased free of
transaction privilege or use tax must continue to be used in this state for the
term of the memorandum of understanding or the duration of its operational
life, whichever is shorter.
(c)Provisions considered necessary by the authority
to ensure the competency and responsibility of businesses that qualify under
this section, including registration or other accreditation with trade and
professional organizations and compliance with best management and operational
practices used by governmental agencies in awarding forestry contracts.
(d)The authorization for the authority to
terminate, adjust or recapture all or part of the tax benefits provided to the
business on noncompliance with the law, noncompliance with the terms of the
memorandum or violation of the terms of any contracts with the federal or state
government relating to the qualifying project.The authority shall
notify the department of revenue of the conditions of noncompliance. The
department of revenue may also terminate the certification if it obtains
information indicating a failure to qualify and comply.The
department of revenue may require the business to file appropriate amended tax
returns or to file appropriate use tax returns reflecting the recapture of the
direct or indirect tax benefits.
5.Must submit a copy of the certification to the
department of revenue for approval before using the certification for purposes
of any tax incentive.The department of revenue shall review and
approve the certification in a timely manner if the business is in good
standing with the department and is not delinquent in the payment of any tax
collected by the department. A failure to approve or deny the certification
within sixty days after the date the business submits it to the department
constitutes approval of the certification.
C.For the purposes of section 425075,
subsection B, paragraph 18, the authority shall certify prime contractors that
contract for the construction of any building, or other structure, project,
development or improvement owned by a qualified business for purposes of a
qualifying project described in subsection B, paragraph 1 of this section.
D.C.To obtain and maintain
certification under this section, a business must:
1.Apply to the
authority.
2.Submit and retain copies of all required
information, including information relating to the actual or projected number
of employees in this state.
3.Allow inspections and audits to verify the
qualification and accuracy of information submitted to the authority.
E.D.Certification
under this section is valid for sixty calendar months from the date of
issuance. A business must apply for recertification at least thirty days
before the current certification expires.The application for
recertification shall be in a form prescribed by the authority and shall
confirm that the business is continuing in a qualifying project and is in
compliance with all requirements prescribed for certification.
F.E.Within sixty days
after receiving a complete and correct application and all required information
as prescribed by this section, the authority shall grant or deny certification
and give written notice by certified mail to the applicant. The applicant is
certified as a qualified business on the date the notice of certification is
delivered to the applicant.A failure to respond within sixty days
after receiving a complete and correct application constitutes approval of the
application.
G.F.The certification
shall state an effective date with respect to each authorized tax incentive, which, in each case, must be
at the start of a taxable year or taxable period.
H.G.On or before
March 1 of each year, each qualifying business shall make a report to the
authority on all business activity in the preceding calendar year. Business
information contained in the reports is confidential and shall not be disclosed
to the public except as provided by this section and except that a copy of the
report shall be transmitted to the department of revenue.The report
shall be in a form prescribed by the authority and include:
1.Information prescribed by the authority with
respect to both qualifying projects and other projects and business activity
that do not qualify for purposes of this section.
2.Employment information necessary to confirm
eligibility for income tax credits as prescribed by sections 431076 and
431162.
3.The quantity, measured by weight, of qualifying
forest products harvested, transported or processed.
I.H.On or before May
1 of each year, the authority shall report to the joint legislative budget committee:
1.The quantity, measured by weight, of qualifying
forest products reported by harvesters, by transporters and by processors in
the preceding calendar year.
2.The number of new full-time employees hired in
qualified employment positions in this state in the preceding calendar year and
reported for tax credit purposes.
3.The total number of all full-time employees
employed in qualified employment positions in this state in the preceding
calendar year and reported for tax credit purposes.
J.I.For purposes of
administering and ensuring compliance with this section, agents of the
authority may enter, and a qualified business shall allow access to, a
qualifying project site at reasonable times and on reasonable notice to:
1.Inspect the facilities at the site.
2.Obtain factual data and records pertinent to and
required by law to be kept for purposes of tax incentives.
3.Otherwise ascertain compliance with law and the
terms of the memorandum of understanding.
K.J.The authority
shall revoke the business' certification and notify the department of revenue
and county assessor if either:
1.Within thirty days after a formal request from
the authority or the department of revenue the business fails or refuses to
provide the information or access for inspections required by this section.
2.The business no longer meets the terms and
conditions required for qualification for the applicable tax incentives.
L.K.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Forest health" means the degree to
which the integrity of the forest is sustained, including reducing the risk of
catastrophic wildfire and destructive insect infestation, benefiting wildland
habitats, watersheds and communities.
2."Harvesting" means all operations
relating to felling or otherwise removing trees and other forest plant growth
and preparing them for transport for subsequent processing.
3."Processing" means:
(a)Any change in the
physical structure of qualifying forest products removed from a qualifying
project into a marketable commercial product or component of a product that has
commercial value to a consumer or purchaser and that is ready to be used with
or without further altering its form.
(b)Burning qualifying forest products in the
process of commercial electrical generation or commercial thermal energy
production for heating or cooling, regardless of the physical structure of the
forest product before burning.
4."Qualifying equipment" means
equipment used directly in harvesting or processing qualifying forest products
removed from a qualifying project. Qualifying equipment does not include
self-propelled vehicles required to be licensed by this state, but may include
other licensed vehicles as provided by this paragraph.Qualifying
equipment includes:
(a)Forest thinning and residue removal equipment,
including mulching and masticating equipment, fellerbunchers, skidders,
log loaders, portable chippers and grinders, slash bundlers, delimbers, log
trailers, chip trailers and other trailers that are uniquely designed for
handling forest products and that are licensed for operation on public
highways.
(b)Forest residue receiving and handling equipment,
including truck dumpers, log unloaders, scales, log decking facilities and
equipment and chip pile facilities.
(c)Sorting and
processing equipment, including portable and stationary log loaders, front end front-end loaders, fork lifts forklifts and cranes, chippers and grinders,
screens, decks and debarkers, saws and sawmill equipment, firewood processing,
wood residue baling and bagging equipment, kilns, planing and molding equipment
and laminating and joining equipment.
(d)Forest waste and residue disposal and processing
equipment, including:
(i)Processing and sizing equipment, hogs, chippers,
screens, pelletizers and wood splitters.
(ii)Transporting and handling equipment, including
loaders, conveyors, blowers, receiving hoppers, truck dumpers and dozers.
(iii)Waste use equipment, including fuel feed,
storage bins, boilers and combustors.
(iv)Waste project use equipment, including
generators, switchgear and substations and onsite distribution systems.
(v)Generated waste disposal equipment, including
ash silos and wastewater treatment and disposal equipment.
(vi)Shop and maintenance equipment and major spares
having a value of more than five thousand dollars each.
5."Qualifying forest products" means dead
standing and fallen timber, and forest thinnings associated with the harvest of
small diameter timber, slash, wood chips, peelings, brush and other woody
vegetation, removed from federal, state and other public forest land and from
private forest land.
6."Qualifying project" means harvesting,
transporting or processing qualifying forest products as required for
certification pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-1532, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1532.Tax incentives; conditions
A.A prime
contractor may qualify for an exemption from transaction privilege tax with
respect to activities in a military reuse zone as provided, and subject to the
terms and conditions prescribed, by section 425075, subsection B,
paragraph 4.
B.A.A taxpayer that
owns or leases income producing property located in a military reuse zone is
eligible for an income tax credit for net increases in employment of fulltime
employees who are primarily engaged in providing aviation or aerospace services
or in manufacturing, assembling or fabricating aviation or aerospace products
as provided, and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed, by section 431079
or 431167, as applicable.To qualify for a tax incentive
under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall:
1.Agree with the Arizona commerce authority in
writing to furnish information relating to the amount of tax benefits the
taxpayer receives for each taxable year in which the taxpayer claims the
credit. If the taxpayer fails to provide the required information, the
authority shall immediately revoke the taxpayer's qualification and notify the
department of revenue.
2.Enter into a memorandum of understanding with
this state through the authority containing employment goals. Each year in
which the taxpayer claims the credit,
the taxpayer shall report in writing to the authority its performance in
achieving the goals.The memorandum shall contain provisions that
allow:
(a)The authority to stop, readjust or recapture all
or part of the tax credit allowed to the taxpayer on noncompliance with the
terms of the memorandum.
(b)The authority to notify the department of
revenue of the conditions of noncompliance.
(c)The department of revenue to require the
taxpayer to file appropriate amended tax returns reflecting the recapture of
the tax credit.
C.B.Taxable property
in a military reuse zone that is devoted to providing aviation or aerospace
services or to manufacturing, assembling or fabricating aviation or aerospace
products qualifies for assessment as class six property as provided, and
subject to the terms and conditions prescribed, by sections 4212006 and
4215006.
D.C.To qualify for a
tax incentive described in subsection A
or C B of
this section, the taxpayer shall provide to the authority information relating
to the amount of tax benefits the taxpayer receives each year for each year in
which the taxpayer claims the incentives on forms prescribed by the authority.
If the taxpayer fails to provide the required information, the authority shall
immediately revoke the taxpayer's certification of eligibility and notify the
department of revenue.
E.D.Taxpayers who
qualify for tax incentives under subsection B A
or C B of this section shall be
certified by the authority as eligible for a five year five-year period, subject to termination in
the event of changed circumstances rendering the taxpayer no longer eligible.
F.E.Notwithstanding
subsection C B of this section, an insurer
located in a military reuse zone is eligible for a premium tax credit under
section 20224.04 for net increases in employment positions of residents
of this state. To qualify for a premium tax credit the insurer shall:
1.Agree with the authority in writing to furnish
information relating to the amount of premium tax credits the insurer receives
each year. If the insurer fails to provide the required information, the
authority shall immediately revoke the insurer's qualification and notify the
department of insurance.
2.Enter into a memorandum of understanding with
this state through the authority containing employment goals. Each year the
insurer shall report in writing to the authority its performance in achieving
the goals. The memorandum shall contain provisions that allow:
(a)The authority to stop, readjust or recapture all
or part of the premium tax credits provided to the insurer on noncompliance
with the terms of the memorandum.
(b)The authority to notify the department of
insurance of the conditions of noncompliance. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-1103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1103.Enjoining delinquent taxpayer from engaging or continuing
in business
A.In order to ensure or to compel payment of taxes
and to aid in enforcing this article, the director may apply to the tax court
to enjoin any delinquent taxpayer or person who may be or may become liable for
payment of any tax from engaging or continuing in business until the person
ceases to be a delinquent taxpayer or complies with other requirements which that are reasonably necessary to protect the
revenues of this state and which
that are prescribed by
the director.
B.On application for an injunction against a
delinquent taxpayer, the court may forthwith issue an order temporarily
restraining the taxpayer from doing business.The court shall hear
the matter within three days and, on a showing by a preponderance of evidence
that the taxpayer is delinquent and has been given notice of the hearing as
required by law, the court may enjoin the taxpayer from engaging or continuing
in business in this state until the taxpayer ceases to be delinquent.On
issuing an injunction, the court may also order the sheriff to seal the
taxpayer's business premises and may allow the taxpayer access to the premises
only on the approval of the court.
C.On application for an injunction against a person
other than a delinquent taxpayer, the court may issue an order temporarily
restraining the person from engaging or continuing in business.The
court shall hear the matter within three days and, on a showing that the person has been given
notice of the hearing as required by law, that demand has been made on the
taxpayer to furnish security, that the taxpayer has not furnished security and
that the director considers the collection from the primarily responsible
person of the total amount of tax due or reasonably expected to become due to
be in jeopardy, the court may forthwith enjoin the person from engaging or
continuing in business until the person complies in full with the demand of the
director for furnishing security.
D.The court shall not issue a temporary restraining
order or injunction under this section against any person who has furnished
security pursuant to section 421102, or 425006
or 425007.On
a showing to the court by any person against whom a temporary restraining order
or injunction has issued under this section that the person has furnished such
security, the court shall dissolve or set aside the temporary restraining order
or injunction. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-5006, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5006.Taxpayer bonds; out-of-state manufactured building dealers
A.Notwithstanding section 421102, the
department shall require a surety bond for each taxpayer who is required to be licensed under title 32, chapter 10 or
who is regulated under title 41, chapter 16, article 2, if the taxpayer's
principal place of business is outside this state or if the taxpayer has
conducted business in this state for less than one year.The
department shall prescribe the form of the bond. The bond shall be maintained
for a period of at least two years.
B.The bond, duly executed by the applicant as
principal and with a corporation duly authorized to execute and write bonds in
this state as surety, shall be payable to this state and conditioned on the
payment of all transaction privilege taxes incurred and imposed on the taxpayer
by this state and its political subdivisions.The bond shall be in
such an amount, but not
less than two thousand dollars, as will
assure to ensure the
payment of the transaction privilege taxes which that
may reasonably be expected to be incurred by the licensed
establishment for a period of one hundred fifty days.
C.The director, by rule, may establish classes of
expected tax liability in five thousand dollar increments, beginning with the
minimum bond amount prescribed in subsection B of this section.The
bond shall provide that after notice and a hearing the director may order
forfeited to this state and any affected political subdivision part or all of
the bond for nonpayment of taxes, interest and penalties.
D.A licensee on application for a new license
covered by subsection A of this section, renewal of a license covered by
subsection A of this section or transfer of a license covered by subsection A
of this section is exempt from posting a bond if the licensee has for at least
two years immediately preceding the application made timely payment of all
transaction privilege taxes incurred.
E.If a licensee is not exempt from this section,
the director may exempt the licensee if the director finds that the surety bond
is not necessary to insure ensure payment of such taxes to
the state and any affected political subdivision or the licensee had good cause
for the late or insufficient payment of the transaction privilege tax and
affiliated excise taxes incurred. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Repeal
Sections 42-5007 and 42-5008.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.6.Section
42-5009, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5009.Certificates establishing deductions; liability for making
false certificate
A.A person who conducts any business classified
under article 2 of this chapter may establish entitlement to the allowable
deductions from the tax base of that business by both:
1.Marking the invoice for the transaction to
indicate that the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
transaction was deducted from the tax base.
2.Obtaining a certificate executed by the purchaser
indicating the name and address of the purchaser, the precise nature of the
business of the purchaser, the purpose for which the purchase was made, the
necessary facts to establish the appropriate deduction and the tax license
number of the purchaser to the extent the deduction depends on the purchaser
conducting business classified under article 2 of this chapter and a
certification that the person executing the certificate is authorized to do so
on behalf of the purchaser.The certificate may be disregarded if
the seller has reason to believe that the information contained in the
certificate is not accurate or complete.
B.A person who does not comply with subsection A of
this section may establish entitlement to the deduction by presenting facts
necessary to support the entitlement, but the burden of proof is on that
person.
C.The department may prescribe a form for the
certificate described in subsection A of this section. Under such rules as it
may prescribe, the department may also describe transactions with respect to
which a person is not entitled to rely solely on the information contained in
the certificate provided for in subsection A of this section but must instead
obtain such additional information as required by the rules in order to be
entitled to the deduction.
D.If a seller is entitled
to a deduction by complying with subsection A of this section, the department
may require the purchaser that caused the execution of the certificate to
establish the accuracy and completeness of the information required to be
contained in the certificate that would entitle the seller to the deduction.
If the purchaser cannot establish the accuracy and completeness of the
information, the purchaser is liable in an amount equal to any tax, penalty and
interest that the seller would have been required to pay under this article if
the seller had not complied with subsection A of this section.Payment
of the amount under this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for
any tax imposed under article 4 of this chapter.The amount shall be
treated as tax revenues collected from the seller in order to designate the
distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
E.If a seller is entitled to a deduction by
complying with subsection B of this section, the department may require the
purchaser to establish the accuracy and completeness of the information
provided to the seller that entitled the seller to the deduction. If the
purchaser cannot establish the accuracy and completeness of the information,
the purchaser is liable in an amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest
that the seller would have been required to pay under this article if the
seller had not complied with subsection B of this section. Payment of the
amount under this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax
imposed under article 4 of this chapter. The amount shall be treated as tax
revenues collected from the seller in order to designate the distribution base
for purposes of section 425029.
F.The department may prescribe a form for a
certificate used to establish entitlement to the deductions described in
section 425061, subsectionA, paragraph 46 and section 425063,
subsection B, paragraph 3. Under rules the department may prescribe, the
department may also require additional information for the seller to be
entitled to the deduction.If a seller is entitled to the deductions
described in section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 46 and section 425063,
subsection B, paragraph 3, the department may require the purchaser who
executed the certificate to establish the accuracy and completeness of the
information contained in the certificate that would entitle the seller to the
deduction. If the purchaser cannot establish the accuracy and completeness of
the information, the purchaser is liable in an amount equal to any tax, penalty
and interest that the seller would have been required to pay under this
article. Payment of the amount under this subsection exempts the purchaser
from liability for any tax imposed under article 4 of this
chapter.The amount shall be treated as tax revenues collected from
the seller in order to designate the distribution base for purposes of section
425029.
G.If a seller claims a deduction under section 425061,
subsection A, paragraph 25 and establishes entitlement to the deduction with an
exemption letter that the purchaser received from the department and the exemption
letter was based on a contingent event, the department may require the
purchaser that received the exemption letter to establish the satisfaction of
the contingent event within a reasonable time.If the purchaser
cannot establish the satisfaction of the event, the purchaser is liable in an
amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest that the seller would have been
required to pay under this article if the seller had not been furnished the
exemption letter.Payment of the amount under this subsection
exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under article 4 of
this chapter. The amount shall be treated as tax revenues collected from the
seller in order to designate the distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
For the purposes of this subsection, "reasonable time" means a time
limitation that the department determines and that does not exceed the time
limitations pursuant to section 421104.
H.The department shall prescribe forms for
certificates used to establish the satisfaction of the criteria necessary to
qualify the sale of a motor vehicle for the deductions described in section 425061,
subsection A, paragraph 14, paragraph 28, subdivision (a) and paragraph 44 and
subsectionU.Except as provided in subsection J of this
section, to establish entitlement to these deductions, a motor vehicle dealer
shall retain:
1.A valid certificate as prescribed by this
subsection completed by the purchaser and obtained prior to the issuance of the
nonresident registration permit authorized by section 282154.
2.A copy of the nonresident registration permit
authorized by section 282154.
3.A legible copy of a current valid driver license
issued to the purchaser by another state or foreign country that indicates an
address outside of this state.For the sale of a motor vehicle to a
nonresident entity, the entity's representative must have a current valid
driver license issued by the same jurisdiction as that in which the entity is
located.
4.For the purposes of the deduction provided by
section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 14, a certificate documenting
the delivery of the motor vehicle to an outofstate location.
I.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 2 of this
section, if a motor vehicle dealer has established entitlement to a deduction
by complying with subsection H of this section, the department may require the
purchaser who executed the certificate to establish the accuracy and
completeness of the information contained in the certificate that entitled the
motor vehicle dealer to the deduction. If the purchaser cannot establish the
accuracy and completeness of the information, the purchaser is liable in an
amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest that the motor vehicle dealer
would have been required to pay under this article and under articles IV and V
of the model city tax code as defined in section 426051. Payment of the
amount under this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax
imposed under article 4 of this chapter and any tax imposed under article VI of
the model city tax code as defined in section 426051. The amount shall
be treated as tax revenues collected from the motor vehicle dealer in order to
designate the distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
J.To establish entitlement to the deduction
described in section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 44, a public
consignment auction dealer as defined in section 284301 shall submit the
valid certificate prescribed by subsection H of this section to the department
and retain a copy for its records.
K.Notwithstanding any other law, compliance with
subsection H of this section by a motor vehicle dealer entitles the motor
vehicle dealer to the exemption provided in section 426004, subsection
A, paragraph 4.
L.The department shall prescribe a form for a
certificate to be used by a person that is not subject to tax under section 425075
when the person is engaged by a contractor that is subject to tax under section
42-5075 for a project that is taxable under section 42-5075.The
certificate permits the person purchasing tangible personal property to be
incorporated or fabricated by the person into any real property, structure,
project, development or improvement to provide documentation to a retailer that
the sale of tangible personal property qualifies for the deduction under
section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 27, subdivision
(b).A prime contractor shall obtain the certificate from the
department and shall provide a copy to any such person working on the project.
The prime contractor shall obtain a new certificate for each project to which
this subsection applies.For the purposes of this subsection, the
following apply:
1.The person
that is not subject to tax under section 425075 may use the certificate
issued pursuant to this subsection only with respect to tangible personal
property that will be incorporated into a project for which the gross receipts
are subject to tax under section 425075.
2.The
department shall issue the certificate to the prime contractor on receiving
sufficient documentation to establish that the prime contractor meets the
requirements of this subsection.
3.If any
person uses the certificate provided under this subsection to purchase tangible
personal property to be used in a project that is not subject to tax under
section 425075, the person is liable in an amount equal to any tax,
penalty and interest that the seller would have been required to pay under this
article if the seller had not complied with subsection A of this section. Payment
of the amount under this section exempts the person from liability for any tax
imposed under article 4 of this chapter. The amount shall be sourced under
section 425040, subsection A, paragraph 2.
M.Notwithstanding
any other law, compliance with subsection L of this section by a person that is
not subject to tax under section 425075 entitles the person to the
exemption allowed by section 465, subsection (k) of the model city tax code
when purchasing tangible personal property to be incorporated or fabricated by
the person into any real property, structure, project, development or
improvement. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 42-5010, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5010.Rates; distribution base
A.The tax imposed by this article is levied and
shall be collected at the following rates:
1.Five percent of the tax base as computed for the
business of every person engaging or continuing in this state in the following
business classifications described in article 2 of this chapter:
(a)Transporting classification.
(b)Utilities classification.
(c)Telecommunications classification.
(d)Pipeline classification.
(e)Private car line classification.
(f)Publication classification.
(g)Job printing classification.
(h)Prime
contracting manufactured
building dealer classification.
(i)Amusement classification.
(j)Restaurant classification.
(k)Personal property rental classification.
(l)Retail classification and amounts equal to retail transaction privilege tax due
pursuant to section 425008.01.
2.Five and onehalf percent of the tax base
as computed for the business of every person engaging or continuing in this
state in the transient lodging classification described in section 425070.
3.Three and oneeighth percent of the tax
base as computed for the business of every person engaging or continuing in
this state in the mining classification described in section 425072.
4.Zero percent of the tax base as computed for the
business of every person engaging or continuing in this state in the commercial
lease classification described in section 425069.
B.Except as provided by subsection J I
of this section, twenty percent of the tax revenues collected at
the rate prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section from persons
on account of engaging in business under the business classifications listed in
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivisions (a) through (h) of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
C.Forty percent of the tax revenues collected at
the rate prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section from persons
on account of engaging in business under the business classifications listed in
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivisions (i) through (l) of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
D.Thirtytwo percent of the tax revenues
collected from persons on account of engaging in business under the business
classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
E.Fiftythree and onethird percent of
the tax revenues collected from persons on account of engaging in business
under the business classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 4 of this
section is designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
F.Fifty percent of the tax revenues collected from
persons on account of engaging in business under the business classification
listed in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is designated as
distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
G.In addition to the rates prescribed by subsection
A of this section, if approved by the qualified electors voting at a statewide
general election, an additional rate increment is imposed and shall be
collected through June 30, 2021.The taxpayer shall pay taxes
pursuant to this subsection at the same time and in the same manner as under
subsection A of this section.The department shall separately
account for the revenues collected with respect to the rates imposed pursuant
to this subsection and the state treasurer shall distribute all of those
revenues in the manner prescribed by section 425029, subsection E. The
rates imposed pursuant to this subsection shall not be considered local
revenues for purposes of article IX, section 21, Constitution of
Arizona.The additional tax rate increment is levied at the rate of
sixtenths of one per cent of the tax base of every person engaging or
continuing in this state in a business classification listed in subsection A,
paragraph 1 of this section.
H.Any
increase in the rate of tax that is imposed by this chapter and that is enacted
by the legislature or by a vote of the people does not apply with respect to
contracts entered into by prime contractors or pursuant to written bids made by
prime contractors on or before the effective date of the legislation or the
date of the election enacting the increase.To qualify for the
exemption under this subsection, the prime contractor must maintain sufficient
documentation, in a manner and form prescribed by the department, to verify the
date of the contract or written bid.
I.H.For taxpayers
taxable under this chapter other than
prime contractors taxable pursuant to section 425075:
1.Any increase in the rate of tax that is levied by
this article or article 2 of this chapter enacted by the legislature or by a
vote of the people does not apply for a period of one hundred twenty days from
the date of the tax rate increase to the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income from the business of the taxpayer with respect to written contracts
entered into before the effective date of the tax rate increase unless the
taxpayer has entered into a contract that contains a provision that entitles
the taxpayer to recover from the purchaser the amount of the additional tax
levied.
2.The provisions of this subsection apply without
regard to the accounting method used by the taxpayer to report the taxes
imposed under article 2 of this chapter.
3.The provisions of this subsection shall not be
considered in determining the rate of tax imposed under chapter 6, article 3 of
this title.
J.I.Zero percent of
the tax revenues that are collected at the rate prescribed by subsection A,
paragraph 1 of this section from persons on account of engaging in business
under the business classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 1,
subdivision (h) (l) of this section, and that are subject to any
distribution required by section 425032.02, is designated as
distribution base for the purposes of section 425029 until the total
amount subject to distribution pursuant to section 425032.02 has reached
the maximum amount prescribed by section 425032.02, subsection C.
Thereafter, twenty forty percent of the remaining
tax revenues is designated as distribution base for the purposes of section 425029
as provided by subsection B of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 42-5032.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5032.01.Distribution of revenues for tourism and sports authority
A.Each month the state treasurer shall pay, from
the amount designated as distribution base pursuant to section 425029,
subsection D, the amount determined under subsection B of this section to the
tourism and sports authority for deposit in the authority's facility revenue
clearing account established by section 5834.
B.The amount to be paid under subsection A of this
section is the total amount of state transaction privilege tax revenues
received from persons conducting business under:
1.The retail, amusement and restaurant
classifications at, or with respect to events held at, a multipurpose facility
that is owned or operated by the authority pursuant to title 5, chapter 8.
2.The retail, amusement and restaurant
classifications at, or with respect to, professional football contests that are
held beginning July 2001 in a stadium located on the campus of an institution
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
C.Each month
the state treasurer shall pay, from the amount designated as distribution base
pursuant to section 425029, subsection D, the total amount of state
transaction privilege tax revenues received from persons conducting business
under the prime contracting classification at a multipurpose facility that is
owned or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title 5,
chapter 8 for deposit in the authority's construction account established by
section 5833.END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section
42-5032.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5032.02.Distribution of revenues for city, town or county
infrastructure improvements related to manufacturing facilities; definitions
A.Subject to subsection B of this section, from and
after September 30, 2013 through September 30, 2023, each month the state
treasurer shall pay a city, town or county the amount determined under
subsection C of this section for the purpose of funding up to eighty per cent percent of the cost of public infrastructure
improvements for the benefit of a manufacturing facility.
B.The state treasurer shall not make any payments
under subsection C of this section until both of the following apply:
1.Twentyfive per cent percent of the capital investment that is certified under
subsection D of this section and that constitutes construction phase services, as defined in section 425075,
contracting activity has
been made by the manufacturing facility.
2.From and after June 30, 2014.
C.The amount to be paid to a city, town or county
under subsection A of this section is the total amount of state transaction
privilege tax revenues collected under section 425010, subsection A from persons conducting business under section
425075 derived from for sales of materials used in contracts to construct
buildings and associated improvements for the benefit of a manufacturing
facility. The amount to be distributed
each month shall be paid in equal installments over the life of the contract to
construct buildings and associated improvements for the benefit of the
manufacturing facility. The total amount paid to all cities,
towns and counties under this subsection shall not exceed a maximum of fifty
million dollars.
D.Before the commencement of the construction of
buildings and associated improvements for the benefit of a manufacturing
facility that will require a city, town or county to make infrastructure
improvements, the manufacturing facility shall file a sworn certification with
the Arizona commerce authority, and submit a copy of this sworn certification
to the applicable city, town or county, that the manufacturing facility agrees
to provide a copy of the construction
contract showing the cost of the materials to be used in the construction of
buildings and associated improvements for the manufacturing facility and to either:
1.Make at least five hundred million dollars in
capital investment if the manufacturing facility is located in a county that
has a population of eight hundred thousand persons or more.
2.Make at least fifty million dollars in capital
investment if the manufacturing facility is located in a county that has a
population of less than eight hundred thousand persons.
E.The certification under subsection D of this
section shall contain a sworn statement or certification, signed by an officer
of the manufacturing facility under penalty of perjury, that the information
contained is true and correct according to the best belief and knowledge of the
person submitting the information to the department after a reasonable
investigation of the facts.
F.On receipt of a sworn certification from a
manufacturing facility pursuant to subsection D of this section and before the
commencement of the construction of buildings and associated improvements for
the benefit of a manufacturing facility that will require a city, town or
county to make infrastructure improvements, the city, town or county shall
enter into a written agreement with the department.This agreement
and any amendments or changes to the agreement shall:
1.State the cost of the public infrastructure
improvements and separately identify the particular improvements that will be
made.
2.State that the monies received under this section
will be used exclusively to pay for public infrastructure improvements that are
necessary to support the activities of the manufacturing facility.
3.State that the city, town or county will pay a
minimum of twenty per cent percent of the cost of the
public infrastructure improvements with its own monies or with monies from the
manufacturing facility.
4.State that the city, town or county will
immediately notify the department when monies received under this section
exceed eighty per cent percent of the cost of the
infrastructure improvements and will return the amount of the excess to the
state treasurer for deposit to the state general fund.
5.Stipulate the actual amount of the construction
funding that will be derived from sources other than the state.
6.Identify
the persons who will be prime contractors on the construction of buildings and
associated improvements for the benefit of a manufacturing facility and state
that each prime contractor has been notified as to which portion of the
contractor's income shall be separately identified to the department pursuant
to section 425075, subsection H.
7.6.State that the
city, town or county agrees that any amounts paid by the department to a prime contractor as identified under paragraph
6 of this subsection resulting from an audit adjustment or claim for credit or
refund of taxes described in subsection C of this section city, town or county that exceed the amount
of the transaction privilege tax paid on the sale of materials used in the
construction of buildings or other associated improvements for the benefit of
the manufacturing facility shall be recovered by the department
from the city, town or county by reducing the amount paid to the city, town or
county under section 425029 from monies designated as distribution base
in the month next succeeding the month in which the adjustment or claim is
paid.
8.7.State that the
city, town or county agrees that the department will use the amounts subject to
any distribution required under subsection A of this section in calculating the
maximum amount set by subsection C of this section.
9.State that
the city, town or county agrees that if, on notification by the department, the
state treasurer ceases payments because of the condition described in
subsection G of this section, the city, town or county has no claim to
additional payments if the department subsequently pays amounts to a prime
contractor identified in an agreement with any city, town or county, as
described in paragraph 6 of this subsection, due to an audit adjustment or
claim for credit or refund of taxes described in subsection C of this section.
10.8.Provide any other
information deemed necessary by the department.
G.Each year
and on completion of the contract to construct buildings and other associated
improvements for the benefit of a manufacturing facility, the manufacturing
facility shall provide a reconciliation of the cost of materials used in the
construction of the buildings and other associated improvements, including
amounts representing a reimbursement of transaction privilege taxes paid by the
retailer.
G.H.On notification
by the department, the state treasurer shall cease payments under subsection A
of this section if either of the following occurs:
1.A city, town or county has received monies that
meet or exceed eighty per cent
percent of the cost of
the public infrastructure improvements that are necessary to support the
activities related to the manufacturing facility as described in the written
agreement pursuant to subsection F of this section.
2.The total amount subject to any distribution
required under subsection A of this section has met the maximum amount set by
subsection C of this section.
H.I.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Associated improvement" includes any
public infrastructure improvement that is made for the benefit of the
manufacturing facility outside of the parcel or parcels of real property where
the manufacturing facility is located.
2."Capital investment" means an
expenditure to acquire, lease or improve property that is used for the benefit
of a manufacturing facility, including land, buildings, machinery and fixtures.
3."Manufacturing facility":
(a)Means an establishment that is engaged in the
mechanical, physical or chemical transformation or fabrication of materials, substances
or components into new products in this state, that is classified within
sections 31 through 33 inclusive of the 2007 edition of the north American
industry classification system as published by the national technical
information service of the United States department of commerce and that agrees
to either:
(i)Make at least five hundred million dollars in
capital investment if the manufacturing facility is located in a county that
has a population of eight hundred thousand persons or more.
(ii)Make at least fifty million dollars in capital
investment if the manufacturing facility is located in a county that has a
population of less than eight hundred thousand persons.
(b)Does not include mining, milling or smelting
mineral ore or generating electricity.
4."Population" means the population
determined in the most recent United States decennial census or the most recent
special census as provided in section 286532.
5."Public infrastructure" means water
facilities, wastewater facilities and roads that are necessary to support the
activities of the manufacturing facility. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section
42-5040, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5040.Sourcing of certain transactions involving tangible
personal property; definitions
A.Except as
provided in section 425075, Retail sales of tangible
personal property shall be sourced as follows:
1.To the seller's business location if the seller
receives the order at a business location in this state.
2.Except as
provided in section 425008.01, To the purchaser's location
in this state if the seller receives the order at a business location outside
this state.
B.For the purposes of this section, an order is
received when all of the information necessary to accept the order has been
received by or on behalf of the seller, regardless of where the order is
accepted or approved. The place of business or residence of the purchaser does
not determine where the order is received.
C.The gross receipts from leasing or renting
tangible personal property shall be sourced as follows:
1.To the lessor's business location if the lessor
has a business location in this state.
2.To the lessee's address if the lessor does not
have a business location in this state. The gross receipts are taxable when
the property is shipped, delivered or otherwise brought into this state for use
in this state.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Lessee's address" means the
residential address of an individual lessee and the primary business address of
any other lessee.
2."Lessor's business location" means the
business address that appears on the lessor's transaction privilege tax
license. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 42-5061, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5061.Retail classification; definitions
A.The retail classification is comprised of the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail.The tax
base for the retail classification is the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income derived from the business. The tax imposed on the retail classification
does not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from:
1.Professional or personal service occupations or
businesses that involve sales or transfers of tangible personal property only
as inconsequential elements.
2.Services rendered in addition to selling tangible
personal property at retail.
3.Sales of warranty or service
contracts.The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal
property provided under the conditions of such contracts is subject to tax
under section 425156.
4.Sales of tangible personal property by any
nonprofit organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable
purposes and recognized by the United States internal revenue service under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
5.Sales to persons engaged in business classified
under the restaurant classification of articles used by human beings for food,
drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
6.Business activity that is properly included in
any other business classification that is taxable under this article.
7.The sale of stocks and bonds.
8.Drugs and medical oxygen, including delivery
hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the prescription of a member of the
medical, dental or veterinarian profession who is licensed by law to administer
such substances.
9.Prosthetic appliances as defined in section 23501
and as prescribed or
recommended by a health professional who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 29.
10.Insulin, insulin syringes and glucose test
strips.
11.Prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses.
12.Hearing aids as defined in section 361901.
13.Durable medical equipment that has a centers for
medicare and medicaid services common procedure code, is designated
reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a person who is licensed under title
32, chapter 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 17 or 29, can withstand repeated use, is
primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is generally not
useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is appropriate for
use in the home.
14.Sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this
state for use outside this state if the motor vehicle dealer ships or delivers
the motor vehicle to a destination out of this state.
15.Food, as provided in and subject to the
conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
16.Items purchased with United States department of
agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113;
91 Stat. 958) or food instruments issued under section 17 of the child
nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat. 3603; P.L. 99661, section
4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
17.Textbooks by any bookstore that are required by
any state university or community college.
18.Food and drink to a person that is engaged in a
business that is classified under the restaurant classification and that
provides such food and drink without monetary charge to its employees for their
own consumption on the premises during the employees' hours of employment.
19.Articles of food, drink or condiment and
accessory tangible personal property to a school district or charter school if
such articles and accessory tangible personal property are to be prepared and
served to persons for consumption on the premises of a public school within the
district or on the premises of the charter school during school hours.
20.Lottery tickets or shares pursuant to title 5,
chapter 5.1, article1.
21.The sale of cash equivalents and the sale of
precious metal bullion and monetized bullion to the ultimate consumer, but the
sale of coins or other forms of money for manufacture into jewelry or works of
art is subject to the tax and the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the redemption of any cash equivalent by the holder as a means of
payment for goods or services that are taxable under this article is subject to
the tax. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Cash equivalents" means items or
intangibles, whether or not negotiable, that are sold to one or more persons,
through which a value denominated in money is purchased in advance and may be
redeemed in full or in part for tangible personal property, intangibles or
services.Cash equivalents include gift cards, stored value cards,
gift certificates, vouchers, traveler's checks, money orders or other
instruments, orders or electronic mechanisms, such as an electronic code,
personal identification number or digital payment mechanism, or any other
prepaid intangible right to acquire tangible personal property, intangibles or
services in the future, whether from the seller of the cash equivalent or from
another person. Cash equivalents do not include either of the following:
(i)Items or intangibles that are sold to one or
more persons, through which a value is not denominated in money.
(ii)Prepaid calling cards or prepaid authorization
numbers for telecommunications services made taxable by subsection P of this
section.
(b)"Monetized bullion" means coins and
other forms of money that are manufactured from gold, silver or other metals
and that have been or are used as a medium of exchange in this or another
state, the United States or a foreign nation.
(c)"Precious metal bullion" means
precious metal, including gold, silver, platinum, rhodium and palladium, that
has been smelted or refined so that its value depends on its contents and not
on its form.
22.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel that are subject
to a tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, sales of use fuel to a
holder of a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued under section 285739,
sales of aviation fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under section 288344
and sales of jet fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under article 8 of
this chapter.
23.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in the business of leasing or renting such property under the personal
property rental classification if such property is to be leased or rented by
such person.
24.Tangible personal property sold in interstate or
foreign commerce if prohibited from being so taxed by the constitution of the
United States or the constitution of this state.
25.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)A qualifying hospital as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
(c)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the organization is dedicated to providing
educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family medical education training
for blind and visually impaired children and children with multiple
disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(d)A qualifying community health center as defined
in section 425001.
(e)A nonprofit charitable organization that has
qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that
regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no
cost.
(f)For taxable periods beginning from and after
June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that provides residential
apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a
facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the tangible personal
property is used by the organization solely to provide residential apartment
housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a facility
that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(g)A qualifying health sciences educational
institution as defined in section 425001.
(h)Any person representing or working on behalf of
another person described in subdivisions (a) through (g) of this paragraph if
the tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075, subsection
O by a contractor.
26.Magazines or other periodicals or other
publications by this state to encourage tourist travel.
27.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)a
person that is subject to tax under this article by reason of being engaged in
business classified under section 425075 or to a subcontractor working under the control of a person
engaged in business classified under section 425075, if
the property so sold is any of the
following:
(i)to be incorporated or
fabricated by the person into a
manufactured building. any
real property, structure, project, development or improvement as part of the
business.
(ii)Incorporated
or fabricated by the person into any project described in section 425075,
subsection O.
(iii)Used in
environmental response or remediation activities under section 425075,
subsection B, paragraph 6.
(b)A person
that is not subject to tax under section 425075 and that has been
provided a copy of a certificate under section 425009, subsection L, if
the property so sold is incorporated or fabricated by the person into the real
property, structure, project, development or improvement described in the
certificate.
28.The sale of a motor vehicle to:
(a)A nonresident of this state if the purchaser's
state of residence does not allow a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter and if the nonresident has secured a
special ninety day nonresident registration permit for the vehicle as
prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01.
(b)An enrolled member of an Indian tribe who
resides on the Indian reservation established for that tribe.
29.Tangible personal property purchased in this
state by a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section
501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code and that engages in and
uses such property exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical
disabilities if the programs are exclusively for training, job placement,
rehabilitation or testing.
30.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is
associated with a major league baseball team or a national touring professional
golfing association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
31.Sales of commodities, as defined by title 7
United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale in a warehouse in
this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a contract for
future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market regulated by the
United States commodity futures trading commission.
32.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if
the organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and
ranch animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
33.Sales of seeds, seedlings, roots, bulbs,
cuttings and other propagative material to persons who use those items to
commercially produce agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural
crops in this state.
34.Machinery, equipment, technology or related
supplies that are only useful to assist a person with a physical disability as
defined in section 46191 or a person who has a developmental disability
as defined in section 36551 or has a head injury as defined in section
413201 to be more independent and functional.
35.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
36.Paper machine clothing, such as forming fabrics
and dryer felts, sold to a paper manufacturer and directly used or consumed in
paper manufacturing.
37.Coal, petroleum, coke, natural gas, virgin fuel
oil and electricity sold to a qualified environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 and directly used
or consumed in the generation or provision of on-site power or energy solely
for environmental technology manufacturing, producing or processing or
environmental protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full
consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper
manufacturing machine is placed in service. In the case of an environmental
technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does not manufacture paper,
the time period shall begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing
or production equipment is placed in service.
38.Sales of liquid, solid or gaseous chemicals used
in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining, refining, metallurgical
operations, research and development and, beginning on January 1, 1999,
printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as part of an integrated
system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the materials from which the
product is produced for the purpose of causing or permitting a chemical or
physical change to occur in the materials as part of the production process.
This paragraph does not include chemicals that are used or consumed in
activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but does not affect any
deduction for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by this section. For
the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a commercial
printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing, copying and
bookbinding.
39.Through December 31, 1994, personal property
liquidation transactions, conducted by a personal property liquidator. From
and after December 31, 1994, personal property liquidation transactions shall
be taxable under this section provided that nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to authorize the taxation of casual activities or transactions under
this chapter. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Personal property liquidation
transaction" means a sale of personal property made by a personal property
liquidator acting solely on behalf of the owner of the personal property sold
at the dwelling of the owner or on the death of any owner, on behalf of the
surviving spouse, if any, any devisee or heir or the personal representative of
the estate of the deceased, if one has been appointed.
(b)"Personal property liquidator" means a
person who is retained to conduct a sale in a personal property liquidation
transaction.
40.Sales of food, drink and condiment for
consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or other institution under
the jurisdiction of the state department of corrections, the department of
public safety, the department of juvenile corrections or a county sheriff.
41.A motor vehicle and any repair and replacement
parts and tangible personal property becoming a part of such motor vehicle sold
to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28, chapter 16,
article 4 and who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting such
property.
42.Livestock and poultry feed, salts, vitamins and
other additives for livestock or poultry consumption that are sold to persons
who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry
products or who are engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For
the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
43.Sales of implants used as growth promotants and
injectable medicines, not already exempt under paragraph 8 of this subsection,
for livestock or poultry owned by or in possession of persons who are engaged
in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry products or who are
engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
44.Sales of motor vehicles at auction to
nonresidents of this state for use outside this state if the vehicles are
shipped or delivered out of this state, regardless of where title to the motor
vehicles passes or its free on board point.
45.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in business and subject to tax under the transient lodging
classification if the tangible personal property is a personal hygiene item or
articles used by human beings for food, drink or condiment, except alcoholic
beverages, that are furnished without additional charge to and intended to be
consumed by the transient during the transient's occupancy.
46.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
47.Sales of materials that are purchased by or for
publicly funded libraries including school district libraries, charter school
libraries, community college libraries, state university libraries or federal,
state, county or municipal libraries for use by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or photographic materials, beginning
August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or digital media materials, beginning
July 17, 1994.
48.Tangible personal property sold to a commercial
airline and consisting of food, beverages and condiments and accessories used
for serving the food and beverages, if those items are to be provided without
additional charge to passengers for consumption in flight. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "commercial airline" means a person holding a federal
certificate of public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit
for air transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
49.Sales of alternative fuel vehicles if the
vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted to operate on
alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a conventional diesel fuel
motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215.
50.Sales of any spirituous, vinous or malt liquor
by a person that is licensed in this state as a wholesaler by the department of
liquor licenses and control pursuant to title 4, chapter 2, article 1.
51.Sales of tangible personal property to be
incorporated or installed as part of environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
52.51.Sales of
tangible personal property by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from
taxation under section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the
organization produces, organizes or promotes cultural or civic related
festivals or events and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
53.52.Application
services that are designed to assess or test student learning or to promote
curriculum design or enhancement purchased by or for any school district,
charter school, community college or state university. For the purposes of
this paragraph:
(a)"Application services" means software
applications provided remotely using hypertext transfer protocol or another
network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum design or enhancement"
means planning, implementing or reporting on courses of study, lessons,
assignments or other learning activities.
54.53.Sales of motor
vehicle fuel and use fuel to a qualified business under section 411516
for off-road use in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest
products removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
55.54.Sales of repair
parts installed in equipment used directly by a qualified business under section
411516 in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest
products removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
56.55.Sales or other
transfers of renewable energy credits or any other unit created to track energy
derived from renewable energy resources. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"renewable energy credit" means a unit created administratively by
the corporation commission or governing body of a public power utility to track
kilowatt hours of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the
kilowatt hour equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by
distributed renewable energy resources.
57.56.Computer data
center equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation
tenant of the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner,
operator or qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use
in a computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority
under section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of
purchase, the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to
the retailer its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519
and that establishes its qualification for the deduction.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "computer data center", "computer
data center equipment", "qualification period" and
"qualified colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in
section 411519.
58.57.Orthodontic
devices dispensed by a dental professional who is licensed under title 32,
chapter 11 to a patient as part of the practice of dentistry.
59.58.Sales of
tangible personal property that is
incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075, subsection O, undertaken by a contractor pursuant to a
contract with the owner of real property or improvements to real property and that
is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for which
the owner, as defined in section 425075,
of the project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of
this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated Indian" means an
individual native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was established.
(b)"Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by treaty, law or executive
order and that are recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe" means any organized
nation, tribe, band or community that is recognized as an Indian tribe by the
United States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under
the laws of the Indian tribe.
(d)"Owner" means the
person that holds title to the real property or improvements to real property
that is the subject of the work, as well as an agent of the title holder and
any person with the authority to perform or authorize work on the real property
or improvements, including a tenant and a property manager.
B.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from sales of the following categories of tangible
personal property shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Machinery, or equipment, used directly in
manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining or metallurgical
operations. The terms "manufacturing", "processing",
"fabricating", "job printing", "refining" and
"metallurgical" as used in this paragraph refer to and include those
operations commonly understood within their ordinary meaning.
"Metallurgical operations" includes leaching, milling, precipitating,
smelting and refining.
2.Mining machinery, or equipment, used directly in
the process of extracting ores or minerals from the earth for commercial
purposes, including equipment required to prepare the materials for extraction
and handling, loading or transporting such extracted material to the
surface."Mining" includes underground, surface and open
pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal property sold to persons
engaged in business classified under the telecommunications classification, including a person representing or working on
behalf of such a person in a manner described in section 425075,
subsection O, and consisting of central office switching
equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment, microwave radio
equipment and carrier equipment including optical fiber, coaxial cable and
other transmission media that are components of carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment or transmission lines used
directly in producing or transmitting electrical power, but not including
distribution. Transformers and control equipment used at transmission
substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or transmitting
electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses, asses, sheep, ratites,
swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or production stock, including
sales of breedings or ownership shares in such animals used for breeding or
production.
6.Pipes or valves four inches in diameter or larger
used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial gas, water or coal slurry,
including compressor units, regulators, machinery and equipment, fittings,
seals and any other part that is used in operating the pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft, navigational and communication
instruments and other accessories and related equipment sold to:
(a)A person holding a federal certificate of public
convenience and necessity, a supplemental air carrier certificate under federal
aviation regulations (14 Code of Federal Regulations part 121) or a foreign air
carrier permit for air transportation for use as or in conjunction with or
becoming a part of aircraft to be used to transport persons, property or United
States mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
(b)Any foreign government.
(c)Persons who are not residents of this state and
who will not use such property in this state other than in removing such
property from this state.This subdivision also applies to
corporations that are not incorporated in this state, regardless of maintaining
a place of business in this state, if the principal corporate office is located
outside this state and the property will not be used in this state other than
in removing the property from this state.
8.Machinery, tools, equipment and related supplies
used or consumed directly in repairing, remodeling or maintaining aircraft,
aircraft engines or aircraft component parts by or on behalf of a certificated
or licensed carrier of persons or property.
9.Railroad rolling stock, rails, ties and signal
control equipment used directly to transport persons or property.
10.Machinery or equipment used directly to drill
for oil or gas or used directly in the process of extracting oil or gas from
the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban mass transit vehicles that
are used directly to transport persons or property for hire or pursuant to a
governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass transportation program and
that are sold to bus companies holding a federal certificate of convenience and
necessity or operated by any city, town or other governmental entity or by any
person contracting with such governmental entity as part of a governmentally
adopted and controlled program to provide urban mass transportation.
12.Groundwater measuring devices required under
section 45604.
13.New machinery and equipment consisting of
tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered implements,
machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and machinery and
equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip irrigation lines
not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and that are used for
commercial production of agricultural, horticultural, viticultural and
floricultural crops and products in this state. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"New machinery and equipment" means
machinery and equipment that have never been sold at retail except pursuant to
leases or rentals that do not total two years or more.
(b)"Selfpowered implements"
includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or equipment used in research and
development. For the purposes of this paragraph, "research and
development" means basic and applied research in the sciences and
engineering, and designing, developing or testing prototypes, processes or new
products, including research and development of computer software that is
embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or new product or that is
required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt under this section to
function effectively. Research and development do not include manufacturing
quality control, routine consumer product testing, market research, sales
promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or psychology, computer
software research that is not included in the definition of research and
development, or other nontechnological activities or technical services.
15.Tangible personal property that is used by
either of the following to receive, store, convert, produce, generate, decode,
encode, control or transmit telecommunications information:
(a)Any direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47 Code of Federal
Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite television or data transmission
facility, if both of the following conditions are met:
(i)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during the test period were
transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission services that operate pursuant to 47 Code of
Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of those direct broadcast
television or data transmission services during the test period were
transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of
this paragraph, "test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive
day period beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal
property is purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission service first transmits information to its
customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without regard
to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real property.
Clean room:
(a)Includes the integrated systems, fixtures,
piping, movable partitions, lighting and all property that is necessary or
adapted to reduce contamination or to control airflow, temperature, humidity,
chemical purity or other environmental conditions or manufacturing tolerances,
as well as the production machinery and equipment operating in conjunction with
the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the building or other
permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses the clean room
environment.
17.Machinery and equipment used directly in the
feeding of poultry, the environmental control of housing for poultry, the
movement of eggs within a production and packaging facility or the sorting or
cooling of eggs. This exemption does not apply to vehicles used for
transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or equipment, including related
structural components, that is employed in connection with manufacturing,
processing, fabricating, job printing, refining, mining, natural gas pipelines,
metallurgical operations, telecommunications, producing or transmitting
electricity or research and development and that is used directly to meet or
exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal energy regulatory
commission, the United States environmental protection agency, the United
States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department of environmental
quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent, monitor, control
or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and equipment that are sold to a
person engaged in the commercial production of livestock, livestock products or
agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or products in
this state, including a person
representing or working on behalf of such a person in a manner described in
section 425075, subsection O, if the machinery and
equipment are used directly and primarily to prevent, monitor, control or
reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or equipment that enables a television
station to originate and broadcast or to receive and broadcast digital
television signals and that was purchased to facilitate compliance with the
telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104; 110 Stat. 56; 47 United
States Code section 336) and the federal communications commission order issued
April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part 73). This paragraph does
not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or replacement parts purchased for the
machinery or equipment described in this paragraph.
(b)Machinery or equipment purchased to replace
machinery or equipment for which an exemption was previously claimed and taken
under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or equipment purchased after the
television station has ceased analog broadcasting, or purchased after November
1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment that is purchased from and
after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a qualified business under section
411516 for harvesting or processing qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516. To qualify for
this deduction, the qualified business at the time of purchase must present its
certification approved by the department.
C.The deductions provided by subsection B of this
section do not include sales of:
1.Expendable materials.For the purposes
of this paragraph, expendable materials do not include any of the categories of
tangible personal property specified in subsection B of this section regardless
of the cost or useful life of that property.
2.Janitorial equipment and hand tools.
3.Office equipment, furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal property used in selling or
distributing activities, other than the telecommunications transmissions
described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of this section.
5.Motor vehicles required to be licensed by this
state, except buses or other urban mass transit vehicles specifically exempted
pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this section, without regard to the
use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings, docks, depots and all other
materials of whatever kind or character not specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and equipment or other tangible
personal property used by a contractor in the performance of a contract.
D.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, there shall be deducted from the
tax base the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from sales of
machinery, equipment, materials and other tangible personal property used
directly and predominantly to construct a qualified environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing facility as described in section 411514.02.
This subsection applies for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years after
the start of initial construction.
E.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income from retail sales of heavy trucks and trailers does not
include any amount attributable to federal excise taxes imposed by 26 United
States Code section 4051.
F.If a person is engaged in an occupation or
business to which subsection A of this section applies, the person's books
shall be kept so as to show separately the gross proceeds of sales of tangible
personal property and the gross income from sales of services, and if not so
kept the tax shall be imposed on the total of the person's gross proceeds of
sales of tangible personal property and gross income from services.
G.If a person is engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at both wholesale and retail, the tax under this
section applies only to the gross proceeds of the sales made other than at
wholesale if the person's books are kept so as to show separately the gross
proceeds of sales of each class, and if the books are not so kept, the tax
under this section applies to the gross proceeds of every sale so made.
H.A person who engages in manufacturing, baling,
crating, boxing, barreling, canning, bottling, sacking, preserving, processing
or otherwise preparing for sale or commercial use any livestock, agricultural
or horticultural product or any other product, article, substance or commodity
and who sells the product of such business at retail in this state is deemed,
as to such sales, to be engaged in business classified under the retail
classification.This subsection does not apply to businesses
classified under the:
1.Transporting classification.
2.Utilities classification.
3.Telecommunications classification.
4.Pipeline classification.
5.Private car line classification.
6.Publication classification.
7.Job printing classification.
8.Prime
contracting Manufactured
building dealer classification.
9.Restaurant classification.
I.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the following shall be deducted from the tax base for the retail
classification:
1.Sales made directly to the United States
government or its departments or agencies by a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer.
2.Sales made directly to a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer if such sales are of any ingredient or component part of
products sold directly to the United States government or its departments or
agencies by the manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer.
3.Overhead materials or other tangible personal
property that is used in performing a contract between the United States
government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, including
property used in performing a subcontract with a government contractor who is a
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which title passes to the
government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
4.Sales of overhead materials or other tangible
personal property to a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer if the
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the property by the
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer will be exempt under paragraph 3
of this subsection.
J.There shall be deducted from the tax base fifty
percent of the gross proceeds or gross income from any sale of tangible
personal property made directly to the United States government or its
departments or agencies that is not deducted under subsection I of this
section.
K.The department shall require every person
claiming a deduction provided by subsection I or J of this section to file on
forms prescribed by the department at such times as the department directs a
sworn statement disclosing the name of the purchaser and the exact amount of
sales on which the exclusion or deduction is claimed.
L.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income does not include:
1.A manufacturer's cash rebate on the sales price
of a motor vehicle if the buyer assigns the buyer's right in the rebate to the
retailer.
2.The waste tire disposal fee imposed pursuant to
section 441302.
M.There shall be deducted from the tax base the
amount received from sales of solar energy devices.The retailer
shall register with the department as a solar energy retailer.By
registering, the retailer acknowledges that it will make its books and records
relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the department for
examination.
N.In computing the tax base in the case of the sale
or transfer of wireless telecommunications equipment as an inducement to a
customer to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications services
that are taxable under section 425064, gross proceeds of sales or gross
income does not include any sales commissions or other compensation received by
the retailer as a result of the customer entering into or continuing a contract
for the telecommunications services.
O.For the purposes of this section, a sale of
wireless telecommunications equipment to a person who holds the equipment for
sale or transfer to a customer as an inducement to enter into or continue a
contract for telecommunications services that are taxable under section 425064
is considered to be a sale for resale in the regular course of business.
P.Retail sales of prepaid calling cards or prepaid
authorization numbers for telecommunications services, including sales of
reauthorization of a prepaid card or authorization number, are subject to tax
under this section.
Q.For the purposes of this section, the diversion
of gas from a pipeline by a person engaged in the business of:
1.Operating a natural or artificial gas pipeline,
for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment to pressurize the
pipeline, is not a sale of the gas to the operator of the pipeline.
2.Converting natural gas into liquefied natural
gas, for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment used in the
conversion process, is not a sale of gas to the operator of the compressor
equipment.
R.For the purposes of this section, the transfer of
title or possession of coal from an owner or operator of a power plant to a
person in the business of refining coal is not a sale of coal if both of the
following apply:
1.The transfer of title or possession of the coal
is for the purpose of refining the coal.
2.The title or possession of the coal is
transferred back to the owner or operator of the power plant after completion
of the coal refining process.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"coal refining process"
means the application of a coal additive system that aids in the reduction of
power plant emissions during the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue
gas.
S.If a seller is entitled to a deduction pursuant
to subsection B, paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section, the department
may require the purchaser to establish that the requirements of subsection B,
paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied. If the
purchaser cannot establish that the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 15,
subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied, the purchaser is liable in
an amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest which that
the seller would have been required to pay under article 1 of
this chapter if the seller had not made a deduction pursuant to subsection B,
paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section. Payment of the amount under
this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under
article 4 of this chapter and related to the tangible personal property
purchased. The amount shall be treated as transaction privilege tax to the
purchaser and as tax revenues collected from the seller to designate the
distribution base pursuant to section 425029.
T.For the purposes of section 425032.01, the
department shall separately account for revenues collected under the retail
classification from businesses selling tangible personal property at retail:
1.On the premises of a multipurpose facility that
is owned, leased or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to
title 5, chapter8.
2.At professional football contests that are held
in a stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents.
U.In computing the tax base for the sale of a motor
vehicle to a nonresident of this state, if the purchaser's state of residence
allows a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax imposed by article 1 of
this chapter and the rate of the tax in the purchaser's state of residence is
lower than the rate prescribed in article 1 of this chapter or if the
purchaser's state of residence does not impose an excise tax, and the
nonresident has secured a special ninety day nonresident registration permit
for the vehicle as prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01,
there shall be deducted from the tax base a portion of the gross proceeds or
gross income from the sale so that the amount of transaction privilege tax that
is paid in this state is equal to the excise tax that is imposed by the
purchaser's state of residence on the nonexempt sale or use of the motor
vehicle.
V.The sale
of tangible personal property to a contractor, regardless of whether it will be
incorporated into a building or structure, is considered to be a sale at retail
and is subject to taxation under this section unless the contractor provides to
the retailer a certificate that is signed by the owner of the property to be
improved and that states that the personal property purchased by the contractor
will be used for a purpose identified in subsection A or B of this section. If
a person who is in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail
also engages in business as a contractor and removes tangible personal property
from retail stock for use in contracting activities, the purchase price of that
personal property is subject to use tax under section 425155.
V.W.For the purposes of this
section:
1."Aircraft"
includes:
(a)An airplane
flight simulator that is approved by the federal aviation administration for
use as a phase II or higher flight simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of
Federal Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal property that is permanently
affixed or attached as a component part of an aircraft that is owned or
operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or property.
2."Other accessories and related
equipment" includes aircraft accessories and equipment such as ground
service equipment that physically contact aircraft at some point during the
overall carrier operation.
3."Selling at retail" means a sale for
any purpose other than for resale in the regular course of business in the form
of tangible personal property, but transfer of possession, lease and rental as
used in the definition of sale mean only such transactions as are found on
investigation to be in lieu of sales as defined without the words lease or
rental.
W.X.For the purposes of subsection I
of this section:
1."Assembler"
means a person who unites or combines products, wares or articles of
manufacture so as to produce a change in form or substance without changing or
altering the component parts.
2."Manufacturer" means a person who is
principally engaged in the fabrication, production or manufacture of products,
wares or articles for use from raw or prepared materials, imparting to those
materials new forms, qualities, properties and combinations.
3."Modifier" means a person who reworks,
changes or adds to products, wares or articles of manufacture.
4."Overhead materials" means tangible
personal property, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from
that would otherwise be included in the retail classification, and that are
used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the cost of which is charged
to an overhead expense account and allocated to various contracts based on
generally accepted accounting principles and consistent with government
contract accounting standards.
5."Repairer" means a person who restores
or renews products, wares or articles of manufacture.
6."Subcontract" means an agreement
between a contractor and any person who is not an employee of the contractor
for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in part, are necessary
to the performance of one or more government contracts, or under which any
portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more government contracts
is performed, undertaken or assumed and that includes provisions causing title
to overhead materials or other tangible personal property used in the
performance of the subcontract to pass to the government or that includes
provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a government contract into
the subcontract. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 42-5071, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5071.Personal property rental classification; definitions
A.The personal property rental classification is
comprised of the business of leasing or renting tangible personal property for
a consideration. The tax does not apply to:
1.Leasing or renting films, tapes or slides used by
theaters or movies, which are engaged in business under the amusement
classification, or used by television stations or radio stations.
2.Activities engaged in by the Arizona exposition
and state fair board or county fair commissions in connection with events
sponsored by such entities.
3.Leasing or renting tangible personal property by
a parent corporation to a subsidiary corporation or by a subsidiary corporation
to another subsidiary of the same parent corporation if taxes were paid under
this chapter on the gross proceeds or gross income accruing from the initial
sale of the tangible personal property.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "subsidiary" means a corporation of which at least eighty
percent of the voting shares are owned by the parent corporation.
4.Operating coinoperated washing, drying and
dry cleaning machines or coinoperated car washing machines at
establishments for the use of such machines.
5.Leasing or renting tangible personal property for
incorporation into or comprising any part of a qualified environmental
technology facility as described in section 411514.02.This
paragraph shall apply for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years
following the initial lease or rental by each qualified environmental
technology manufacturer, producer or processor.
6.Leasing or renting aircraft, flight simulators or
similar training equipment to students or staff by nonprofit, accredited
educational institutions that offer associate or baccalaureate degrees in
aviation or aerospace related fields.
7.Leasing or renting photographs, transparencies or
other creative works used by this state on internet websites, in magazines or
in other publications that encourage tourism.
8.Leasing or renting
certified ignition interlock devices installed pursuant to the requirements
prescribed by section 281461. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"certified ignition interlock device" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 281301.
9.The leasing or renting of space to make
attachments to utility poles, as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in business under
section 425063 or 425064 or that is a cable operator.
(b)To a person that is engaged in business under
section 425063 or 425064 or that is a cable operator.
B.The tax base for the personal property rental
classification is the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
business, but the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
following shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Reimbursements by the lessee to the lessor of a
motor vehicle for payments by the lessor of the applicable fees and taxes
imposed by sections 282003, 282352, 282402, 282481
and 285801, title 28, chapter 15, article2 and article IX, section
11, Constitution of Arizona, to the extent such amounts are separately
identified as such fees and taxes and are billed to the lessee.
2.Leases or rentals of tangible personal property
that, if it had been purchased instead of leased or rented by the lessee, would
have been exempt under:
(a)Section 425061, subsection A, paragraph
8, 9, 12, 13, 25, 29, 49 or 53
52. 
(b)Section 425061, subsection B, except that
a lease or rental of new machinery or equipment is not exempt pursuant to:
(i)Section 425061, subsection B, paragraph
13 if the lease is for less than two years.
(ii)Section 425061, subsection B, paragraph
21.
(c)Section 425061, subsection I, paragraph
1.
(d)Section 425061, subsection M.
3.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel that are subject
to a tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, sales of use fuel to a
holder of a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued under section 285739
and sales of aviation fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under section 288344.
4.Leasing or renting a motor vehicle subject to and
on which the fee has been paid under title 28, chapter 16, article 4.
5.Amounts received by a motor vehicle dealer for
the first month of a lease payment if the lease and the lease payment for the
first month of the lease are transferred to a thirdparty leasing
company.
C.Sales of tangible personal property to be leased
or rented to a person engaged in a business classified under the personal
property rental classification are deemed to be resale sales.
D.In computing the tax base, the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income from the lease or rental of a motor vehicle does not
include any amount attributable to the car rental surcharge under section 5839,
285810 or 484234.
E.Until December 31, 1988, leasing or renting
animals for recreational purposes is exempt from the tax imposed by this
section. Beginning January 1, 1989, the gross proceeds or gross income from
leasing or renting animals for recreational purposes is subject to taxation
under this section.Tax liabilities, penalties and interest paid for
taxable periods before January 1, 1989 shall not be refunded unless the
taxpayer requesting the refund provides proof satisfactory to the department
that the monies paid as taxes will be returned to the customer.
F.For the purposes of this section:
1."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed by section 9505.
2."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 42-5075, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5075.Manufactured building dealer classification; exemptions;
definitions
A.The prime
contracting manufactured
building dealer classification is comprised of the business of prime contracting and the business of
selling manufactured building dealer buildings.Sales for resale to
another manufactured building dealer are not subject to tax.Sales
for resale do not include sales to a lessor of manufactured
buildings.The sale of a used manufactured building is not taxable
under this chapter.
B.The tax base for the prime contracting manufactured building dealer classification is
sixtyfive percent of the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived
from the business.The following amounts shall be deducted from the
gross proceeds of sales or gross income before computing the tax base:
1.The sales price of land, which shall not exceed
the fair market value.
2.Sales and
installation of groundwater measuring devices required under section 45604
and groundwater monitoring wells required by law, including monitoring wells
installed for acquiring information for a permit required by law.
3.2.The sales price
of furniture, furnishings, fixtures, appliances and attachments that are not
incorporated as component parts of or attached to a manufactured building or
the setup site. The sale of such items may be subject to the taxes imposed by
article 1 of this chapter separately and distinctly from the sale of the
manufactured building.
4.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income received from a contract entered into for the
modification of any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured
building or other structure, project, development or improvement located in a
military reuse zone for providing aviation or aerospace services or for a
manufacturer, assembler or fabricator of aviation or aerospace products within
an active military reuse zone after the zone is initially established or
renewed under section 411531.To be eligible to qualify for
this deduction, before beginning work under the contract, the prime contractor
must have applied for a letter of qualification from the department of revenue.
5.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract to construct a
qualified environmental technology manufacturing, producing or processing
facility, as described in section 411514.02, and from subsequent
construction and installation contracts that begin within ten years after the
start of initial construction.To qualify for this deduction, before
beginning work under the contract, the prime contractor must obtain a letter of
qualification from the department of revenue.This paragraph shall
apply for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years after the start of
initial construction.
6.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income from a contract to provide for one or more of
the following actions, or a contract for site preparation, constructing,
furnishing or installing machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property, including structures necessary to protect exempt incorporated
materials or installed machinery or equipment, and tangible personal property
incorporated into the project, to perform one or more of the following actions
in response to a release or suspected release of a hazardous substance,
pollutant or contaminant from a facility to the environment, unless the release
was authorized by a permit issued by a governmental authority:
(a)Actions to
monitor, assess and evaluate such a release or a suspected release.
(b)Excavation,
removal and transportation of contaminated soil and its treatment or disposal.
(c)Treatment
of contaminated soil by vapor extraction, chemical or physical stabilization,
soil washing or biological treatment to reduce the concentration, toxicity or
mobility of a contaminant.
(d)Pumping
and treatment or in situ treatment of contaminated groundwater or surface water
to reduce the concentration or toxicity of a contaminant.
(e)The
installation of structures, such as cutoff walls or caps, to contain
contaminants present in groundwater or soil and prevent them from reaching a
location where they could threaten human health or welfare or the environment.
This
paragraph does not include asbestos removal or the construction or use of
ancillary structures such as maintenance sheds, offices or storage facilities for
unattached equipment, pollution control equipment, facilities or other control
items required or to be used by a person to prevent or control contamination
before it reaches the environment.
7.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a contract for the
installation, assembly, repair or maintenance of machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property that is either deducted from the tax base of the
retail classification under section 425061, subsection B or that is
exempt from use tax under section 425159, subsection B and that has
independent functional utility, pursuant to the following provisions:
(a)The
deduction provided in this paragraph includes the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from all of the following:
(i)Any
activity performed on machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
with independent functional utility.
(ii)Any
activity performed on any tangible personal property relating to machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property with independent functional
utility in furtherance of any of the purposes provided for under subdivision
(d) of this paragraph.
(iii)Any
activity that is related to the activities described in items (i) and (ii) of
this subdivision, including inspecting the installation of or testing the
machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property.
(b)The
deduction provided in this paragraph does not include gross proceeds of sales
or gross income from the portion of any contracting activity that consists of
the development of, or modification to, real property in order to facilitate
the installation, assembly, repair, maintenance or removal of machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property that is either deducted from the
tax base of the retail classification under section 425061, subsection B
or exempt from use tax under section 425159, subsection B.
(c)The
deduction provided in this paragraph shall be determined without regard to the
size or useful life of the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property.
(d)For the
purposes of this paragraph, "independent functional utility" means
that the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property can
independently perform its function without attachment to real property, other
than attachment for any of the following purposes:
(i)Assembling
the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property.
(ii)Connecting
items of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property to each
other.
(iii)Connecting
the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property, whether as an
individual item or as a system of items, to water, power, gas, communication or
other services.
(iv)Stabilizing
or protecting the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
during operation by bolting, burying or performing other similar nonpermanent
connections to either real property or real property improvements.
8.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to the purchase of machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property that is exempt from or deductible
from transaction privilege and use tax under:
(a)Section 425061,
subsection A, paragraph 25, 29, 57 or 59.
(b)Section 425061,
subsection B.
(c)Section 425159,
subsection A, paragraph 13, subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (j), (k),
(m) or (n) or paragraph 54 or 56.
(d)Section 425159,
subsection B.
9.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income received from a contract for the construction
of an environmentally controlled facility for the raising of poultry for the
production of eggs and the sorting, cooling and packaging of eggs.
10.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from a contract entered into
with a person who is engaged in the commercial production of livestock,
livestock products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or
floricultural crops or products in this state for the modification of any
building, highway, road, excavation, manufactured building or other structure,
project, development or improvement used directly and primarily to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
11.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income that is derived from the installation,
assembly, repair or maintenance of clean rooms that are deducted from the tax
base of the retail classification pursuant to section 425061, subsection
B, paragraph 16.
12.For
taxable periods beginning from and after June 30, 2001, the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income derived from a contract entered into for the construction
of a residential apartment housing facility that qualifies for a federal
housing subsidy for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age and
that is owned by a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
13.For
taxable periods beginning from and after December 31, 1996 and ending before
January 1, 2017, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a
contract to provide and install a solar energy device.The
contractor shall register with the department as a solar energy contractor. By
registering, the contractor acknowledges that it will make its books and
records relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the department for
examination.
14.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract entered into for the
construction of a launch site, as defined in 14 Code of Federal Regulations
section 401.5.
15.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract entered into for the
construction of a domestic violence shelter that is owned and operated by a
nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code.
16.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from contracts to perform
postconstruction treatment of real property for termite and general pest
control, including wood destroying organisms.
17.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income received from contracts entered into before
July 1, 2006 for constructing a state university research infrastructure
project if the project has been reviewed by the joint committee on capital
review before the university enters into the construction contract for the
project.For the purposes of this paragraph, "research
infrastructure" has the same meaning prescribed in section 151670.
18.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income received from a contract for the construction
of any building, or other structure, project, development or improvement owned
by a qualified business under section 411516 for harvesting or
processing qualifying forest products removed from qualifying projects as
defined in section 411516 if actual construction begins before January
1, 2024. To qualify for this deduction, the prime contractor must obtain a
letter of qualification from the Arizona commerce authority before beginning
work under the contract.
19.Any amount
of the gross proceeds of sales or gross income attributable to development fees
that are incurred in relation to a contract for construction, development or
improvement of real property and that are paid by a prime contractor or
subcontractor.For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)The
attributable amount shall not exceed the value of the development fees actually
imposed.
(b)The
attributable amount is equal to the total amount of development fees paid by
the prime contractor or subcontractor, and the total development fees credited
in exchange for the construction of, contribution to or dedication of real
property for providing public infrastructure, public safety or other public
services necessary to the development.The real property must be the
subject of the development fees.
(c)"Development
fees" means fees imposed to offset capital costs of providing public
infrastructure, public safety or other public services to a development and
authorized pursuant to section 9463.05, section 111102 or title
48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the fees are paid.
20.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract entered into for the
construction of a mixed waste processing facility that is located on a
municipal solid waste landfill and that is constructed for the purpose of
recycling solid waste or producing renewable energy from landfill waste. For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Mixed waste processing facility"
means a solid waste facility that is owned, operated or used for the treatment,
processing or disposal of solid waste, recyclable solid waste, conditionally
exempt small quantity generator waste or household hazardous
waste.For the purposes of thissubdivision,
"conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste",
"household hazardous waste" and "solid waste facility" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 49701,except that solid
waste facility does include a site that stores, treats or processes paper,
glass, wood, cardboard, household textiles, scrap metal, plastic, vegetative
waste, aluminum, steel or other recyclable material.
(b)"Municipal solid waste landfill" has
the same meaning prescribed in section 49701.
(c)"Recycling" means collecting,
separating, cleansing, treating and reconstitutingrecyclable solid
wastethat would otherwise become solid waste, but does not include
incineration or other similar processes.
(d)"Renewable energy" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 411511.
C.Entitlement to the deduction pursuant to
subsection B, paragraph 7 of this section is subject to the following
provisions:
1.A prime contractor may establish entitlement to
the deduction by both:
(a)Marking the invoice for the transaction to
indicate that the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the
transaction was deducted from the base.
(b)Obtaining a certificate executed by the
purchaser indicating the name and address of the purchaser, the precise nature
of the business of the purchaser, the purpose for which the purchase was made,
the necessary facts to establish the deductibility of the property under
section 425061, subsection B, and a certification that the person
executing the certificate is authorized to do so on behalf of the purchaser.
The certificate may be disregarded if the prime contractor has reason to
believe that the information contained in the certificate is not accurate or
complete.
2.A person who does not comply with paragraph 1
of this subsection may establish entitlement to the deduction by presenting
facts necessary to support the entitlement, but the burden of proof is on that
person.
3.The department may prescribe a form for the
certificate described in paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this subsection. The
department may also adopt rules that describe the transactions with respect to
which a person is not entitled to rely solely on the information contained in
the certificate provided in paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this subsection but
must instead obtain such additional information as required in order to be
entitled to the deduction.
4.If a prime contractor is entitled to a
deduction by complying with paragraph 1 of this subsection, the department may
require the purchaser who caused the execution of the certificate to establish
the accuracy and completeness of the information required to be contained in
the certificate that would entitle the prime contractor to the
deduction.If the purchaser cannot establish the accuracy and
completeness of the information, the purchaser is liable in an amount equal to
any tax, penalty and interest that the prime contractor would have been
required to pay under article 1 of this chapter if the prime contractor had not
complied with paragraph 1 of this subsection. Payment of the amount under this
paragraph exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under
article 4 of this chapter.The amount shall be treated as a
transaction privilege tax to the purchaser and as tax revenues collected from
the prime contractor in order to designate the distribution base for purposes
of section 425029.
D.Subcontractors or others who perform
modification activities are not subject to tax if they can demonstrate that the
job was within the control of a prime contractor or contractors or a dealership
of manufactured buildings and that the prime contractor or dealership is liable
for the tax on the gross income, gross proceeds of sales or gross receipts
attributable to the job and from which the subcontractors or others were paid.
E.Amounts received by a contractor for a project
are excluded from the contractor's gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the business if the person who hired the contractor executes and
provides a certificate to the contractor stating that the person providing the
certificate is a prime contractor and is liable for the tax under article 1 of
this chapter. The department shall prescribe the form of the certificate. If
the contractor has reason to believe that the information contained on the
certificate is erroneous or incomplete, the department may disregard the
certificate.If the person who provides the certificate is not
liable for the tax as a prime contractor, that person is nevertheless deemed to
be the prime contractor in lieu of the contractor and is subject to the tax
under this section on the gross receipts or gross proceeds received by the
contractor.
F.Every person engaging or continuing in this
state in the business of prime contracting or dealership of manufactured
buildings shall present to the purchaser of such prime contracting or
manufactured building a written receipt of the gross income or gross proceeds
of sales from such activity and shall separately state the taxes to be paid
pursuant to this section.
G.For the purposes of section 425032.01,
the department shall separately account for revenues collected under the prime
contracting classification from any prime contractor engaged in the preparation
or construction of a multipurpose facility, and related infrastructure, that is
owned, operated or leased by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to title
5, chapter 8.
H.For the purposes of section 425032.02,
from and after September30, 2013, the department shall separately account
for revenues reported and collected under the prime contracting classification
from any prime contractor engaged in the construction of any buildings and
associated improvements that are for the benefit of a manufacturing facility.
For the purposes of this subsection, "associated improvements" and
"manufacturing facility" have the same meanings prescribed in section
425032.02.
I.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract for lawn maintenance services are not subject to tax
under this section if the contract does not include landscaping
activities.Lawn maintenance service is a service pursuant to
section 425061, subsection A, paragraph 1, and includes lawn mowing and
edging, weeding, repairing sprinkler heads or drip irrigation heads, seasonal
replacement of flowers, refreshing gravel, lawn dethatching, seeding
winter lawns, leaf and debris collection and removal, tree or shrub pruning or
clipping, garden and gravel raking and applying pesticides, as defined in
section 3361, and fertilizer materials, as defined in section 3262.
J.Except as provided in subsection O of this
section, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from landscaping activities
are subject to tax under this section. Landscaping includes installing lawns,
grading or leveling ground, installing gravel or boulders, planting trees and
other plants, felling trees, removing or mulching tree stumps, removing other
imbedded plants, building irrigation berms, installing railroad ties and
installing underground sprinkler or watering systems.
K.The portion of gross proceeds of sales or gross
income attributable to the actual direct costs of providing architectural or
engineering services that are incorporated in a contract is not subject to tax
under this section. For the purposes of this subsection, "direct
costs" means the portion of the actual costs that are directly expended in
providing architectural or engineering services.
L.Operating a landfill or a solid waste disposal
facility is not subject to taxation under this section, including filling,
compacting and creating vehicle access to and from cell sites within the
landfill. Constructing roads to a landfill or solid waste disposal facility and
constructing cells within a landfill or solid waste disposal facility may be
deemed prime contracting under this section.
M.C.The following apply in
determining the taxable situs of sales of manufactured buildings:
1.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site or to perform the setup in this state, the taxable situs is the
setup site.
2.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer does not contract to deliver the
building to a setup site or does not perform the setup, the taxable situs is
the location of the dealership where the building is delivered to the buyer.
3.For sales in this
state where the manufactured building dealer contracts to deliver the building
to a setup site that is outside this state, the situs is outside this state and
the transaction is excluded from tax.
N.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
attributable to a written contract for design phase services or professional
services, executed before modification begins and with terms, conditions and
pricing of all of these services separately stated in the contract from those
for construction phase services, is not subject to tax under this section,
regardless of whether the services are provided sequential to or concurrent
with prime contracting activities that are subject to tax under this
section.This subsection does not include the gross proceeds of
sales or gross income attributable to construction phase services.For
the purposes of this subsection:
1."Construction phase services" means
services for the execution and completion of any modification, including the
following:
(a)Administration or supervision of any
modification performed on the project, including team management and
coordination, scheduling, cost controls, submittal process management, field
management, safety program, close-out process and warranty period services.
(b)Administration or supervision of any
modification performed pursuant to a punch list. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "punch list" means minor items of modification work
performed after substantial completion and before final completion of the
project.
(c)Administration or supervision of any
modification performed pursuant to change orders.For the purposes
of this subdivision, "change order" means a written instrument issued
after execution of a contract for modification work, providing for all of the
following:
(i)The scope of a change in the modification
work, contract for modification work or other contract documents.
(ii)The amount of an adjustment, if any, to the
guaranteed maximum price as set in the contract for modification work. For the
purposes of this item, "guaranteed maximum price" means the amount
guaranteed to be the maximum amount due to a prime contractor for the
performance of all modification work for the project.
(iii)The extent of an adjustment, if any, to the
contract time of performance set forth in the contract.
(d)Administration or supervision of any
modification performed pursuant to change directives. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "change directive" means a written order directing a
change in modification work before agreement on an adjustment of the guaranteed
maximum price or contract time.
(e)Inspection to determine the dates of
substantial completion or final completion.
(f)Preparation of any manuals, warranties,
as-built drawings, spares or other items the prime contractor must furnish
pursuant to the contract for modification work. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "as-built drawing" means a drawing that indicates field
changes made to adapt to field conditions, field changes resulting from change
orders or buried and concealed installation of piping, conduit and utility
services.
(g)Preparation of status reports after
modification work has begun detailing the progress of work performed, including
preparation of any of the following:
(i)Master schedule updates.
(ii)Modification work cash flow projection updates.
(iii)Site reports made on a periodic basis.
(iv)Identification of discrepancies, conflicts or
ambiguities in modification work documents that require resolution.
(v)Identification of any health and safety issues
that have arisen in connection with the modification work.
(h)Preparation of daily logs of modification
work, including documentation of personnel, weather conditions and on-site
occurrences.
(i)Preparation of any submittals or shop drawings
used by the prime contractor to illustrate details of the modification work
performed.
(j)Administration or supervision of any other
activities for which a prime contractor receives a certificate for payment or
certificate for final payment based on the progress of modification work
performed on the project.
2."Design phase services" means
services for developing and completing a design for a project that are not
construction phase services, including the following:
(a)Evaluating surveys, reports, test results or
any other information on-site conditions for the project, including physical
characteristics, legal limitations and utility locations for the site.
(b)Evaluating any criteria or programming
objectives for the project to ascertain requirements for the project, such as
physical requirements affecting cost or projected utilization of the project.
(c)Preparing drawings and specifications for
architectural program documents, schematic design documents, design development
documents, modification work documents or documents that identify the scope of
or materials for the project.
(d)Preparing an initial schedule for the project,
excluding the preparation of updates to the master schedule after modification
work has begun.
(e)Preparing preliminary estimates of costs of
modification work before completion of the final design of the project,
including an estimate or schedule of values for any of the following:
(i)Labor, materials, machinery and equipment,
tools, water, heat, utilities, transportation and other facilities and services
used in the execution and completion of modification work, regardless of
whether they are temporary or permanent or whether they are incorporated in the
modifications.
(ii)The cost of labor and materials to be
furnished by the owner of the real property.
(iii)The cost of any equipment of the owner of
the real property to be assigned by the owner to the prime contractor.
(iv)The cost of any labor for installation of
equipment separately provided by the owner of the real property that has been
designed, specified, selected or specifically provided for in any design
document for the project.
(v)Any fee paid by the owner of the real property
to the prime contractor pursuant to the contract for modification work.
(vi)Any bond and insurance premiums.
(vii)Any applicable taxes.
(viii)Any contingency fees for the prime
contractor that may be used before final completion of the project.
(f)Reviewing and evaluating cost estimates and
project documents to prepare recommendations on site use, site improvements,
selection of materials, building systems and equipment, modification
feasibility, availability of materials and labor, local modification activity
as related to schedules and time requirements for modification work.
(g)Preparing the plan and procedures for
selection of subcontractors, including any prequalification of subcontractor
candidates.
3."Professional services" means
architect services, assayer services, engineer services, geologist services,
land surveying services or landscape architect services that are within the
scope of those services as provided in title 32, chapter 1 and for which gross
proceeds of sales or gross income has not otherwise been deducted under
subsection K of this section.
O.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from a contract with the owner of real property or improvements to real
property for the maintenance, repair, replacement or alteration of existing
property is not subject to tax under this section if the contract does not
include modification activities, except as specified in this
subsection.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from
a de minimis amount of modification activity does not subject the contract or
any part of the contract to tax under this section. For the purposes of this
subsection:
1.Tangible personal property that is incorporated
or fabricated into a project described in this subsection may be subject to the
amount prescribed in section 425008.01.
2.Each contract is independent of any other
contract, except that any change order that directly relates to the scope of
work of the original contract shall be treated the same as the original
contract under this chapter, regardless of the amount of modification
activities included in the change order. If a change order does not directly
relate to the scope of work of the original contract, the change order shall be
treated as a new contract, with the tax treatment of any subsequent change
order to follow the tax treatment of the contract to which the scope of work of
the subsequent change order directly relates.
P.Notwithstanding subsection O of this section, a
contract that primarily involves surface or subsurface improvements to land and
that is subject to title 28, chapter 19, 20 or 22 or title 34, chapter 2 or 6
is taxable under this section, even if the contract also includes vertical
improvements.Agencies that are subject to procurement processes
under those provisions shall include in the request for proposals a notice to
bidders when those projects are subject to this section. This subsection does
not apply to contracts with:
1.Community facilities districts, fire districts,
county television improvement districts, community park maintenance districts,
cotton pest control districts, hospital districts, pest abatement districts,
health service districts, agricultural improvement districts, county free
library districts, county jail districts, county stadium districts, special
health care districts, public health services districts, theme park districts,
regional attraction districts or revitalization districts.
2.Any special taxing district not specified in
paragraph 1 of this subsection if the district does not substantially engage in
the modification, maintenance, repair, replacement or alteration of surface or
subsurface improvements to land.
Q.Notwithstanding subsection R, paragraph 10 of
this section, a person owning real property who enters into a contract for sale
of the real property, who is responsible to the new owner of the property for modifications
made to the property in the period subsequent to the transfer of title and who
receives a consideration for the modifications is considered a prime contractor
solely for purposes of taxing the gross proceeds of sale or gross income
received for the modifications made subsequent to the transfer of title. The
original owner's gross proceeds of sale or gross income received for the
modifications shall be determined according to the following methodology:
1.If any part of the contract for sale of the
property specifies amounts to be paid to the original owner for the
modifications to be made in the period subsequent to the transfer of title, the
amounts are included in the original owner's gross proceeds of sale or gross
income under this section.Proceeds from the sale of the property
that are received after transfer of title and that are unrelated to the
modifications made subsequent to the transfer of title are not considered gross
proceeds of sale or gross income from the modifications.
2.If the original owner enters into an agreement
separate from the contract for sale of the real property providing for amounts
to be paid to the original owner for the modifications to be made in the period
subsequent to the transfer of title to the property, the amounts are included
in the original owner's gross proceeds of sale or gross income received for the
modifications made subsequent to the transfer of title.
3.If the original owner is responsible to the new
owner for modifications made to the property in the period subsequent to the
transfer of title and derives any gross proceeds of sale or gross income from
the project subsequent to the transfer of title other than a delayed
disbursement from escrow unrelated to the modifications, it is presumed that
the amounts are received for the modifications made subsequent to the transfer
of title unless the contrary is established by the owner through its books,
records and papers kept in the regular course of business.
4.The tax base of the original owner is computed
in the same manner as a prime contractor under this section.
R.D.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Alteration"
means an activity or action that causes a direct physical change to existing
property. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)For
existing property that is properly classified as class two property under
section 4212002, paragraph 1, subdivision (c) or paragraph 2,
subdivision (c) and that is used for residential purposes, class three property
under section 4212003 or class four property under 4212004, this
paragraph does not apply if the contract amount is more than twenty-five
percent of the most recent full cash value established under chapter 13,
article 2 of this title as of the date of any bid for the work or the date of
the contract, whichever value is higher.
(b)For all
existing property other than existing property described in subdivision (a) of
this paragraph, this paragraph does not apply if any of the following is true:
(i)The
contract amount is more than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars.
(ii)The scope
of work directly relates to more than forty percent of the existing square
footage of the existing property.
(iii)The
scope of work involves expanding the square footage of more than ten percent of
the existing property.
(c)Project
elements may not be artificially separated from a contract to cause a project
to qualify as an alteration. The department has the burden of proof that
project elements have been artificially separated from a contract.
(d)If a
project for which the owner and the person performing the work reasonably
believed, at the inception of the contract, would be treated as an alteration
under this paragraph and, on completion of the project, the project exceeded
the applicable threshold described in either subdivision (a) or (b) of this
paragraph by no more than twenty-five percent of the applicable threshold for
any reason, the work performed under the contract qualifies as an alteration.
(e)A change
order that directly relates to the scope of work of the original contract shall
be treated as part of the original contract, and the contract amount shall
include any amount attributable to a change order that directly relates to the
scope of work of the original contract.
(f)Alteration
does not include maintenance, repair or replacement.
2."Contracting"
means engaging in business as a contractor.
3."Contractor"
is synonymous with the term "builder" and means any person or
organization that undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or purports to have
the capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid to, or does personally or by or
through others, modify any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation,
manufactured building or other structure, project, development or improvement,
or to do any part of such a project, including the erection of scaffolding or
other structure or works in connection with such a project, and includes
subcontractors and specialty contractors. For all purposes of taxation or
deduction, this definition shall govern without regard to whether or not such
contractor is acting in fulfillment of a contract.
4.1."Manufactured
building" means a manufactured home, mobile home or factorybuilt
building, as defined in section 412142.
5.2."Manufactured
building dealer" means a dealer who either:
(a)Is licensed pursuant to title 41, chapter 16 and
who sells manufactured buildings to the final consumer.
(b)Supervises, performs or coordinates the
excavation and completion of site improvements or the setup or moving of a
manufactured building including the contracting, if any, with any subcontractor
or specialty contractor for the completion of the contract.
6."Modification" means construction,
grading and leveling ground, wreckage or demolition. Modification does not
include:
(a)Any project described in subsection O of this
section.
(b)Any wreckage or demolition of existing
property, or any other activity that is a necessary component of a project
described in subsection O of this section.
(c)Any mobilization or demobilization related to
a project described in subsection O of this section, such as the erection or
removal of temporary facilities to be used by those persons working on the
project.
7."Modify" means to make a modification
or cause a modification to be made.
8."Owner" means the person that holds
title to the real property or improvements to real property that is the subject
of the work, as well as an agent of the title holder and any person with the
authority to perform or authorize work on the real property or improvements,
including a tenant and a property manager. For the purposes of subsection O of
this section, a person who is hired by a general contractor that is hired by an
owner, or a subcontractor of a general contractor that is hired by an owner, is
considered to be hired by the owner.
9."Prime contracting" means engaging in
business as a prime contractor.
10."Prime contractor" means a
contractor who supervises, performs or coordinates the modification of any
building, highway, road, railroad, excavation, manufactured building or other
structure, project, development or improvement including the contracting, if
any, with any subcontractors or specialty contractors and who is responsible
for the completion of the contract.Except as provided in
subsections E and Q of this section, a person who owns real property, who
engages one or more contractors to modify that real property and who does not
itself modify that real property is not a prime contractor within the meaning
of this paragraph regardless of the existence of a contract for sale or the
subsequent sale of that real property.
11."Replacement" means the removal from
service of one component or system of existing property or tangible personal
property installed in existing property, including machinery or equipment, and
the installation of a new component or system or new tangible personal
property, including machinery or equipment, that provides the same similar or
upgraded design or functionality, regardless of the contract amount and
regardless of whether the existing component or system or existing tangible
personal property is physically removed from the existing property.
12.3."Sale of a used
manufactured building" does not include a lease of a used manufactured building.
END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 42-5155, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5155.Levy of tax; tax rate; purchaser's liability
A.There is levied and imposed an excise tax on the
storage, use or consumption in this state of tangible personal property
purchased from a retailer or utility business, as a percentage of the sales
price.A manufactured building purchased outside this state and set
up in this state is subject to tax under this section and in this case the rate is a percentage is of sixtyfive per cent percent of the sales price.
B.The tax imposed by this section applies to any
purchaser which that purchased tangible personal
property for resale but subsequently uses or consumes the property.
C.The tax rate shall equal the rate of tax
prescribed by section 425010, subsection A as applied to retailers and
utility businesses according to the respective classification under articles 1
and 2 of this chapter for the same type of transaction or business activity.
D.In addition to the rate prescribed by subsection
C of this section, if approved by the qualified electors voting at a statewide
general election, an additional rate increment of six-tenths of one per cent percent is imposed and shall be collected
through June 30, 2021. The taxpayer shall pay taxes pursuant to this
subsection at the same time and in the same manner as under subsection C of
this section. The department shall separately account for the revenues
collected with respect to the rate imposed pursuant to this subsection, and the
state treasurer shall pay all of those revenues in the manner prescribed by
section 425029, subsectionE.
E.Every person storing, using or consuming in this
state tangible personal property purchased from a retailer or utility business
is liable for the tax.The person's liability is not extinguished
until the tax has been paid to this state.
F.A receipt from a retailer or utility business
that maintains a place of business in this state or from a retailer or utility
business that is authorized by the department to collect the tax, under such
rules as it may prescribe, and that is for the purposes of this article
regarded as a retailer or utility business maintaining a place of business in
this state, given to the purchaser as provided in section 425161 is
sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability for the tax to which
the receipt refers.
G.The
purchase of tangible personal property by a contractor, regardless of whether
it will be incorporated into a building or structure, is considered to be a
purchase at retail and is subject to taxation under this section unless the
contractor provides to the retailer a certificate that is signed by the owner
of the property to be improved and that states that the personal property
purchased by the contractor will be used for a purpose identified in section 425159,
subsection A or B. If a person who is in the business of selling tangible
personal property at retail also engages in business as a contractor and
removes tangible personal property from retail stock for use in contracting
activities, the purchase price of that personal property is subject to tax
under subsection B of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 42-5159, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5159.Exemptions
A.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the storage, use or consumption in this state of
the following described tangible personal property:
1.Tangible personal
property sold in this state, the gross receipts from the sale of which are
included in the measure of the tax imposed by articles 1 and 2 of this chapter.
2.Tangible personal
property, the sale or use
of which has already been subjected to an excise tax at a rate equal to or
exceeding the tax imposed by this article under the laws of another state of
the United States. If the excise tax imposed by the other state is at a rate
less than the tax imposed by this article, the tax imposed by this article is
reduced by the amount of the tax already imposed by the other state.
3.Tangible personal
property, the storage, use or consumption of which the constitution or laws of
the United States prohibit this state from taxing or to the extent that the
rate or imposition of tax is unconstitutional under the laws of the United
States.
4.Tangible personal
property that directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component part
of any manufactured, fabricated or processed article, substance or commodity
for sale in the regular course of business.
5.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, use fuel that is sold
to or used by a person holding a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued
under section 285739, aviation fuel, the sales, distribution or use of
which in this state is subject to the tax imposed under section 288344,
and jet fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under article 8 of this chapter.
6.Tangible personal
property brought into this state by an individual who was a nonresident at the
time the property was purchased for storage, use or consumption by the
individual if the first actual use or consumption of the property was outside
this state, unless the property is used in conducting a business in this state.
7.Purchases of implants
used as growth promotants and injectable medicines, not already exempt under
paragraph 16 of this subsection, for livestock and poultry owned by, or in
possession of, persons who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or
livestock or poultry products, or who are engaged in feeding livestock or
poultry commercially. For the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry"
includes ratites.
8.Livestock, poultry,
supplies, feed, salts, vitamins and other additives for use or consumption in
the businesses of farming, ranching and feeding livestock or poultry, not
including fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides.For the purposes
of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
9.Seeds, seedlings,
roots, bulbs, cuttings and other propagative material for use in commercially
producing agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops in
this state.
10.Tangible personal
property not exceeding two hundred dollars in any one month purchased by an individual
at retail outside the continental limits of the United States for the
individual's own personal use and enjoyment.
11.Advertising
supplements that are intended for sale with newspapers published in this state
and that have already been subjected to an excise tax under the laws of another
state in the United States that equals or exceeds the tax imposed by this
article.
12.Materials that are
purchased by or for publicly funded libraries including school district
libraries, charter school libraries, community college libraries, state
university libraries or federal, state, county or municipal libraries for use
by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or
photographic materials, beginning August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or
digital media materials, beginning July 17, 1994.
13.Tangible personal
property purchased by:
(a)A hospital organized
and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(b)A hospital operated
by this state or a political subdivision of this state.
(c)A licensed nursing
care institution or a licensed residential care institution or a residential
care facility operated in conjunction with a licensed nursing care institution
or a licensed kidney dialysis center, which provides medical services, nursing
services or health related services and is not used or held for profit.
(d)A qualifying health
care organization, as defined in section 425001, if the tangible
personal property is used by the organization solely to provide health and
medical related educational and charitable services.
(e)A qualifying health
care organization as defined in section 425001 if the organization is
dedicated to providing educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family
medical education training for blind and visually impaired children and
children with multiple disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(f)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
United States internal revenue code and that engages in and uses such property
exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical disabilities if the
programs are exclusively for training, job placement, rehabilitation or
testing.
(g)A person that is
subject to tax under this chapter by reason of being engaged in business
classified under section 425075, or
a subcontractor working under the control of a person that is engaged in
business classified under section 425075, if the tangible
personal property is any of the
following:
(i)to be incorporated or fabricated by the person into a manufactured building. structure, project, development or improvement
in fulfillment of a contract.
(ii)Incorporated or fabricated by the person into
any project described in section 425075, subsection O.
(iii)Used in environmental response or
remediation activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
(h)A person that is not subject to tax under
section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of a certificate
described in section 425009, subsection L, if the property purchased is
incorporated or fabricated by the person into the real property, structure,
project, development or improvement described in the certificate.
(i)(h)A
nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code if the property is purchased from the parent or an
affiliate organization that is located outside this state.
(j)(i)A
qualifying community health center as defined in section 425001.
(k)(j)A
nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals to the needy and
indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
(l)(k)A
person engaged in business under the transient lodging classification if the
property is a personal hygiene item or articles used by human beings for food,
drink or condiment, except alcoholic beverages, which are furnished without
additional charge to and intended to be consumed by the transient during the
transient's occupancy.
(m)(l)For
taxable periods beginning from and after June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable
organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code and that provides residential apartment housing for low income persons
over sixtytwo years of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal
housing subsidy, if the tangible personal property is used by the organization
solely to provide residential apartment housing for low income persons over
sixtytwo years of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing
subsidy.
(n)(m)A
qualifying health sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
(o)A person representing or working on behalf of
any person described in subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (j),
(k), (m) or (n) of this paragraph, if the tangible personal property is
incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075,
subsection O.
14.Commodities, as
defined by title 7 United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale
in a warehouse in this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a
contract for future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market
regulated by the United States commodity futures trading commission.
15.Tangible personal
property sold by:
(a)Any nonprofit
organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes and
recognized by the United States internal revenue service under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
(b)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or
501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is associated with a
major league baseball team or a national touring professional golfing
association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(c)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4),
501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if the
organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and ranch
animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of
any private shareholder or individual.
16.Drugs and medical
oxygen, including delivery hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the
prescription of a member of the medical, dental or veterinarian profession who
is licensed by law to administer such substances.
17.Prosthetic appliances,
as defined in section 23501, prescribed or recommended by a person who
is licensed, registered or otherwise professionally credentialed as a
physician, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath, homeopath, nurse or
optometrist.
18.Prescription
eyeglasses and contact lenses.
19.Insulin, insulin
syringes and glucose test strips.
20.Hearing aids as
defined in section 361901.
21.Durable medical
equipment that has a centers for medicare and medicaid services common
procedure code, is designated reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a
person who is licensed under title 32, chapter 7, 13, 17 or 29, can withstand
repeated use, is primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is
generally not useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is
appropriate for use in the home.
22.Food, as provided in
and subject to the conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
23.Items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
24.Food and drink
provided without monetary charge by a taxpayer that is subject to section 425074
to its employees for their own consumption on the premises during the
employees' hours of employment.
25.Tangible personal
property that is used or consumed in a business subject to section 425074
for human food, drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
26.Food, drink or
condiment and accessory tangible personal property that are acquired for use by
or provided to a school district or charter school if they are to be either
served or prepared and served to persons for consumption on the premises of a
public school in the school district or on the premises of the charter school
during school hours.
27.Lottery tickets or
shares purchased pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
28.Textbooks, sold by a
bookstore, that are required by any state university or community college.
29.Magazines, other
periodicals or other publications produced by this state to encourage tourist
travel.
30.Paper machine
clothing, such as forming fabrics and dryer felts, purchased by a paper
manufacturer and directly used or consumed in paper manufacturing.
31.Coal, petroleum,
coke, natural gas, virgin fuel oil and electricity purchased by a qualified
environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in
section 411514.02 and directly used or consumed in the generation or
provision of onsite power or energy solely for environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing or environmental protection.This
paragraph shall apply for twenty full consecutive calendar or fiscal years from
the date the first paper manufacturing machine is placed in service. In the
case of an environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does
not manufacture paper, the time period shall begin with the date the first
manufacturing, processing or production equipment is placed in service.
32.Motor vehicles that
are removed from inventory by a motor vehicle dealer as defined in section 284301
and that are provided to:
(a)Charitable or
educational institutions that are exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code.
(b)Public educational
institutions.
(c)State universities
or affiliated organizations of a state university if no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
33.Natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
34.Machinery,
equipment, technology or related supplies that are only useful to assist a
person with a physical disability as defined in section 46191 or a
person who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 or
has a head injury as defined in section 413201 to be more independent
and functional.
35.Liquid, solid or
gaseous chemicals used in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining,
refining, metallurgical operations, research and development and, beginning on
January 1, 1999, printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as
part of an integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the
materials from which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or
permitting a chemical or physical change to occur in the materials as part of
the production process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are
used or consumed in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but
does not affect any exemption for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a
commercial printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing,
copying and bookbinding.
36.Food, drink and
condiment purchased for consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or
other institution under the jurisdiction of the state department of
corrections, the department of public safety, the department of juvenile
corrections or a county sheriff.
37.A motor vehicle and
any repair and replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part
of such motor vehicle sold to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee
prescribed in title 28, chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the
business of leasing or renting such property.
38.Tangible personal
property that is or directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component
part of cards used as prescription plan identification cards.
39.Overhead materials
or other tangible personal property that is used in performing a contract
between the United States government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or
repairer, including property used in performing a subcontract with a government
contractor who is a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which
title passes to the government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Overhead
materials" means tangible personal property, the gross proceeds of sales
or gross income derived from which would otherwise be included in the retail
classification, that is used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the
cost of which is charged to an overhead expense account and allocated to
various contracts based on generally accepted accounting principles and
consistent with government contract accounting standards.
(b)"Subcontract"
means an agreement between a contractor and any person who is not an employee
of the contractor for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in
part, are necessary to the performance of one or more government contracts, or
under which any portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more
government contracts is performed, undertaken or assumed, and that includes
provisions causing title to overhead materials or other tangible personal
property used in the performance of the subcontract to pass to the government
or that includes provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a
government contract into the subcontract.
40.Through December 31,
1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a personal property
liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061.From
and after December 31, 1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a
personal property liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061,
if the gross proceeds of the sales were included in the measure of the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter or if the personal property liquidation
was a casual activity or transaction.
41.Wireless
telecommunications equipment that is held for sale or transfer to a customer as
an inducement to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications
services that are taxable under section 425064.
42.Alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215, purchased by a used oil fuel burner who has
received a permit to burn used oil or used oil fuel under section 49426
or 49480.
43.Tangible personal
property purchased by a commercial airline and consisting of food, beverages
and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and beverages, if
those items are to be provided without additional charge to passengers for
consumption in flight.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
44.Alternative fuel
vehicles if the vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted
to operate on alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a
conventional diesel fuel motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an
alternative fuel, as defined in section 1215.
45.Gas diverted from a
pipeline, by a person engaged in the business of:
(a)Operating a natural
or artificial gas pipeline, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment that pressurizes the pipeline.
(b)Converting natural
gas into liquefied natural gas, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment used in the conversion process.
46.Tangible personal
property that is excluded, exempt or deductible from transaction privilege tax
pursuant to section 425063.
47.Tangible personal property purchased to be
incorporated or installed as part of environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
48.47.Tangible personal property sold
by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section
501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization produces, organizes
or promotes cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
49.48.Prepared food, drink or
condiment donated by a restaurant as classified in section 425074,
subsection A to a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals
to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
50.49.Application services that are
designed to assess or test student learning or to promote curriculum design or
enhancement purchased by or for any school district, charter school, community
college or state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application
services" means software applications provided remotely using hypertext
transfer protocol or another network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum
design or enhancement" means planning, implementing or reporting on
courses of study, lessons, assignments or other learning activities.
51.50.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel
to a qualified business under section 411516 for off-road use in
harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from
qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
52.51.Repair parts installed in
equipment used directly by a qualified business under section 411516 in
harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from
qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
53.52.Renewable energy credits or any
other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy resources.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy credit" means a
unit created administratively by the corporation commission or governing body
of a public power entity to track kilowatt hours of electricity derived from a
renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour equivalent of conventional
energy resources displaced by distributed renewable energy resources.
54.53.Computer data center equipment
purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of the computer
data center or an authorized agent of the owner, operator or qualified
colocation tenant during the qualification period for use in a computer data
center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority under section 411519.
To qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase, the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer its certificate that
is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that establishes its
qualification for the deduction.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"computer data center", "computer data center equipment",
"qualification period" and "qualified colocation tenant"
have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
55.54.Coal acquired from an owner or
operator of a power plant by a person who is responsible for refining coal if
both of the following apply:
(a)The transfer of
title or possession of the coal is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or
possession of the coal is transferred back to the owner or operator of the
power plant after completion of the coal refining process. For the purposes of
this subdivision, "coal refining process" means the application of a
coal additive system that aids the reduction of power plant emissions during
the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue gas.
56.55.Tangible personal property that is incorporated or
fabricated into a project described in
section 425075, subsection O, undertaken by a contractor pursuant to a contract with the
owner of real property or improvements to real property and that
is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for which
the owner, as defined in section 425075,
of the project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of
this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated
Indian" means an individual native American Indian who is duly registered
on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian
reservation was established.
(b)"Indian
reservation" means all lands that are within the limits of areas set aside
by the United States for the exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by
treaty, law or executive order and that are recognized as Indian reservations
by the United States department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe"
means any organized nation, tribe, band or community that is recognized as an
Indian tribe by the United States department of the interior and includes any
entity formed under the laws of the Indian tribe.
(d)"Owner" means the
person that holds title to the real property or improvements to real property
that is the subject of the work, as well as an agent of the title holder and
any person with the authority to perform or authorize work on the real property
or improvements, including a tenant and a property manager.
B.In addition to the
exemptions allowed by subsection A of this section, the following categories of
tangible personal property are also exempt:
1.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing,
refining or metallurgical operations. The terms "manufacturing",
"processing", "fabricating", "job printing",
"refining" and "metallurgical" as used in this paragraph
refer to and include those operations commonly understood within their ordinary
meaning. "Metallurgical operations" includes leaching, milling,
precipitating, smelting and refining.
2.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in the process of extracting ores or minerals from the
earth for commercial purposes, including equipment required to prepare the
materials for extraction and handling, loading or transporting such extracted
material to the surface."Mining" includes underground,
surface and open pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal
property sold to persons engaged in business classified under the
telecommunications classification under section 425064,including a person representing or working on behalf
of such a person in a manner described in section 425075, subsection O,
and consisting of central office switching equipment, switchboards, private
branch exchange equipment, microwave radio equipment and carrier equipment
including optical fiber, coaxial cable and other transmission media that are
components of carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment
or transmission lines used directly in producing or transmitting electrical
power, but not including distribution. Transformers and control equipment used
at transmission substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or
transmitting electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses,
asses, sheep, ratites, swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or
production stock, including sales of breedings or ownership shares in such
animals used for breeding or production.
6.Pipes or valves four
inches in diameter or larger used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial
gas, water or coal slurry, including compressor units, regulators, machinery
and equipment, fittings, seals and any other part that is used in operating the
pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft,
navigational and communication instruments and other accessories and related
equipment sold to:
(a)A person holding a
federal certificate of public convenience and necessity, a supplemental air
carrier certificate under federal aviation regulations (14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121) or a foreign air carrier permit for air transportation
for use as or in conjunction with or becoming a part of aircraft to be used to
transport persons, property or United States mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign
commerce.
(b)Any foreign
government, or sold to persons who are not residents of this state and who will
not use such property in this state other than in removing such property from
this state.
8.Machinery, tools,
equipment and related supplies used or consumed directly in repairing,
remodeling or maintaining aircraft, aircraft engines or aircraft component
parts by or on behalf of a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or
property.
9.Rolling stock, rails,
ties and signal control equipment used directly to transport persons or
property.
10.Machinery or
equipment used directly to drill for oil or gas or used directly in the process
of extracting oil or gas from the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban
mass transit vehicles that are used directly to transport persons or property
for hire or pursuant to a governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass
transportation program and that are sold to bus companies holding a federal
certificate of convenience and necessity or operated by any city, town or other
governmental entity or by any person contracting with such governmental entity
as part of a governmentally adopted and controlled program to provide urban
mass transportation.
12.Groundwater
measuring devices required under section 45604.
13.New machinery and
equipment consisting of tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered
implements, machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and
machinery and equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip
irrigation lines not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and
that are used for commercial production of agricultural, horticultural,
viticultural and floricultural crops and products in this state.For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"New machinery
and equipment" means machinery or equipment that has never been sold at
retail except pursuant to leases or rentals that do not total two years or
more.
(b)"Selfpowered
implements" includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or
equipment used in research and development. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "research and development" means basic and applied
research in the sciences and engineering, and designing, developing or testing
prototypes, processes or new products, including research and development of
computer software that is embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or
new product or that is required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt
under this section to function effectively. Research and development do not
include manufacturing quality control, routine consumer product testing, market
research, sales promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or
psychology, computer software research that is not included in the definition
of research and development, or other nontechnological activities or technical
services.
15.Tangible personal
property that is used by either of the following to receive, store, convert,
produce, generate, decode, encode, control or transmit telecommunications
information:
(a)Any direct broadcast
satellite television or data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47
Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite
television or data transmission facility, if both of the following conditions
are met:
(i)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during
the test period were transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct
broadcast satellite television or data transmission services that operate
pursuant to 47 Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of
those direct broadcast television or data transmission services during the test
period were transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of this paragraph,
"test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive day period
beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal property is purchased
or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite television or data
transmission service first transmits information to its customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real
property.Clean room:
(a)Includes the
integrated systems, fixtures, piping, movable partitions, lighting and all
property that is necessary or adapted to reduce contamination or to control
airflow, temperature, humidity, chemical purity or other environmental
conditions or manufacturing tolerances, as well as the production machinery and
equipment operating in conjunction with the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the
building or other permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses
the clean room environment.
17.Machinery and equipment
that are used directly in the feeding of poultry, the environmental control of
housing for poultry, the movement of eggs within a production and packaging
facility or the sorting or cooling of eggs.This exemption does not
apply to vehicles used for transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or
equipment, including related structural components, that is employed in
connection with manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining,
mining, natural gas pipelines, metallurgical operations, telecommunications,
producing or transmitting electricity or research and development and that is
used directly to meet or exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal
energy regulatory commission, the United States environmental protection
agency, the United States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department
of environmental quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and
equipment that are used in the commercial production of livestock, livestock
products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or
products in this state and that are used directly and primarily to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or
equipment that enables a television station to originate and broadcast or to
receive and broadcast digital television signals and that was purchased to
facilitate compliance with the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104;
110 Stat. 56; 47 United States Code section 336) and the federal communications
commission order issued April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part
73). This paragraph does not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or
replacement parts purchased for the machinery or equipment described in this
paragraph.
(b)Machinery or
equipment purchased to replace machinery or equipment for which an exemption
was previously claimed and taken under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or
equipment purchased after the television station has ceased analog
broadcasting, or purchased after November 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment
that is purchased from and after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a
qualified business under section 411516 for harvesting or processing
qualifying forest products removed from qualifying projects as defined in
section 411516. To qualify for this exemption, the qualified business
must obtain and present its certification from the Arizona commerce authority
at the time of purchase.
C.The exemptions
provided by subsection B of this section do not include:
1.Expendable
materials.For the purposes of this paragraph, expendable materials
do not include any of the categories of tangible personal property specified in
subsection B of this section regardless of the cost or useful life of that
property.
2.Janitorial equipment
and hand tools.
3.Office equipment,
furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal
property used in selling or distributing activities, other than the
telecommunications transmissions described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of
this section.
5.Motor vehicles
required to be licensed by this state, except buses or other urban mass transit
vehicles specifically exempted pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this
section, without regard to the use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings,
docks, depots and all other materials of whatever kind or character not
specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used
in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and
equipment or tangible personal property used by a contractor in the performance
of a contract.
D.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Revenues received
from sales of ancillary services, electric distribution services, electric
generation services, electric transmission services and other services related
to providing electricity to a retail electric customer who is located outside
this state for use outside this state if the electricity is delivered to a
point of sale outside this state.
2.Revenues received
from providing electricity, including ancillary services, electric distribution
services, electric generation services, electric transmission services and
other services related to providing electricity with respect to which the
transaction privilege tax imposed under section 425063 has been paid.
E.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the purchase of solar energy devices from a
retailer that is registered with the department as a solar energy retailer or a
solar energy contractor.
F.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Fees charged by a
municipally owned utility to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Reimbursement
or contribution compensation to any person or persons owning a utility system
for property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across
the land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
G.The
tax levied by this article does not apply to the purchase price of electricity
or natural gas by:
1.A
business that is principally engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations
and that uses at least fiftyone percent of the electricity or natural
gas in the manufacturing or smelting operations.This paragraph does
not apply to gas transportation services.For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Gas
transportation services" means the services of transporting natural gas to
a natural gas customer or to a natural gas distribution facility if the natural
gas was purchased from a supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing"
means the performance as a business of an integrated series of operations that
places tangible personal property in a form, composition or character different
from that in which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product
with a distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not
include processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity
or operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally engaged"
means at least fifty-one percent of the business is a manufacturing or smelting
operation.
(d)"Smelting"
means to melt or fuse a metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying
chemical change, usually to separate the metal.
2.A business that operates
an international operations center in this state and that is certified by the
Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
H.For
the purposes of subsection B of this section:
1."Aircraft"
includes:
(a)An
airplane flight simulator that is approved by the federal aviation
administration for use as a phase II or higher flight simulator under appendix
H, 14 Code of Federal Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal
property that is permanently affixed or attached as a component part of an
aircraft that is owned or operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of
persons or property.
2."Other
accessories and related equipment" includes aircraft accessories and
equipment such as ground service equipment that physically contact aircraft at
some point during the overall carrier operation.
I.For the purposes of
subsection D of this section, "ancillary services", "electric
distribution service", "electric generation service",
"electric transmission service" and "other services" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 425063. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 42-5160, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5160.Liability for tax
Any person who uses, stores or consumes any tangible personal
property upon on which a tax is imposed by
this article and upon on which the tax has not been
collected by a registered retailer or utility business shall pay the tax as
provided by this article, but every retailer and utility business maintaining a
place of business in this state and making sales of tangible personal property
for storage, use or other consumption in this state shall collect the tax from
the purchaser or user unless the property is exempt under this article or the
purchaser or user pays the tax directly to the department as provided by
section 425167. In the case of a manufactured building that is
purchased from a dealer outside this state and brought into this state, any
person who is hired to set up the manufactured building and who is licensed
pursuant to title 41, chapter 16, article 4 shall collect the tax from the
owner and remit the tax with any tax that is due under the prime contracting manufactured building dealer classification pursuant to section 425075.
END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 42-6004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6004.Exemption from municipal tax; definitions
A.A city, town or special taxing district shall not
levy a transaction privilege, sales, use or other similar tax on:
1.Exhibition events in this state sponsored,
conducted or operated by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation
under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if
the organization is associated with a major league baseball team or a national
touring professional golfing association and no part of the organization's net
earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
2.Interstate telecommunications services, which
include that portion of telecommunications services, such as subscriber line
service, allocable by federal law to interstate telecommunications service.
3.Sales of warranty or service contracts.
4.Sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this
state for use outside this state if the motor vehicle dealer ships or delivers
the motor vehicle to a destination outside this state.
5.Interest on finance contracts.
6.Dealer documentation fees on the sales of motor
vehicles.
7.Sales of food or other items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786) but
may impose such a tax on other sales of food. If a city, town or special taxing
district exempts sales of food from its tax or imposes a different transaction
privilege rate on the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from sales of
food and nonfood items, it shall use the definition of food prescribed by rule
adopted by the department pursuant to section 425106.
8.Orthodontic devices dispensed by a dental
professional who is licensed under title 32, chapter 11 to a patient as part of
the practice of dentistry.
9.Sales of internet access services to the person's
subscribers and customers. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Internet" means the computer and
telecommunications facilities that comprise the interconnected worldwide
network of networks that employ the transmission control protocol or internet
protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocol, to communicate information
of all kinds by wire or radio.
(b)"Internet access" means a service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services
over the internet. Internet access does not include telecommunication services
provided by a common carrier.
10.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
retained by the Arizona exposition and state fair board from ride ticket sales
at the annual Arizona state fair.
11.Through
August 31, 2014, sales of Arizona centennial medallions by the historical
advisory commission.
12.11.Leasing real
property between affiliated companies, businesses, persons or reciprocal
insurers. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated companies, businesses, persons
or reciprocal insurers" means the lessor holds a controlling interest in
the lessee, the lessee holds a controlling interest in the lessor, affiliated
persons hold a controlling interest in both the lessor and the lessee, or an
unrelated person holds a controlling interest in both the lessor and lessee.
(b)"Affiliated persons" means members of
the individual's family or persons who have ownership or control of a business
entity.
(c)"Controlling interest" means direct or
indirect ownership of at least eighty percent of the voting shares of a
corporation or of the interests in a company, business or person other than a
corporation.
(d)"Members of the individual's family"
means the individual's spouse and brothers and sisters, whether by whole or
half blood, including adopted persons, ancestors and lineal descendants.
(e)"Reciprocal insurer" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 20762.
13.12.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract for the installation,
assembly, repair or maintenance of machinery, equipment or other tangible
personal property that is described in section 425061, subsection B and
that has independent functional utility, pursuant to the following provisions:
(a)The deduction provided in this paragraph
includes the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from all of the
following:
(i)Any activity performed on machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property with independent functional utility.
(ii)Any activity performed on any tangible personal
property relating to machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
with independent functional utility in furtherance of any of the purposes
provided for under subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(iii)Any activity that is related to the activities
described in items (i) and (ii) of this subdivision, including inspecting the
installation of or testing the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property.
(b)The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from the portion of any
contracting activity that consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property described in section 425061, subsection B.
(c)The deduction provided in this paragraph shall
be determined without regard to the size or useful life of the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property.
(d)For the purposes of this paragraph,
"independent functional utility" means that the machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property can independently perform its function
without attachment to real property, other than attachment for any of the
following purposes:
(i)Assembling the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property.
(ii)Connecting items of machinery, equipment or
other tangible personal property to each other.
(iii)Connecting the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property, whether as an individual item or as a system of
items, to water, power, gas, communication or other services.
(iv)Stabilizing or protecting the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property during operation by bolting,
burying or performing other dissimilar nonpermanent connections to either real
property or real property improvements.
14.13.The leasing or
renting of certified ignition interlock devices installed pursuant to the
requirements prescribed by section 281461. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "certified ignition interlock device" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 281301.
15.14.Computer data
center equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant
of the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use in a
computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority under
section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase,
the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer
its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that
establishes its qualification for the deduction.For the purposes of
this paragraph, "computer data center", "computer data center
equipment", "qualification period" and "qualified
colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
16.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract with the owner of
real property or improvements to real property for the maintenance, repair,
replacement or alteration of existing property, except as specified in this
paragraph. The gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a deminimis
amount of modification activity does not subject the contract or any part of
the contract to tax. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)Each
contract is independent of another contract, except that any change order that
directly relates to the scope of work of the original contract shall be treated
the same as the original contract under this chapter, regardless of the amount
of modification activities included in the change order. If a change order
does not directly relate to the scope of work of the original contract, the
change order shall be treated as a new contract, with the tax treatment of any
subsequent change order to follow the tax treatment of the contract to which
the scope of work of the subsequent change order directly relates.
(b)Any term
not defined in this paragraph that is defined in section 425075 has the
same meaning prescribed in section 425075.
(c)This
paragraph does not apply to a contract that primarily involves surface or
subsurface improvements to land and that is subject to title 28, chapter 19, 20
or 22 or title 34, chapter 2 or 6 even if the contract also includes vertical
improvements. If a city or town imposes a tax on contracts that are subject to
procurement processes under those provisions, the city or town shall include in
the request for proposals a notice to bidders when those projects are subject
to the tax.This subdivision does not apply to contracts with:
(i)Community
facilities districts, fire districts, county television improvement districts,
community park maintenance districts, cotton pest control districts, hospital
districts, pest abatement districts, health service districts, agricultural
improvement districts, county free library districts, county jail districts,
county stadium districts, special health care districts, public health services
districts, theme park districts, regional attraction districts or
revitalization districts.
(ii)Any
special taxing district not specified in item (i) of this subdivision if the
district does not substantially engage in the modification, maintenance,
repair, replacement or alteration of surface or subsurface improvements to
land.
17.15.Monitoring
services relating to an alarm system as defined in section 32101.
18.16.Tangible
personal property, job printing or publications sold to or purchased by, or
tangible personal property leased, rented or licensed for use to or by, a
qualifying health sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
19.17.The transfer of
title or possession of coal back and forth between an owner or operator of a
power plant and a person who is responsible for refining coal if both of the
following apply:
(a)The transfer of title or possession of the coal
is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or possession of the coal is
transferred back to the owner or operator of the power plant after completion
of the coal refining process. For the purposes of this subdivision, "coal
refining process" means the application of a coal additive system that
aids the reduction of power plant emissions during the combustion of coal and
the treatment of flue gas.
20.18.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income from sales of low or reduced cost articles of
food or drink to eligible elderly or homeless persons or persons with a
disability by a business subject to tax under section 425074 that
contracts with the department of economic security and that is approved by the
food and nutrition service of the United States department of agriculture
pursuant to the supplemental nutrition assistance program established by the
food and nutrition act of 2008 (P.L. 110-246; 122 Stat. 1651; 7 United States
Code sections 2011 through 2036a), if the purchases are made with the benefits
issued pursuant to the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
21.19.Tangible
personal property that is incorporated
or fabricated into a project described in
paragraph 16 of this subsection, undertaken by a contractor pursuant to a contract with the
owner of real property or improvements to real property and that
is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for which
the owner, as defined in section 425075,
of the project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of
this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated Indian" means an
individual native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was established.
(b)"Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by treaty, law or executive
order and that are recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe" means any organized
nation, tribe, band or community that is recognized as an Indian tribe by the
United States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under
the laws of that Indian tribe.
(d)"Owner"
means the person that holds title to the real property or improvements to real
property that is the subject of the work, as well as an agent of the title
holder and any person with the authority to perform or authorize work on the
real property or improvements, including a tenant and a property manager. 
22.20.The charges for
the leasing or renting of space to make attachments to utility poles as
follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in the business of
providing or furnishing electrical services or telecommunication services or
that is a cable operator.
(b)To a person that is engaged in the business of
providing or furnishing electrical services or telecommunication services or
that is a cable operator.
B.A city, town or other taxing jurisdiction shall
not levy a transaction privilege, sales, use, franchise or other similar tax or
fee, however denominated, on natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas used to
propel a motor vehicle.
C.A city, town or other taxing jurisdiction shall
not levy a transaction privilege, sales, gross receipts, use, franchise or
other similar tax or fee, however denominated, on gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from any of the following:
1.A motor carrier's use on the public highways in
this state if the motor carrier is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28,
chapter 16, article4.
2.Leasing, renting or licensing a motor vehicle
subject to and on which the fee has been paid under title 28, chapter 16,
article 4.
3.The sale of a motor vehicle and any repair and
replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part of such motor
vehicle to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28,
chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the business of leasing, renting or
licensing such property.
4.Incarcerating or detaining in a privately
operated prison, jail or detention facility prisoners who are under the
jurisdiction of the United States, this state or any other state or a political
subdivision of this state or of any other state.
5.Transporting for hire persons, freight or property
by light motor vehicles subject to a fee under title 28, chapter 15, article 4.
6.Any amount attributable to development fees that
are incurred in relation to the construction, development or improvement of
real property and paid by the taxpayer as defined in the model city tax code or
by a contractor providing services to the taxpayer. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)The attributable amount shall not exceed the
value of the development fees actually imposed.
(b)The attributable amount is equal to the total
amount of development fees paid by the taxpayer or by a contractor providing
services to the taxpayer and the total development fees credited in exchange
for the construction of, contribution to or dedication of real property for providing
public infrastructure, public safety or other public services necessary to the
development.The real property must be the subject of the
development fees.
(c)"Development fees" means fees imposed
to offset capital costs of providing public infrastructure, public safety or
other public services to a development and authorized pursuant to section 9463.05,
section 111102 or title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the
fees are paid.
D.A city, town or other taxing jurisdiction shall
not levy a transaction privilege, sales, use, franchise or other similar tax or
fee, however denominated, in excess of one-tenth of one percent of the value of
the entire product mined, smelted, extracted, refined, produced or prepared for
sale, profit or commercial use, on persons engaged in the business of mineral
processing, except to the extent that the tax is computed on the gross proceeds
or gross income from sales at retail.
E.In computing the tax base, any city, town or
other taxing jurisdiction shall not include in the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income:
1.A manufacturer's cash rebate on the sales price
of a motor vehicle if the buyer assigns the buyer's right in the rebate to the
retailer.
2.The waste tire disposal fee imposed pursuant to
section 441302.
F.A city or town shall not levy a use tax on the
storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property in the city or town
by a school district or charter school.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed by section 9505.
2."Electrical services" means
transmitting or distributing electricity, electric lights, current or power
over lines, wires or cables.
3."Telecommunication services" means
transmitting or relaying sound, visual image, data, information, images or
material over lines, wires or cables by radio signal, light beam, telephone,
telegraph or any other electromagnetic means.
4."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Title 42, chapter 6, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 42-6013, to read:
START_STATUTE42-6013.Sale of tangible personal property to contractors; tax;
distribution; administration; definitions
A.A city or
town may not assess a transaction privilege tax or any other excise tax on
either of the following:
1.The
business of contracting.
2.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the sale of tangible personal
property to persons who are licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 10 for use
in any project for which a building permit is required.
B.A tax is levied:
1.On the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the sale of tangible personal property to persons who are licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 10 for use in any project for which a building
permit is required. The tax is levied at the rate of two percent of the tax
base.
2.On the
storage, use or consumption in this state of tangible personal property
purchased from a retailer by a person who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 10 for use in any project for which a building permit is required,
unless the tax prescribed in paragraph 1 of this subsection has been paid on
the purchase of the tangible personal property. The tax is levied at the rate
of two percent of the sales price.
C.The
department shall collect the tax imposed by this section on behalf of and
distribute the tax revenues to the cities and towns as provided in this
section.
D.The
department shall establish a uniform method for determining the value of
building permits issued by a city or town. On or before October 1 each year,
each city and town that imposes a transaction privilege tax shall report to the
department the value of building permits issued during the prior fiscal year.
The department shall distribute quarterly the revenues collected during the
following calendar year from the tax levied by this section to each city and
town that levies a transaction privilege tax based on the city's or town's
proportionate share of the total value of building permits issued by all cities
and towns in this state during the prior fiscal year.
E.Unless
the context otherwise requires, chapter 5, article 1 of this title governs the
administration of the tax imposed by this section, except that:
1.A
separate license is not required for the tax imposed by this section, and the
tax due under this section shall be included, reported and paid with the
transaction privilege tax.
2.A
separate bond is not required of employees of the department in administering
this section.
3.The tax
imposed by this section may be included without segregation in any notice and
lien filed for unpaid transaction privilege taxes.
F.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Contracting"
means engaging in business as a contractor.
2."Contractor"
is synonymous with the term "builder" and means any person or
organization that undertakes to or offers to undertake to, or purports to have
the capacity to undertake to, or submits a bid to, or does personally or by or
through others, modify any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation,
manufactured building or other structure, project, development or improvement,
or to do any part of such a project, including the erection of scaffolding or
other structures or works in connection with such a project, and includes
subcontractors and specialty contractors. This definition governs without
regard to whether a contractor is acting in fulfillment of a contract. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 42-6102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6102.Administration; exceptions
A.Unless
the context otherwise requires, chapter 5, article 1 of this title governs the
administration of the taxes imposed by this article, except that:
1.A separate license is not required for the taxes
imposed by this article, and the taxes due under this article shall be
included, reported and paid with the transaction privilege tax.
2.A separate bond is not required of employees of
the department in administering this article.
3.The taxes imposed by this article may be included
without segregation in any notice and lien filed for unpaid transaction
privilege taxes.
B.The taxes
imposed pursuant to this article do not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived pursuant to contracts entered into before the date of the
election to authorize the tax by prime contractors and owner builders who are
classified under sections 425075 and 425076 unless the contract
contains a provision which entitles the contractor to recover the amount of the
tax from a purchaser.In order to qualify for this exemption the
contractor shall provide sufficient documentation, in a manner and form
prescribed by the department, to verify that a contract was entered into before
the date of the election to authorize the tax. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 49-290, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-290.Exemption from permit requirements; definition
A.Notwithstanding any other statute, a person who
performs a remedial action or a portion of a remedial action that has been
approved by the department if that action or portion is conducted in compliance
with this article is not subject to any requirement to obtain any permit or
approval that may otherwise be required by the department.
B.Except as prescribed in subsection D of this
section, a person who conducts a portion of a remedial action, where that
portion is entirely on site and is conducted in compliance with this article,
may be exempted from a requirement to obtain any other state or local permit or
approval, other than any requirement of title 45, at the written request of the
person conducting the remedial action. The written request shall identify the
specific permit to be exempted and the reasons the exemption is
requested.The permit may be exempted if the director finds both of
the following:
1.The requirement does not arise out of any permit
or regulatory program that is required pursuant to the laws of the United
States.
2.The requirement presents a substantial impediment
to effective performance of the remedial action selected by the department.
C.The director may waive any regulatory requirement
adopted pursuant to this title with respect to a site or portion of a site as
part of a record of decision adopted pursuant to section 49287.04 for
that site or portion of a site if the regulatory requirement conflicts with the
implementation of the selected remedy, provided that the waiver does not result
in adverse impacts to public health or the environment. No waiver may be
granted under this subsection if it is prohibited by federal law or if the
waiver would jeopardize the continued delegation to the state of authority to
implement a federal environmental program.
D.Discharge of wastewater to off-site publicly
owned treatment works and sewer systems does not constitute an activity
conducted entirely on site for purposes of subsection B of this section.
E.The director shall give written notice of any
request for exemption made pursuant to subsection B of this section to the
remedial action coordinator designated pursuant to subsection G of this section
by the governmental entity whose permit requirements are the subject of the
request. Before making any finding pursuant to subsection B of this section,
the director or the director's designee shall meet and confer with the remedial
action coordinator and the person conducting the remedial action to identify
alternatives to exemption.
F.Any finding made by the director pursuant to
subsection B of this section shall be in writing.The governmental
entity whose permit requirement is preempted as a result of such finding is not
liable for property damage, personal injury damage or violations of state or
local law resulting from the exemption. The director shall notify the affected
governmental entity of any finding made pursuant to subsection B of this
section. A finding of the director made pursuant to subsection B of this
section is a final administrative decision as defined in section 411092
and is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7,
article6.
G.Each city, town and county shall designate a
remedial action coordinator who shall have responsibility for monitoring and
facilitating any remedial actions conducted within its jurisdiction. The
designated remedial action coordinator shall:
1.Regularly consult, as needed, with the department
and the person conducting a remedial action throughout the duration of the
remedial action.
2.Expedite the processing and issuance of permits,
approvals or other authorizations required by the governmental entity
represented by the remedial action coordinator, to facilitate the prompt
conduct of a remedial action.
3.Provide information to the department and the
person conducting the remedial action regarding applicable requirements of the
governmental entity represented by the remedial action coordinator and the
potential for waiver of such requirements.
H.In order to
encourage remediation activities under this article and to conserve the fund,
neither this state nor any county that imposes an excise or similar tax that is
levied at a rate applied as a percentage of the rates on each business class
subject to the tax imposed by title 42, chapter 5, article 1 may impose a tax
on the sale or purchase of tangible personal property incorporated or
fabricated into any real property, structure, project, development or
improvement under a contract specified in section 425075, subsection B,
paragraph 6.
I.H.For the purposes of this section,
"on site" means the areal extent of contamination and all suitable
areas in close proximity to the contamination that are reasonably necessary for
implementation of the remedial action. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Preexisting contracts; tax
A.This act does not
apply to or affect the tax liability with respect to contracts that were
entered into before January 1, 2017 by a person that engaged in business under
the prime contracting classification pursuant to section 42-5075, Arizona
Revised Statutes, or the construction contracting, owner-builder or speculative
builder classification pursuant to section 415, 416 or 417 of the model city
tax code.
B.Notwithstanding
section 42-5075, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, the tax
imposed by title 42, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is levied
and shall be collected at a rate of five and six-tenths percent of the tax
base, as determined pursuant to section 425075, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as in effect on December 31, 2016, derived pursuant to contracts
entered into before January 1, 2017 by prime contractors that were subject to
tax under section 42-5075, Arizona Revised Statutes, before January 1, 2017.
C.Prime contractors
shall maintain and provide to the department of revenue on request
documentation regarding payments received in satisfaction of contracts that are
subject to taxation under this section.
D.Twenty percent of the
tax revenues collected pursuant to this section is designated as distribution
base for purposes of section 42-5029, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act.
E.Notwithstanding
section 426004, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, the
municipal privilege tax imposed by an incorporated city or town is levied and
shall be collected at the rate in effect on December 31, 2016, as determined
pursuant to the model city tax code, derived pursuant to contracts entered into
before January 1, 2017 by construction contractors, owner-builders and
speculative builders that were subject to tax under section 415, 416 or 417 of
the model city tax code before January 1, 2017, unless the contract does not
contain a provision that entitles the taxpayer to recover the amount of the
tax.The taxpayer shall provide sufficient documentation to the
department of revenue.
F.The taxes imposed
pursuant to title 42, chapter 6, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, apply to
the tax base, as determined pursuant to section 42-5075, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as in effect on December 31, 2016, derived pursuant to contracts
entered into after the date of the election to authorize the tax and before
January 1, 2017 by prime contractors that engaged in business pursuant to
section 42-5075, Arizona Revised Statutes. Contracts entered into before the
date of the election to authorize the tax by prime contractors that engaged in
business pursuant to section 42-5075, Arizona Revised Statutes, are taxable
pursuant to title 42, chapter 6, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, on the
tax base, as determined pursuant to section 42-5075, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as in effect on December 31, 2016, unless the contract does not contain a
provision that entitles the taxpayer to recover the amount of the tax from a
purchaser.The taxpayer shall provide sufficient documentation to
the department of revenue.
G.Unless the context
otherwise requires, title 42, chapter 5, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes,
governs the administration of the tax imposed by this section.
Sec.22.Preexisting tax-exempt contracts
A.From and after December 31, 2016, the sale of
tangible personal property to a contractor for incorporation or fabrication,
pursuant to a contract entered into before January 1, 2017, into any project
that was subject to a deduction under section 42-5075, subsection B, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as in effect on December 31, 2016, is not subject to tax
under section 42-5061, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.
B.From and after December 31, 2016, the sale of
tangible personal property to a construction contractor, owner-builder or
speculative builder for incorporation or fabrication pursuant to a contract
entered into before January 1, 2017, into any project that was subject to a
deduction or exemption under section 415.b, 416.c.1 or 2, or 417.c.1 or 2 of
the model city tax code, as in effect on December 31, 2016, is not subject to
tax under section 460 of the model city tax code.
Sec.23.Use tax
A.Tangible personal
property that was purchased before January 1, 2017 by a person that engaged in
business under the prime contracting classification or performed contracting
services within the control of a prime contractor pursuant to section 42-5075,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, and that was not incorporated
into a project for which the contract was entered into before January 1, 2017
is subject to use taxation pursuant to section 425155, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act.
B.Tangible personal
property that was purchased before January 1, 2017 by a person that engaged in
business under the construction contracting, owner-builder or speculative
builder classification or performed contracting services within the control of
a construction contractor, ownerbuilder or speculative builder pursuant
to section 415, 416 or 417 of the model city tax code and that was not
incorporated into a project for which the contract was entered into before
January 1, 2017 is subject to use taxation under the model city tax code.
Sec.24.Department of revenue; emergency
rulemaking
The department of revenue may
adopt emergency rules pursuant to section 411026, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as necessary to administer this act.
Sec.25.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31,2016.

