







REFERENCE TITLE: postsecondary institutions; sexual
  consent policies







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2278









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Bolding, Cardenas, Espinoza, Fernandez, Otondo, Plumlee,
  Rios, Saldate, Velasquez: Alston, Friese, Gabaldn, Hale, McCune Davis





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 14, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 12; relating to
postsecondary education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
15, chapter 14, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 12, to
read:
ARTICLE
12.POLICIES DEFINING CONSENT TO SEXUAL ACTIVITY
START_STATUTE15-1897.Consent to sexual activity; policies
Each public and private college, university and community college in
this state shall adopt policies to define consent to sexual activity as
informed and freely given words or actions that indicate a willingness to
participate in mutually agreedon sexual activity. The policies shall
include statements providing that consent:
1.May not be inferred from any of the following:
(a)Silence.
(b)Passivity
or lack of resistance.
(c)A
current or previous dating or sexual relationship.
(d)The
acceptance or provision of a gift, meal, drink or other item.
(e)Previous
consent to sexual activity.
2.May be withdrawn during sexual activity and that
consent to one form of consensual sexual activity does not imply consent to any
other form of sexual activity.
3.May not be obtained through physical force, violence,
duress, intimidation, coercion or an express or implied threat of injury.
4.May not be given by a person who is any of the
following:
(a)Incapacitated
by drugs, alcohol or any other substance. The language adopted pursuant to
this subdivision shall provide that the use of alcohol or drugs does not
diminish a person's responsibility to obtain consent and does not excuse
conduct that violates this section.
(b)Unconscious.
(c)asleep.
(d)Physically
or mentally unable to make informed, rational judgments. 
(e)By
virtue of age, circumstances or other factors, deemed by law to be incapable of
giving consent. END_STATUTE

