







REFERENCE TITLE: ranked choice voting







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2283









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Clark: Hale, Larkin, Mach





AN ACT

amending sections
16-424, 16-446 and 16-449, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 16, chapter
4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 15; relating to voting
procedures.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
16-424, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-424.Specifications of voting machine
A.A voting machine
shall be constructed to provide facilities for voting for candidates at both
primary and general elections.
B.A voting machine
shall:
1.Permit a voter to
vote for any person for any office whether or not nominated as a candidate.
2.Insure Ensure voting in absolute secrecy.
3.Permit a voter to
vote for any candidate or on any proposed constitutional amendment, question,
proposition or measure for whom or on which he
the voter is entitled
to vote, but none other.
4.Permit a voter to
vote for the lawful number of candidates for an office, but no more.
5.Prevent the voter
from voting for the same person twice.
6.implement ranked choice voting when
ranking for contests is possible.
6.7.Be
provided with a lock by which immediately after the polls are closed any
movement of the voting or registering mechanism is absolutely prevented.
C.A voting machine may
be equipped with a device or devices for printing, embossing or photographing
the count as shown on the candidate and amendment counters.The
device will furnish a sheet of machine counter readings prior to before the opening of the polls and in addition will provide
a sheet of machine counter readings immediately upon
on close of polls in a
minimum of three copies. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
16-446, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-446.Specifications of electronic voting system
A.An electronic voting
system consisting of a voting or marking device in combination with vote tabulating
equipment shall provide facilities for voting for candidates at both primary
and general elections.
B.An electronic voting
system shall:
1.Provide for voting in
secrecy when used with voting booths.
2.Permit each elector
to vote at any election for any person for any office whether or not nominated
as a candidate, to vote for as many persons for an office as he the
elector is entitled to vote for and to vote for or against any question
on which he the elector is entitled to vote, and the vote
tabulating equipment shall reject choices recorded on his the
elector's ballot card or paper ballot if the number of choices exceeds
the number that he the elector is entitled to
vote for the office or on the measure. 
3.Prevent the elector
from voting for the same person more than once for the same office.
4.Accommodate ranked choice voting when ranking for
contests is possible.
4.5.Be
suitably designed for the purpose used and be of durable construction, and may
be used safely, efficiently and accurately in the conduct of elections and
counting ballots.
5.6.Be
provided with means for sealing the voting or marking device against any
further voting after the close of the polls and the last voter has voted.
6.7.When
properly operated, record correctly and count accurately every vote cast.
7.8.Provide
a durable paper document that visually indicates the voter's selections, that
the voter may use to verify the voter's choices, that may be spoiled by the
voter if it fails to reflect the voter's choices and that permits the voter to
cast a new ballot. This paper document shall be used in manual audits and
recounts. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
16-449, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-449.Required test of equipment and programs; notice;
procedures manual
A.Within the period of
time before the election day prescribed by the secretary of state in the
instructions and procedures manual adopted pursuant to section 16452,
the board of supervisors or other election officer in charge, or for an
election involving state or federal candidates, the secretary of state, shall
have the automatic tabulating equipment and programs tested to ascertain that
the equipment and programs will correctly count the votes cast for all offices
and on all measures,
including those using the ranked choice voting method.Public
notice of the time and place of the test shall be given at least fortyeight
hours prior thereto by publication once in one or more daily or weekly
newspapers published in the town, city or village using such equipment, if a
newspaper is published therein, otherwise in a newspaper of general circulation
therein.The test shall be observed by at least two election
inspectors, who shall not be of the same political party, and shall be open to
representatives of the political parties, candidates, the press and the
public.The test shall be conducted by processing a preaudited group
of ballots so punched or marked as to record a predetermined number of valid
votes for each candidate and on each measure and shall include for each office
one or more ballots that have votes in excess of the number allowed by law in
order to test the ability of the automatic tabulating equipment and programs to
reject such votes. If any error is detected, the cause therefor shall be
ascertained and corrected and an errorless count shall be made before the
automatic tabulating equipment and programs are approved.A copy of
a revised program shall be filed with the secretary of state within fortyeight
hours after the revision is made. If the error was created by automatic
tabulating equipment malfunction, a report shall be filed with the secretary of
state within fortyeight hours after the correction is made, stating the
cause and the corrective action taken.The test shall be repeated
immediately before the start of the official count of the ballots in the same
manner as set forth above.After the completion of the count, the
programs used and the ballots shall be sealed, retained and disposed of as
provided for paper ballots.
B.Electronic ballot
tabulating systems shall be tested for logic and accuracy within seven days
before their use for early balloting pursuant to the instructions and
procedures manual for electronic voting systems that is adopted by the
secretary of state as prescribed by section 16452.The
instructions and procedures manual shall include procedures for the handling of
ballots, the electronic scanning of ballots and any other matters necessary to
ensure the maximum degree of correctness, impartiality and uniformity in the
administration of an electronic ballot tabulating system.
C.Notwithstanding
subsections A and B of this section, if a county uses accessible voting
equipment to mark ballots and that accessible voting equipment does not
independently tabulate or tally votes, the secretary of state in cooperation
with the county officer in charge of elections may designate a single date to
test the logic and accuracy of both the accessible voting equipment and
electronic ballot tabulating systems. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 16,
chapter 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 15, to read:
ARTICLE
15.RANKED CHOICE VOTING
START_STATUTE16-731.Ranked choice voting; threshold
A.In any election in which ranked choice voting is used,
the following apply:
1.For an election to fill two or more seats for the same
office and term, an elector may vote for the candidates for that office by
indicating the elector's order of preference among the candidates. An elector
may vote for and rank as few of the candidates as the elector wishes or the
elector may vote for and rank as many of the candidates as permitted for that
ballot as otherwise provided by law.
2.For an election to fill a single seat for an office
and term, an elector may vote for and rank as few of the candidates as the
elector wishes or the elector may vote for and rank as many of the candidates
as permitted for that ballot as otherwise provided by law. The threshold
formula for a single seat contest shall result in a majority.
B.For any election with ranked choice voting, the
threshold number of votes necessary for a candidate to be elected is:
1.The fewest votes that can be obtained by no more than
the number of candidates to be elected.
2.Calculated by determining the total number of valid
votes cast and dividing that number by the sum of one plus the number of
candidates to be elected, then adding one vote to the amount calculated and
ignoring any fractions in the results, as shown in the following formula:
(TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTES CAST)
(1 + Number of candidates to be elected for that office) + 1 =
Threshold
C.Ballots shall be tallied and allocated in rounds of
counting and each ballot shall be counted as one vote for that ballot's highest
ranked advancing candidate.An advancing candidate is a candidate who
has not reached the threshold number for election and who has not been
eliminated from the contest as prescribed by section 16-733.
D.Each candidate who reaches the threshold number of
votes is elected. If more than one candidate reaches the threshold number in a
round of counting, the ballots of the candidate who receives the largest number
of first choice votes shall be the first votes redistributed at their transfer
value to the second choice indicated on that ballot or the next available
choice if the second choice candidate has already been elected or eliminated.
The transfer procedure shall be repeated for the ballots of the remaining
candidate who was elected on the first round if all seats have not been elected
by the first redistribution. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-732.Surplus votes; redistribution; transfer value
A.Votes that are acquired by an advancing candidate in
excess of the threshold number required for that election constitute the
candidate's surplus votes.Any surplus votes that candidate has
received shall be redistributed among the other advancing candidates as
follows:
1.Each vote that was received by the elected candidate
shall be redistributed to the next available choice on that ballot according to
a transfer value for each ballot. A ballot shall not be transferred if it does
not contain a valid choice to transfer. Valid ballots shall be transferred and
the transfer value shall be established after transfer.The transfer
value shall be determined by dividing the number of surplus votes cast for the
elected candidate by the total number of votes received by the elected
candidate, calculated to five decimal places and then rounded to the fourth
decimal place.
2.The Transfer value is depicted in the following
formula:
(NUMBER OF SURPLUS VOTES FOR THE ELECTED CANDIDATE)
(Total number of votes received by the elected candidate) = transfer
value.
B.If a candidate receives more than the threshold number
of votes necessary to be elected as a result of the redistribution of surplus
votes from a previously elected candidate, the number of votes in excess of the
minimum threshold of votes necessary to be elected shall be redistributed to
the advancing candidates. This redistribution shall be to the next available
choice shown on each of the elected candidate's ballots. The transfer value
for the ballots on which the candidate was the first choice shall be the same
as the transfer value prescribed in subsection A of this section. The lesser
transfer value for each ballot that is transferred to the advancing candidate
from one or more previously elected candidates shall be determined as follows:
1.The surplus votes cast for the elected candidate shall
be divided by the total number of votes received by the elected candidate and
multiplied by the previous transfer value of that ballot. The amount shall be
calculated to five decimal places and then rounded to the fourth decimal place.
2.The surplus value is depicted in the following
formula:
(NUMBER OF SURPLUS VOTES CAST FOR THE ELECTED
CANDIDATE)
(Total number of votes received by the elected candidate) x previous
transfer value of that ballot = lesser transfer value.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-733.Elimination rounds; transfer of votes; limitation
A.For any round of ballot counting in which there are no
more surpluses to transfer and the seats are not yet filled, the candidate with
the lowest number of votes shall be eliminated. In elimination rounds, all of
that eliminated candidate's votes including first choice votes and any votes
that were received from a previously elected candidate's surplus at the transfer
value shall be transferred to the advancing candidates according to the next
available choice shown on the eliminated candidate's ballots. The eliminated
candidate's first choice votes shall be transferred to the second, or next
available, choice at full value. Any votes that are received from previously
elected or eliminated candidates shall be transferred to advancing candidates
at the transfer value at which each vote was received.
B.Votes may not be transferred to candidates who have
already met the threshold number and votes may not be transferred to candidates
who have been eliminated.If a voter's next choice is not eligible
for receipt of transferred votes, that vote or portion of a vote shall be
transferred to the voter's next indicated choice until all choices on that
ballot have been exhausted.A ballot is exhausted if after the
preferred candidates are eliminated, the ballot does not indicate one of the
advancing candidates as an alternate choice. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-734.Sequence of tabulation; candidates declared elected
The tabulation of votes to be redistributed after the first round of
counting shall continue in the following sequence:
1.The surplus votes of elected candidates are
redistributed until there are no more candidates to receive the minimum
threshold of votes necessary to be elected.
2.The votes of eliminated candidates are redistributed
until another candidate receives the minimum threshold number of votes
necessary to be elected.
3.When the number of advancing candidates plus the
number of elected candidates who have reached the threshold in previous rounds
is equal to the number of candidates to be elected, all of the advancing candidates
shall be declared elected, whether or not those candidates have received the
minimum threshold number of votes necessary to be elected. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-735.Tally report for ranked choice voting
Notwithstanding any other law, For each office elected by ranked
choice voting, the statement of the result shall include all of the following:
1.The number of votes cast in each election district for
each advancing candidate in each official round of counting, where possible.
2.The number of exhausted ballots in each district in
each official round of counting, where possible.
3.The total number of votes cast that are counted for
each advancing candidate in each official round of counting.
4.The total number of exhausted ballots in each official
round of counting. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-736.Ranked choice voting; applicability; ballot format; rules
A.Notwithstanding any other law, the single-seat ranked
choice method may be used in any city, town or county election contest in which
a voter has three or more voting options for a particular office or issue.
B.Notwithstanding any other law, the multiseat ranked
choice voting method may be used in any city, town or county election contest
in which a voter has three or more voting options for that group of offices.
C.Ballots approved under this section shall be as simple
and easy to use as practicable and shall allow a voter to rank candidates for
an office or group of offices in the order of that voter's choice. If
practicable, ballots shall be designed in a way that voters may mark their
first choices in the same manner as that for offices that are not elected by
the ranked choice method. If the secretary of state determines that the number
of candidates for a particular office exceeds the practicable space
requirements for ranking all candidates on the ballot, the secretary of state
may limit the number of ranked choices that the voter may make, except that if
there are five or more candidates for an office, the secretary of state shall
provide for ranking at least two more candidates than the number of seats to be
filled in that contest.
D.The secretary of state by rule may:
1.Provide for the use of mechanical, electronic or other
devices for marking, sorting and counting the ballots and tabulating the
results.
2.Modify the form of the ballots and the instructions to
voters to comply with the system of ranked choice voting.
3.Prescribe the method of marking, sorting, counting,
invalidating and tabulating votes, except that rules or procedures adopted
shall not conflict with the substance or intent of this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-737.Sample ballots; instructions to voters; voter intent
A.Instructions on the ballot shall include the following
statement:
1.Rank candidates in order of your preference.
2.You may rank as few candidates as you wish or as many
as is allowed.
3.Ranking additional candidates will not hurt your
higher ranked favorite candidates, but will increase your chances of having
your ballot count for a candidate if no candidate initially gets enough votes
to win.
4.Do not skip rankings or give the same ranking to more
than one candidate.
5.Do not rank the same candidate more than once.
B.The officer in charge of elections shall post sample
ballots that use fictitious names to illustrate voting
procedures.The sample ballots shall be posted in or near the voting
booth and shall be included in the instruction materials for absentee ballots
or early voters, in mailed voter pamphlets and in internet voter
education.Before each election, the secretary of state shall
conduct a voter education campaign to educate voters on the use and purpose of
the ranked choice voting method. The secretary of state shall use public
service announcements as well as seek other media cooperation to the maximum
extent practicable.
C.In counting ballots, election officials shall attempt
to ascertain the intent of the voter as expressed by the voter's markings on
the ballot as provided by law and as prescribed in the instructions and
procedures manual adopted by the secretary of state. If it is impossible to
determine the intent of the voter for any office or public question, that
ballot shall be counted as blank or spoiled for that office or question only
and that determination does not apply for any other office or question on the
ballot for which the voter's intent can be determined. The secretary of state
shall include in the instructions and procedures manual provisions on
determining whether a ballot is spoiled and whether a voter's intent can be
determined. The instructions and procedures manual shall conform to the intent
and substance of this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE16-738.Method of tabulating votes; instructions to voters
The following apply when ranked choice voting ballots are tabulated:
1.If after a ballot's first choice candidate is
eliminated, a ballot does not indicate one of the advancing candidates as an alternate
choice, the ballot is exhausted and shall not be tabulated further.
2.If a voter skips exactly one numerical ranking on that
voter's ballot, the skipped ranking will be ignored and that ballot will be
valid and tabulated.
3.If a voter skips two or more numerical rankings on the
voter's ballot, only those rankings that were lower than the two skipped
rankings will be counted as valid.
4.If a voter gives the same ranking to more than one
candidate, the voter's rankings shall be counted in order of preference,
stopping at the point where the ballot contains the same ranking for more than
one candidate.
5.If a voter ranks the same candidate more than once,
the highest ranking for that candidate is valid and any lower rankings of that
candidate are ignored.
6.For any tied votes that must be broken and that occur
at any stage in the tabulation, the advantage goes to the candidate who was
credited with the most votes in the immediately preceding round of tabulation.
For tied votes for which there is no previous round of tabulating, the
following apply:
(a)A
tie for the fewest votes between candidates who will not be advancing and who
have been eliminated from the contest shall be resolved by simultaneously
eliminating both candidates and tabulating and transferring the remaining valid
choices for advancing candidates.The round of counting is not
complete until the ballots of both eliminated candidates are tabulated.
(b)A
tie between candidates in which two or more candidates have an equal number of
first choice votes and more than two candidates would advance to the final
round shall be resolved as prescribed by section 16649. END_STATUTE

