







REFERENCE TITLE: barber licenses; education
  qualifications







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2292









Introduced by
Representative
  Boyer





AN ACT

amending section
32-322, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to barber licensure.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-322, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-322.Barber license; application; qualifications; reciprocity
A.An applicant for a barber license shall file the
following with the board:
1.A written application on a form prescribed by the
board.
2.Evidence satisfactory to the board that the
applicant possesses the necessary qualifications.
3.One signed photograph.
B.Each applicant shall:
1.Be at least sixteen years of age.
2.Have
completed and received appropriate credits for at least two years of high
school education or its equivalent as prescribed by the board in its rules.
2.have
earned a recognized high school diploma or the equivalent of a recognized high
school diploma or be beyond the age of compulsory education as provided by
section 15802.
3.Pass an examination given under the direction of
the board.
4.Pay the prescribed fees.
5.Be a graduate of a school that is licensed pursuant to this chapter or a
graduate of a school or program in another state which that
at the time of his the applicant's graduation met
the barber licensing requirements of that state.
C.An applicant who holds a valid license to
practice barbering issued by another state which that
has, in the opinion of the board, licensure requirements that are
substantially equivalent to the requirements of this state and which that
grants similar reciprocal privileges to barbers licensed by this
state and who has at least one year's experience as a licensed barber is exempt
from subsection B, paragraph 3 of this
section.
D.Notwithstanding subsection B, paragraph 5 of this section, an applicant
for a barber license who holds a cosmetologist license issued pursuant to
chapter 5 of this title shall complete a seven hundred fifty hour fifty-hour course of study consisting of
barbering techniques in a barbering school licensed pursuant to this chapter. END_STATUTE

