







REFERENCE TITLE: study committee; Arizona's 911 system







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2365









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe, Carter, Coleman: Borrelli, Boyer, Brophy McGee, Cobb, Fann, Finchem,
  Mitchell, Otondo, Shope, Townsend





AN ACT

establishing the
study committee on Arizona's 911 system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Study committee on Arizona's 911 system; membership;
duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The study committee on Arizona's 911 system is
established consisting of the following members:
1.The governor or the governor's designee.
2.One member of the senate who is appointed by the
president of the senate and who shall serve as cochairperson of the study
committee.
3.One member of the house of representatives who is
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who shall serve as
cochairperson of the study committee.
4.One member who represents a city with a
population of more than one million persons and who is appointed by the
governor.
5. One member who represents a town with a
population of less than one hundred thousand persons and who is appointed by
the governor.
6.One member who represents the department of
administration state of Arizona 9-1-1 program office and who is appointed by
the governor.
7.One member who represents the law enforcement
community and who is appointed by the president of the senate.
8.One member who represents the firefighter
community and who is appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
9.Two members who represent the telecommunications
industry and who have experience in the design, management and operation of
public safety emergency communications systems, one of whom is appointed by the
president of the senate and one of whom is appointed by the speaker of the
house of representatives.
B.The study committee shall examine and hold
hearings regarding all of the following:
1.The efficacy by which the telecommunication
service excise tax levied pursuant to title 42, chapter 5, article 6, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is collected and remitted for its intended purpose.
2.The impact that reductions in the
telecommunication service excise tax and fund sweeps from the emergency
telecommunication services revolving fund established by section 41704,
Arizona Revised Statutes, have had on 911 services throughout Arizona and the
deployment of Arizona 911 wireless phase II and the transition to next
generation 911.
3.The telecommunication service excise tax, the
amount of funding collected and the expenditures made in this state for 911
systems in comparison to other states.
4.The status of the deployment of Arizona 911
wireless phase II and the transition to next generation 911.
5.The necessity of and requirements for and costs
to maintain and upgrade the current 911 system.
6.The funding mechanism used by this state to
provide services and equipment required to handle 911 calls.
C.The study committee shall make recommendations
regarding the current funding mechanism to cover the cost of the maintenance
and upgrades of the current 911 system.
D.The legislature shall provide staff and support
services to the study committee.
E.The study committee shall meet at the state
capitol or at other places as the cochairpersons deem necessary or convenient,
and all meetings shall be open to the public.
F.Members of the study committee are not eligible
to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant
to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
G.On or before November 1, 2017, the study
committee shall submit a report regarding its findings and recommendations to
the governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of
the senate and provide a copy of the report to the secretary of state.
H.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2017.

