







REFERENCE TITLE: biological products; prescription orders







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2310









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cobb, Coleman, Senators Meza, Yee: Representatives Borrelli, Boyer, Brophy
  McGee, Carter, Clark, Finchem, Friese, Lawrence, Meyer, Shope, Weninger,
  Senators Begay, Dial, Hobbs, Shooter





AN ACT

Amending sections
23908 and 321963.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
biological products.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-908, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-908.Injury reports by employer and physician; schedule of
fees; violation; classification
A.Every employer that is affected by this chapter,
and every physician who attends an injured employee of such employer, shall
file with the commission and the employer's insurance carrier from time to time
a full and complete report of every known injury to the employee arising out of
or in the course of employment and resulting in loss of life or injury. Such a
report shall be furnished to the commission and the insurance carrier at times and
in the form and detail the commission prescribes, and the report shall make
special answers to all questions required by the commission under its rules.
B.The commission shall fix a schedule of fees to be
charged by physicians, physical therapists or occupational therapists attending
injured employees and, subject to subsection C of this section, for
prescription medicines required to treat an injured employee under this
chapter.The commission shall annually review the schedule of fees.
C.If a schedule of fees for prescription medicines
adopted pursuant to subsection B of this section includes provisions regarding
the use of generic equivalent drugs or
interchangeable biological products, those provisions shall
comply with section 321963.01, subsections A, B and C D through J
L. If the commission considers the adoption of fee schedule
provisions that involve specific prices, values or reimbursements for
prescription drugs, the commission shall base the adoption on studies or
practices that are validated and accepted in the industry, including the
applicability of formulas that use average wholesale price, plus a dispensing
fee, and that have been made publicly available for at least one hundred eighty
days before any hearing conducted by the commission.
D.Notwithstanding section 122235,
information obtained by any physician or surgeon examining or treating an
injured person shall not be considered a privileged communication, if that
information is requested by interested parties for a proper understanding of
the case and a determination of the rights involved.Hospital
records of an employee concerning an industrial claim shall not be considered
privileged if requested by an interested party in order to determine the rights
involved.Medical information from any source pertaining to
conditions unrelated to the pending industrial claim shall remain privileged.
E.When an accident occurs to an employee, the
employee shall forthwith report the accident and the injury resulting therefrom
to the employer, and any physician employed by the injured employee shall
forthwith report the accident and the injury resulting therefrom to the
employer, the insurance carrier and the commission.
F.When an accident occurs to an employee, the
employer may designate in writing a physician chosen by the employer, who shall
be permitted by the employee, or any person in charge of the employee, to make
one examination of the injured employee in order to ascertain the character and
extent of the injury occasioned by the accident. The physician so chosen shall
forthwith report to the employer, the insurance carrier and the commission the
character and extent of the injury as ascertained
by him the physician
ascertains.If the accident is not reported by the
employee or his the employee's physician
forthwith, as required, or if the injured employee or those in charge of him the employee refuse to permit the employer's
physician to make the examination, and the injured employee is a party to the
refusal, no compensation shall be paid for the injury claimed to have resulted
from the accident.The commission may relieve the injured person or his that person's dependents from the loss or
forfeiture of compensation if it believes after investigation that the
circumstances attending the failure on the part of the employee or his physician to report the
accident and injury are such as to have excused them.
G.Within ten days after receiving notice of an
accident, the employer shall inform the insurance carrier and the commission on
such forms and in such manner as may be prescribed by the commission.
H.Immediately on notice to the employer of an
accident resulting in an injury to an employee, the employer shall provide the
employee with the name and address of the employer's insurance carrier, the
policy number and the expiration date.
I.Any person failing or refusing to comply with
this section is guilty of a petty offense. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1963.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1963.01.Substitution for prescription drugs or biological
products; requirements; label; definitions
A.If a medical practitioner prescribes a brand name
drug and does not indicate an intent to prevent substitution as prescribed in
subsection D E of this section, a
pharmacist may fill the prescription with a generic equivalent drug.
B.A
pharmacist may substitute a biological product for a prescribed biological
product only if all of the following conditions are met:
1.The
United States food and drug administration has determined the substituted
product to be an interchangeable biological product.
2.The
prescribing physician does not designate in writing or electronically that
substitution is prohibited in a manner pursuant to subsection E of this
section.
3.The
pharmacy informs the patient or person presenting the prescription of the
substitution pursuant to subsection C of this section.
4.Within
five business days after dispensing a biological product, the dispensing
pharmacist or the pharmacist's designee makes an entry of the specific product
provided to the patient, including the name of the product and the
manufacturer. The communication shall be conveyed by making an entry that is
electronically accessible to the prescriber through an interoperable electronic
medical records system, an electronic prescribing technology, a pharmacy
benefit management system, or a pharmacy record.Entry into an electronic
records system as described in this paragraph is presumed to provide notice to
the prescriber. Otherwise, the pharmacist shall communicate the biological
product dispensed to the prescriber using fax, telephone, electronic
transmission or other prevailing means, except that communication is not
required if one of the following applies:
(a)There is no interchangeable
biological product approved by the United States food and drug administration
for the product prescribed.
(b)A refill prescription is not
changed from the product dispensed on the prior filling of the prescription.
5.The
pharmacy retains a record of the biological product dispensed pursuant to
section 321964, subsection A.
B.C.Any
pharmacy personnel shall notify the person presenting the prescription of the
amount of the price difference between the brand name drug or biological product prescribed and the
generic equivalent drug or
interchangeable biological product, if both of the following
apply:
1.The medical practitioner does not indicate an
intent to prevent substitution with a generic equivalent drug or interchangeable biological product.
2.The transaction is not subject to third-party
reimbursement.
C.D.The
pharmacist shall place on the container the name of the drug or biological product dispensed followed by
the words "generic equivalent for" or "interchangeable biological product for"
followed by the brand or trade name of the product that is being replaced by
the generic equivalent drug or
interchangeable biological product.The pharmacist
shall include the brand or trade name on the container or label of any contact
lenses dispensed pursuant to this chapter.
D.E.A
prescription generated in this state must be dispensed as written only if the
prescriber writes or clearly displays "DAW", "dispense as
written", "do not substitute",
or "medically necessary" or any statement by the
prescriber that clearly indicates an intent to prevent substitution on the face
of the prescription form.A prescription from out of state or from
agencies of the United States government must be dispensed as written only if
the prescriber writes or clearly displays "do not substitute",
"dispense as written" or "medically necessary" or any
statement by the prescriber that clearly indicates an intent to prevent
substitution on the face of the prescription form.
E.F.This
section applies to all prescriptions, including those presented by or on behalf
of persons receiving state or federal assistance payments.
F.G.An
employer or agent of an employer of a pharmacist shall not require the
pharmacist to dispense any specific generic equivalent drug or interchangeable biological product or to substitute any specific
generic equivalent drug or
interchangeable biological product for a brand name drug or biological product against
the professional judgment of the pharmacist or the order of the prescriber.
G.H.The
liability of a pharmacist in substituting according to this section shall be is no greater than that which is incurred in the filling of a
generically written prescription. This subsection does not limit or diminish
the responsibility for the strength, purity or quality of drugs provided in
section 321963. The failure of a prescriber to specify that no
substitution is authorized does not constitute evidence of negligence.
H.I.A
pharmacist may not make a substitution pursuant to this section unless the
manufacturer or distributor of the generic equivalent drug or interchangeable biological product has
shown that:
1.All products dispensed have an expiration date on
the original package.
2.The manufacturer or distributor maintains recall
and return capabilities for unsafe or defective drugs or biological products.
J.The board
shall maintain on its public website a link to the current list of each
biological product determined by the United States food and drug administration
to be an interchangeable biological product.
I.K.The
labeling and oral notification requirements of this section do not apply to
pharmacies serving patients in a health care institution as defined in section
36401. However, in order for this exemption to apply to hospitals, the
hospital must have a formulary to which all medical practitioners of that
hospital have agreed and that is available for inspection by the board.
J.L.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Biological
product" has the same meaning prescribed in 42 United States Code section
262.
1.2."Brand
name drug" means a drug with a proprietary name assigned to it by the
manufacturer or distributor.
2.3."Formulary"
means a list of medicinal drugs.
3.4."Generic
equivalent" or "generically equivalent" means a drug that has an
identical amount of the same active chemical ingredients in the same dosage
form, that meets applicable standards of strength, quality and purity according
to the United States pharmacopeia or other nationally recognized compendium and
that, if administered in the same amounts, will provide comparable therapeutic
effects. Generic equivalent or generically equivalent does not include a drug
that is listed by the federal united states food and drug
administration as having unresolved bioequivalence concerns according to the
administration's most recent publication of approved drug products with
therapeutic equivalence evaluations.
5."Interchangeable biological product"
means a biological product that either:
(a)The
United States food and drug administration has licensed and determined meets
the safety standards for determining interchangeability pursuant to 42 United
States Code section 262(k)(4).
(b)Is determined to be
therapeutically equivalent as set forth in the latest edition of the supplement
to the United States food and drug administration's approved drug products with
therapeutic equivalence evaluations. END_STATUTE

