







REFERENCE TITLE: patent troll prevention act







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2386









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending title
44, chapter 10, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 2; relating to
patent claims.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 44, chapter 10, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 2, to read:
ARTICLE 2.PATENT TROLL PREVENTION ACT
START_STATUTE44-1421.Definitions
In this
article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Assertion
of patent infringement" means any of the following:
(a)Sending or delivering
a demand to a target.
(b)Threatening a target
with litigation and asserting or alleging that the target has engaged in patent
infringement.
(c)Sending or delivering
a demand to the customers of a target.
(d)Making assertions or
allegations, other than those made in litigation against a target, that a
target has engaged in patent infringement or that a target should obtain a
license to a patent in order to avoid litigation.
2."Claim"
means the scope of the patent owner's exclusive rights to the use and control
of the patent owner's invention.
3."Demand"
means a letter, an e-mail or any other communication asserting that a person
has engaged in patent infringement.
4."Person"
means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
governmental entity, institution of higher education or other legal or
commercial entity.
5."Target"
means any of the following:
(a)A person that has
received a demand or against whom an assertion of patent infringement has been
made. 
(b)A person that has been
threatened with litigation or against whom a lawsuit has been filed alleging
patent infringement.
(c)A person that has at
least one customer who has received a demand asserting that the person's
product, service or technology has infringed a patent. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-1422.Bad faith patent infringement claims; prohibited
A.A person may not make an assertion
of patent infringement in bad faith. A court may consider the following
nonexclusive factors as evidence that a person has made an assertion of patent
infringement in bad faith:
1.The
demand does not contain all of the following:
(a)the patent number
issued by the united states patent and trademark office or foreign agency.
(b)the name and address
of the patent owner or assignee, if any.
(c)facts relating to the
specific areas in which the target's product, service or technology infringes
the patent or is covered by the claims in the patent. 
2.The
target requested the information described in paragraph 1 of this subsection
and the person failed to provide the information within a reasonable time.
3.Before
making a demand, the person did not conduct an analysis comparing the claims in
the patent to the target's product, service or technology or the analysis was
conducted but does not identify specific areas in which the product, service or
technology is covered by the claims in the patent.
4.The
demand requested a response or payment of a licensing fee within an
unreasonably short period of time.
5.The
person making the assertion of patent infringement knew or should have known
that the assertion is without merit.
6.The
assertion of patent infringement contains false, misleading or deceptive
information.
7.The
person or a subsidiary or an affiliate of the person has previously filed or
threatened to file one or more lawsuits based on the same or substantially
equivalent assertion of patent infringement and a court found the person's
assertion of patent infringement to be without merit.
8.Any
other factor that the court determines to be relevant.
B.A
court may consider the following factors as evidence that a person has made an
assertion of patent infringement in good faith:
1.If
the demand does not contain the information prescribed in subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section, the person provides the information to the target
within a reasonable period of time after the target requests the information.
2.The
person has done all of the following:
(a)Engaged in a
reasonable analysis to establish a reasonable, good faith basis for believing
the target has infringed the patent.
(b)attempted to negotiate
an appropriate remedy in a reasonable manner.
(c)Either:
(i)Demonstrated
reasonable business practices in previous efforts to enforce the patent.
(ii)Successfully enforced
the patent, or a substantially similar patent, through litigation.
3.The
person has made a substantial investment in the use of the patent or in the
production or sale of a product covered by the patent.
4.The
person is either of the following:
(a)An inventor of the
patent or an original assignee. 
(b)an institution of
higher education or a technology transfer organization affiliated with an
institution of higher education.
5.Any
other factor that the court determines to be relevant.
C.UNless
done in bad faith, this section may not be construed to deem it an unfair or a
deceptive trade practice for any person who owns or has the right to license or
enforce a patent to do any of the following:
1.Advise
others of that ownership or right of license or enforcement.
2.Communicate
to others that the patent is available for license or sale.
3.Notify
another of the infringement of that patent pursuant to 35 united States Code
section 287.
4.Seek
compensation for a past or present infringement, or license to the patent, if
it is reasonable to believe that the person from whom compensation is sought
may owe the compensation or may need or want a license to practice the patent. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-1423.Enforcement
An act or
practice in violation of this article is an unlawful practice under section
44-1522 and subject to enforcement through private action and prosecution by
the attorney general. The attorney general may investigate and take
appropriate action as prescribed by article 7 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-1424.Federal patent infringement allegation exception
A demand or
assertion of patent infringement that arises under 35 united States Code
section 271(e)(2) or
42 united States Code section 262 is not subject to this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Severability
If a provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of the act that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.
Sec.3.Short title
Title 44, chapter 10, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, may be cited as the "Patent Troll Prevention Act".

