







REFERENCE TITLE: special health care districts; treasurer







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2308









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cobb: Thorpe, Townsend





AN ACT

amending section 48-5561,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to special health care districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 48-5561, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-5561.Deposit of district monies
A.Except as
provided in subsections D and E of this section, All special
health care district monies from any source shall be deposited with the county
treasurer to the credit of the district and shall be paid out only on warrants approved by as directed by the district's board of
directors. All district monies shall be
included in the county treasurer's investment pool.
B.Except as
provided in subsections D and E of this section, all private investment of the
district's monies is prohibited. Warrants may be issued only to pay for
necessary operational expenses, including, but not limited to, lawful claims
against the district, district employee payroll and contractual obligations of
the district. Warrants may not be issued for investment purposes.
C.Except as
provided in subsections D and E of this section, for banking purposes, the
district shall use the same bank as the bank used by the county and county
treasurer as their servicing bank. The district may not establish or maintain
an account with any other bank.
D.Notwithstanding
subsections A, B and C of this section, the district may appoint a treasurer
other than the county treasurer to hold, deposit into the districts banking
account, withdraw and invest all district monies other than special payments
pursuant to section 485561.01, and may enter into contracts with
servicing banks other than the treasurer's servicing bank if all of the
following conditions apply:
1.The
district may only use investment instruments under title 35.
2.All
provisions relating to audit and reporting requirements applicable to the
county treasurer shall, other than special payments made pursuant to section 485561.01,
also be applicable to the district treasurer.
3.If the
district appoints a treasurer of the district other than the county treasurer,
the county treasurer shall pay to the treasurer of the district all monies of
the district, other than special payments pursuant to section 485561.01,
in accordance with an intergovernmental agreement between the treasurer and the
district and shall take the receipt of the treasurer of the district therefor,
which shall constitute the county treasurer's discharge from any further
liability for the monies or the application of the monies. Interest earned on
monies invested by the district is not subject to subsection A of this section.
E.If the
district elects to proceed pursuant to subsection D of this section, after each
transfer required by section 485561.01, subsection A, has been made, the
county treasurer shall transfer any remaining funds as directed by the district
board.The district board shall direct that any transfer pursuant to
this subsection shall be to the district treasurer. END_STATUTE

