







REFERENCE TITLE: child prostitution; offense 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2374









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending section
133212, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to prostitution.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3212, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3212.Child prostitution; classification; increased punishment
A.A person commits child prostitution by knowingly:
1.Causing any minor to engage in prostitution.
2.Using any minor for the purposes of prostitution.
3.Permitting a minor who is under the person's
custody or control to engage in prostitution.
4.Receiving any benefit for or on account of
procuring or placing a minor in any place or in the charge or custody of any
person for the purpose of prostitution.
5.Receiving any benefit pursuant to an agreement to
participate in the proceeds of prostitution of a minor.
6.Financing, managing, supervising, controlling or
owning, either alone or in association with others, prostitution activity
involving a minor.
7.Transporting or financing the transportation of
any minor with the intent that the minor engage in prostitution.
8. Providing a means
by which a minor engages in prostitution.
B.A person who is at least eighteen years of age
commits child prostitution by knowingly:
1.Engaging in prostitution with a minor who is
under fifteen years of age.
2.Engaging in prostitution with a minor who the
person knows or should have known is fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years of
age.
3.Engaging in prostitution with a minor who is
fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years of age.
C.It is not a defense to a prosecution under
subsection A and subsection B, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section that the
other person is a peace officer posing as a minor or a person assisting a peace
officer posing as a minor.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, a sentence imposed
on a person for a violation of subsection A or subsection B, paragraph 2 of
this section involving a minor who is fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years of
age shall be consecutive to any other sentence imposed on the person at any
time.
E.Child prostitution pursuant to subsection A of
this section is a class 2 felony if the minor is under fifteen years of age and
is punishable pursuant to section 13705.
F.Child prostitution pursuant to subsection B,
paragraph 1 of this section is a class 2 felony and is punishable pursuant to
section 13705.
G.If the minor is fifteen, sixteen or seventeen
years of age, child prostitution pursuant to subsection A of this section is a
class 2 felony, the person convicted shall be sentenced pursuant to this
section and the person is not eligible for suspension of sentence, probation,
pardon or release from confinement on any basis except as specifically
authorized by section 31233, subsection A or B until the sentence
imposed by the court has been served or commuted. The presumptive term may be
aggravated or mitigated within the range under this section pursuant to section
13701, subsections C, D and E. The terms are as follows:
1.The term for a
first offense is as follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
10 years 13.5 years 24 years
2.The term for a defendant who has one historical
prior felony conviction is as follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
17 years 24 years 31 years
3.The term for a
defendant who has two or more historical prior felony convictions is as
follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
24 years 31 years 38 years
H.If the minor is fifteen, sixteen or seventeen
years of age, child prostitution pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 2 of this
section is a class 2 felony, the person convicted shall be sentenced pursuant
to this section and the person is not eligible for suspension of sentence,
probation, pardon or release from confinement on any basis except as
specifically authorized by section 31233, subsection A or B until the
sentence imposed by the court has been served or commuted. The presumptive
term may be aggravated or mitigated within the range under this section
pursuant to section 13701, subsections C, D and E. The terms are as
follows:
1.The term for a
first offense is as follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
7 years 10.5 years 21 years
2.The term for a defendant who has one historical
prior felony conviction is as follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
14 years 15.75 years 28 years
3.The term for a defendant who has two or more
historical prior felony convictions is as follows:
Minimum Presumptive Maximum
21 years 28 years 35 years
I.Child prostitution pursuant to subsection B,
paragraph 3 of this section is a class 6 felony. If the court sentences the
person to a term of probation, the court shall order that as an initial term of
probation the person be imprisoned in the county jail for not less than one
hundred eighty consecutive days.This jail term shall commence on
the date of sentencing. The court may suspend ninety days of the jail sentence
if the person has not previously been convicted of a violation of this section,
a violation of section 133214 or a violation of any city or town
ordinance that prohibits prostitution and that has the same or substantially
similar elements as section 133214 and the person successfully completes
an appropriate court ordered education or treatment program.
J.This section does not preclude the state from
alleging and proving any other sentencing enhancements as provided by law. END_STATUTE

