







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; safe-to-tell program







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2322









Introduced by
Representative
  Meyer





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
15-249.06; relating to the department of education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 2, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-249.06, to read:
START_STATUTE15-249.06.Safetotell program; requirements; safetotell
fund; program termination
A.The
department shall establish the safe-to-tell program in the department to enable
any person to anonymously report any dangerous, violent or unlawful activity
that is being conducted or is threatened to be conducted on school property, at
an activity sponsored by a public school or on a school bus of a public school.
B.Any
information relating to any dangerous, violent or unlawful activity or any
threat of dangerous, violent or unlawful activity that is reported pursuant to
this section is confidential and, except as otherwise required to be disclosed
by law in connection with a criminal investigation or criminal proceeding, may
not be disclosed to any person.
C.The
Program established pursuant to this section must include methods and
procedures to ensure that:
1.Information
reported pursuant to this section is promptly forwarded to the appropriate law
enforcement agencies and school officials.
2.The
identity of a person who reports information pursuant to this section is not
disclosed to any person:
(a)Who is employed by the
department.
(b)Who contracts with, serves as a
volunteer with or otherwise assists a person or organization with whom the
department contracts.
(c)Except as otherwise required to
be disclosed by law in connection with a criminal investigation or criminal
proceeding.
D.The
department may enter into agreements with a qualified third party to operate a
hotline or call center to receive initial reports made pursuant to this section
and to forward the information to law enforcement and school officials.
E.The
department shall offer training programs regarding the safetotell
program to law enforcement personnel and to employees of school districts and
charter schools.
F.The
department shall:
1.Post
information about the safe-to-tell program on the department's website.
2.Provide
to each public school in this state educational materials about the
safe-to-tell program that include the telephone number to call to make an
anonymous report.
G.The safetotell
fund is established consisting of monies received pursuant to this subsection.
The department shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund may be
distributed to implement and operate the safetotell program
established pursuant to this section. Monies in the fund are continuously
appropriated. The department may accept and deposit into the fund federal
monies and private grants, gifts, contributions and devises to assist in
carrying out the purposes of this section.
H.The
program established by this section ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 413102.END_STATUTE

