







REFERENCE TITLE: credit unions; meetings; actions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2381









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending sections
6-531, 6-533 and 6-537, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 6, chapter 4,
article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 6543; amending
section 6577, arizona revised statutes; relating to credit unions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-531.Authority and responsibility of directors; voting
A.The board of directors has the authority and
responsibility for directing the business affairs, monies and records of the
credit union.
B.Except as
provided in section 6-543, directors may not vote by proxy,
absentee ballot or mail ballot but may vote by telephone conference if all
directors present can speak to and be heard by the other directors during the
telephone conference.
C.The board of directors shall meet
at least ten times in ten different months during each calendar year. END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Section 6-533, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-533.Compensation of officials
An officer, director or
committee member, other than an employee, may not be compensated for services,
except that reasonable life, health, accident and similar insurance protection
is A credit union may
compensate an officer, director or committee member for the officer's,
director's or committee member's services to the credit union. Providing
reasonable life, health, accident and similar insurance protection is
not considered compensation.Directors, officers and committee
members may be reimbursed for necessary personal
expenses incidental to the performance of official business of the credit
union. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 6-537, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-537.Certain duties of directors; insurance
A.In addition to the duties prescribed in this
chapter, the board of directors shall
meet at least monthly and shall:
1.Purchase adequate fidelity coverage for the
credit union covering the president and other officials and employees handling
or having custody of monies or property of the credit union.
2.Authorize the employment and compensation of the
president, who may hire other persons as are necessary to carry out the
business of the credit union.
3.Approve an operating budget for the credit union.
4.Authorize the conveyance of property.
5.Borrow or lend money to carry on the functions of
the credit union.
6.Appoint special committees.
B.The board of directors shall perform other duties
as the members from time to time may direct and perform or authorize any action
not inconsistent with law or not specifically reserved by the bylaws to the
members.
C.The board of directors shall purchase and
maintain insurance for the credit union on behalf of a person who is or was a
director, officer, employee or agent of the credit union, or who is or was
serving at the request of the credit union as a director, officer, employee or
agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other
enterprise, against any liability asserted against the person and incurred by
the person in any such capacity or arising out of the person's status as such,
whether or not the credit union would have the power to indemnify the person
against the liability. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 6, chapter 4, article 5, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 6-543, to read:
START_STATUTE6-543.Action without meeting
A.Unless the articles of incorporation
or bylaws provide otherwise, action required or allowed to be taken at a board
of directors' meeting may be taken without a meeting by electronic means as
provided in this section if notice is given to each member of the board. The
notice shall state the action to be taken and the time by which a director must
respond. 
B.Action
may be taken under this section only if, at the end of the time stated in the
notice, both of the following apply:
1.The
votes that are received by the credit union by electronic means and that are in
favor of the action equal or exceed the minimum number of votes that would be
necessary to take the action at a meeting at which all of the directors then in
office were present and voted.
2.The
credit union has not received a written demand by a director as described in
subsection C of this section.
C.Any
director may demand that an action not be taken without a meeting by delivering
a signed writing to the president or secretary before the date given in the
notice prescribed by subsection A of this section.
D.Action
taken pursuant to this section:
1.has
the same effect as action taken at a meeting of the board of directors and may
be described as such in any document.
2.shall
be included in the minutes filed at the next board of directors' meeting.
E.all
communication pursuant to this section may be done by electronic means and each
director's vote must be signed using an electronic signature employing a
security procedure as defined in section 447002. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 6-577, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-577.Authorized investments
A.Monies not used in loans to members may be
invested in:
1.Securities, obligations or other instruments of
or issued by or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United
States or any agency or instrumentality of the United States or in any trust or
mutual fund established for investing directly or collectively in the same.
2.Securities, obligations or other instruments,
whose payment is guaranteed by the general taxing authority of the issuer, of
any state of the United States or any political subdivision of a state of the United States, and on approval
of the superintendent, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico and the several territories organized by Congress or any political
subdivision thereof.
3.Deposits of federally insured financial
institutions organized under state or federal law.
4.Loans to or share accounts or deposit accounts of
other credit unions or corporate credit unions organized under state or federal
law.
5.Deposits in, loans to or shares of any federal
reserve bank, federal home loan bank or central liquidity facility established
under state or federal law.
6.Shares, obligations or preferred stock issues of
any agency or association organized either as a stock company, mutual
association or membership corporation, if the membership or stock holdings of
such agency or association are primarily confined or restricted to credit
unions or organizations of credit unions and the purpose for which such agency
or association is organized is to service or otherwise assist credit union
operations.
7.Stocks, bonds or other obligations of
corporations organized in any state of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the several territories organized
by Congress and in securities, obligations or other instruments of any state of
the United States or any political subdivision thereof, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the several territories organized
by Congress, but not in the aggregate to exceed three per cent percent of the credit union's capital and not to exceed one
per cent percent of the credit union's capital in any
one corporation's stock, bonds and obligations.These investments
are limited to the three highest ratings established by one or more national
rating services of corporate securities designated by the superintendent.
8.Pools of participation loans with other credit
unions, credit union organizations or other financial institutions, not to
exceed five per cent percent of the credit union's
capital.
9.Other investments as approved by the
superintendent.
10.In
Fixed assets, not to exceed five per cent
of the credit union's capital except with the prior written approval of the
superintendent.
B.Investments authorized under subsection A,
paragraph 6 of this section shall
not exceed five per cent percent of the credit union's
capital, without the prior written approval of the
superintendent.The action of a credit union in investing monies in
accordance with subsection A, paragraph 6 of this section shall not be deemed a
violation of this section if the aggregate investments exceed the limitation of
subsection A, paragraph 6 of this
section because of a subsequent reduction in the amount of the
credit union's capital. END_STATUTE

