








REFERENCE TITLE: Native American veterans; tax refund







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2323









Introduced by
Representatives
  Borrelli, Andrade, Benally, Bolding, Cardenas, Hale, Larkin, Rios, Senators
  Begay, McGuire, Miranda, Pancrazi: Representatives Ackerley, Campbell, Cobb,
  Fann, Finchem, Lawrence, Livingston, Mitchell, Norgaard, Pratt, Shope,
  Senator Dial





AN ACT

Relating to
native american veterans; appropriating monies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Findings and intent
A.Native American veterans of the armed forces of
the United States who were domiciled within the boundaries of their tribal
lands or of their spouse's tribal lands while on active military service may
have been exempt from paying income tax to this state, but may have had state
income taxes mistakenly withheld from their military pay.
B.Native American veterans may be barred from
claiming refunds of those erroneously withheld tax payments due to the passage
of time or by the difficulty in meeting the strict legal standards of proof of
entitlement to refunds.
C.The intent of this act is to establish a process
to enable these Native American veterans to recover the state income taxes that
were erroneously withheld from their military pay.
Sec.2.Definitions
In this act, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Claimant" means a person who files a
claim for an income tax settlement refund under this act, either a Native
American veteran or, if the veteran is deceased, the veteran's surviving
spouse, personal representative, executor or other official representative of
the estate, as designated pursuant to applicable state or tribal law or
tradition.
2."Domicile" means a true, fixed and
permanent established home in which an individual resides or to which an
individual intends to return after a temporary definite or indefinite absence.
3."Fund" means the Native American
veterans' income tax settlement fund established by this act.
4."Native American" means an individual
Native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of the tribe
for whose benefit an Indian reservation was established.
5."Tribe" means any organized nation,
tribe, band or community that is recognized as a Native American tribe by the
United States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under
tribal law.
6."Veteran" means a Native American
citizen of the United States who was enlisted, drafted, inducted or
commissioned and who was accepted for and assigned to active duty in the armed
forces of the United States.
Sec.3.Native American veterans' income tax settlement fund;
exemption from lapsing
A.The Native American veterans' income tax
settlement fund is established consisting of monies appropriated by the
legislature and other monies donated or accruing to the fund. Monies in the
fund are continuously appropriated to the department of revenue for the
purposes of this act and as provided by subsection C of this section.
B.The department of revenue shall administer the
fund. On notice from the department, the state treasurer shall invest and
divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35-313, Arizona Revised
Statutes, and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35-190, Arizona
Revised Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations, except that unexpended
and unencumbered monies remaining in the fund on June 30, 2021 revert to the
state general fund.
C.Five percent of the monies in the fund at the
beginning of each fiscal year are appropriated separately to both the
department of revenue and the department of veterans' services for
administrative costs incurred under this act during the fiscal year. Any
unexpended and unencumbered balance of either appropriation remaining at the
end of the fiscal year reverts to the fund.
Sec.4.Income tax settlement claims; requirements; procedure;
approval or denial of claim
A.A Native American veteran or, if the veteran is
deceased, the veteran's surviving spouse, personal representative, executor or
other official representative of the estate, as designated pursuant to
applicable state or tribal law or tradition, may file a claim for a settlement
payment for any period of active duty in the armed forces of the United States
during which the veteran:
1.Was an enrolled member of a Native American tribe.
2.Maintained a domicile within the boundaries of
the veteran's reservation or the reservation of the veteran's spouse or within
the boundaries of lands held in trust by the United States for the benefit of
the veteran, the veteran's spouse or the tribe of the veteran or spouse.
3.Had Arizona state income tax withheld from his or
her active duty military pay and the amount withheld:
(a)Has not already been refunded to the veteran or
the deceased veteran's estate.
(b)Cannot be claimed as a refund by filing a state
income tax return because the period for filing a claim for refund has lapsed
under the applicable statute of limitations.
B.The claim for a settlement payment must include
evidence of the veteran's eligibility for and the amount of the claim as
follows:
1.The claimant must provide a copy of the veteran's
certificate of release or discharge from active duty (DD Form 214) or other
proof of service provided by the United States department of defense and
approved by the department of veterans' services. If a claimant does not have
a copy of the veteran's DD Form 214 or other proof of service, the claimant may
request that the department of veterans' services request the veteran's DD Form
214 or other proof of service from the United States department of defense.
2.The claimant must provide a statement, signed by
the claimant, that the veteran is or was duly registered on the tribal rolls of
a Native American tribe during the period or periods of the veteran's active
duty in the armed forces.
3.The claimant must provide evidence of domicile
within the boundaries of the veteran's reservation or the reservation of the
veteran's spouse or within the boundaries of lands held in trust by the United
States for the benefit of the veteran, the veteran's spouse or the tribe of the
veteran or spouse during the taxable years the state income tax was withheld
from active duty military pay.If the veteran's address shown on the
veteran's DD Form 214 or other proof of service:
(a)Is on the veteran's tribal land, that evidence
is sufficient for the purposes of this paragraph.
(b)Is not on the veteran's tribal land or if the
veteran has no DDForm 214 and the claimant cannot otherwise establish
that the veteran's domicile was on the veteran's tribal land, the claimant must
provide a signed statement, under penalty of perjury, that the veteran was
domiciled on tribal land during the period or periods the state income tax was
withheld. The statement must include the veteran's address on the tribal land
for each period, and an official designated by the tribe must attest that each
address is on tribal land.
4.The claimant must provide evidence of the amount
of state income tax withheld from active duty military pay by providing copies
of the United States internal revenue service Form W-2 covering active duty
military pay for the year or years during which state personal income tax was
withheld.If the claimant does not have copies of the applicable
Form W2 for one or more of those years, the claimant may request that
the department of revenue obtain the veteran's Form W-2, or other withholding
information in a form approved by the department of revenue, from the United
States department of defense.
5.The claimant must provide a signed statement attesting,
under penalty of perjury, that the veteran has not received a refund of the
state income tax withheld for the years for which the claimant is filing a
claim for a settlement payment.
C.A claim for settlement payment under this act
must be filed by the eligible Native American veteran or, if the veteran is
deceased, by the veteran's surviving spouse, successor or other personal
representative. The following apply if the claim is made for a deceased
veteran:
1.The claimant must include a copy of the veteran's
death certificate or other proof of death.
2.If the veteran's estate exceeds thirty thousand
dollars, only the surviving spouse, personal representative, executor or other
official representative of the estate, as designated pursuant to applicable
state or tribal law or tradition, may file the claim.
3.If the claimant is a successor who is not the
surviving spouse, personal representative, executor or other official
representative of the estate, the claimant must include a dated and notarized
statement, signed under penalty of perjury, that:
(a)The value of the entire probate estate of the
deceased veteran, wherever located, minus liens and encumbrances, does not
exceed thirty thousand dollars.
(b)At least thirty days have elapsed since the
veteran's death.
(c)The successor is entitled to receive the
settlement payment.
4.If the claimant is a personal representative,
executor or other official representative of the estate, the claimant must
include:
(a)A signed, dated and notarized statement that the
claimant has been duly appointed as the personal representative, executor or
other representative of the veteran's estate pursuant to applicable state or
tribal law or tradition.
(b)A copy of the claimant's appointment.
D.A claim for a settlement payment shall be denied
for any amount of withholding tax that can be claimed as a refund by filing a
state income tax return pursuant to title 43, Arizona Revised Statutes. A
state income tax return may be filed by a veteran to claim the refund by the
later of December 31 of the year three years after:
1.The veteran separated from military service.
2.The year in which Arizona withholding tax was
withheld from the veteran's active duty pay.
E.A claim for a settlement payment must be made on
a claim form prescribed by the department of revenue and filed with the
department of veterans' services.
F.The department of veterans' services shall not
accept claims submitted from and after December 31, 2019.
G.Within two hundred ten days after receiving a
complete and correct claim form, the department of veterans' services shall
determine whether the claim meets the requirements of subsection B, paragraphs
1, 2 and 3 of this section, transmit qualifying claim forms to the department
of revenue and notify the claimant of the department's approval or denial. The
failure of the department of veterans' services to respond within two hundred
ten days after receiving a complete and correct claim form is considered to be
a denial.
H.Within two hundred ten days after receiving the
claim form from the department of veterans' services, the department of revenue
shall determine whether the claim meets the requirements of subsection B,
paragraphs 4 and 5 of this section and notify the claimant and the department
of veterans' services of its approval or denial. The failure of the department
of revenue to respond within two hundred ten days after receiving the claim
form is considered to be a denial.
Sec.5.Payment of claims; computation of interest
A.The department of
revenue shall:
1.Pay approved
claims under this act from the Native American veterans' income tax settlement
fund on a first-come, first-served basis until the fund is exhausted or until
there are no further approved claims to pay.
2.Pay approved claims in the same manner as refunds
granted under section 42-1118, Arizona Revised Statutes. Payments made
pursuant to this act are subject to setoff as provided by section 421122,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
B.Settlement payments under this act shall include
interest computed on a daily basis from the date of withholding through the
date the payment warrant is issued at the rate determined under section 6621 of
the internal revenue code, as defined by section 42-1201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, on the date of withholding. The date of withholding is determined as
follows:
1.For withholding that occurred over an entire
calendar year, onetwelfth of the amount withheld during the year is
considered to have been paid on the last day of each calendar month of the
year.
2.For withholding that occurred over a period of
less than an entire calendar year, the amount withheld during the period shall
be divided by the number of full and partial months in the period. The
resulting amount is considered to have been paid on the last day of each
calendar month during the period.
Sec.6.Appeals of agency decisions
Notwithstanding any other administrative proceedings
established by law or by rule, all appealable agency actions, as defined by
section 411092, Arizona Revised Statutes, and contested cases, as
defined by section 411001, Arizona Revised Statutes, shall be governed
by title 41, chapter 6, article 10, Arizona Revised Statutes.
Sec.7.Administrative rules
The director of the department of revenue and the director of
the department of veterans' services shall collaborate in adopting any
additional administrative rules that are considered to be necessary to
administer this act.
Sec.8.Annual reports
The director of the department of revenue shall report the
following information to the senate appropriations and finance committees and
to the house of representatives appropriations and ways and means committees on
or before October 1 in each of years 2017 through 2021:
1.Estimates of the amount of state income tax
withholdings subject to payments under this act.
2.The number of Native American veterans affected
by withholdings subject to payments under this act.
3.Expenditures from the Native American veterans'
income tax settlement fund during the previous fiscal year.
4.Anticipated expenditures from the Native American
veterans' income tax settlement fund during the current fiscal year.
5.Anticipated appropriations to the fund necessary
to meet expected payments in the next fiscal year.
Sec.9.Appropriation
The sum of $1,000,000 is appropriated from the state general
fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the Native American veterans' income tax
settlement fund for the purposes described in section 3 of this act.
Sec.10.Repeal
This act is repealed from and after December 31, 2021.

