







REFERENCE TITLE: housing trust fund; unclaimed property







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2399









Introduced by
Representatives
  Alston, Andrade, Bolding, Cardenas, Clark, Fernandez, Hale, McCune Davis,
  Mendez, Rios: Gabaldn





AN ACT

amending section
44-313, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to unclaimed property.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-313, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-313.Deposit of monies
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section or
section 44314, the department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in the state general fund all monies received pursuant to
this chapter, including the proceeds from the sale of abandoned property
pursuant to section 44312, except that:
1.Fifty-five
percent of the monies shall be deposited in the housing trust fund established
by section 41-3955.Forty percent of the monies deposited pursuant
to this paragraph must used exclusively for the development of eligible and
viable housing in rural areas.
1.2.After the deposit of monies
made pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, the first two
million dollars of the monies shall be deposited each fiscal year in the
seriously mentally ill housing trust fund established by section 413955.01.
2.The second
two million five hundred thousand dollars of the monies shall be deposited in
the housing trust fund established by section 413955.
3.The next twentyfour million five hundred
thousand dollars of the monies shall be deposited each fiscal year in the
department of revenue administrative fund established by section 421116.01.
B.The department shall deposit monies from
unclaimed shares and dividends of any corporation incorporated under the laws
of this state in the permanent state school fund pursuant to article XI,
section 8, Constitution of Arizona.
C.The department shall deposit monies from
unclaimed victim restitution payments in the victim compensation and assistance
fund established by section 412407 for the purpose of establishing,
maintaining and supporting programs that compensate and assist victims of
crime.
D.The department shall retain in a separate trust
fund at least one hundred thousand dollars from which the department shall pay
claims.
E.Before making the deposit, the department shall
record the name and last known address of each person who appears from the
holders' reports to be entitled to the property and the name and last known
address of each insured person or annuitant and beneficiary.The
department shall also record the policy or contract number of each policy or
contract of an insurance company that is listed in the report, the name of the
company and the amount due. The department shall make the record available for
public inspection during reasonable business hours. END_STATUTE

