







REFERENCE TITLE: anatomical gifts; procurement
  organizations; licensure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2307









Introduced by
Representatives
  Cobb, Borrelli: Shope





AN ACT

Amending sections
36414, 36841, 36848 and 36850, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 36, chapter 7, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by
adding sections 36851.01 and 36851.02; amending sections 36852,
36853 and 36860, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
revised uniform anatomical gift act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-414, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-414.Health services licensing fund; exemption
A.The health services licensing fund is established
consisting of monies deposited pursuant to sections 36405, 36851.01, 36882,
36897.01 and 361903.The department of health services
shall administer the fund.
B.Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation.
C.Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions
of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 36-841, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-841.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Adult" means an individual who is at
least eighteen years of age.
2."Agent" means an individual who is
either:
(a)Authorized to make health care decisions on the
principal's behalf pursuant to a health care power of attorney.
(b)Expressly authorized to make an anatomical gift
on the principal's behalf pursuant to any other record signed by the principal.
3."Anatomical gift" means a donation of
all or part of a human body to take effect after the donor's death for the
purpose of transplantation, therapy, research or education.
4."Decedent" means a deceased individual
whose body or part is or may be the source of an anatomical gift. Decedent
includes a stillborn infant and, subject to restrictions imposed by any other
law, a fetus.
5."Disinterested witness" means a witness
other than the spouse, child, parent, sibling, grandchild, grandparent or
guardian of the individual who makes, amends, revokes or refuses to make an
anatomical gift, or another adult who exhibited special care and concern for
the individual. Disinterested witness does not include a person to which an
anatomical gift could pass pursuant to section 36850.
6."Document of gift" means a donor card
or other record that is used
to make an anatomical gift. Document of gift includes a statement or symbol on
a driver license, identification card or donor registry.
7."Donor" means an individual whose body
or part is the subject of an anatomical gift.
8."Donor registry" means a database that
contains records of anatomical gifts.
9."Driver license" means a license or
permit that is issued
pursuant to title 28 to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are
attached to the license or permit.
10."Eye bank" means a person that is
licensed or regulated under
federal or state law or and that is accredited by a nationally
recognized accrediting agency to engage in the recovery, screening, testing,
processing, storage or distribution of human eyes or portions of human eyes.
11."Guardian" means a person who is
appointed by a court to make decisions regarding the support, care, education,
health or welfare of an individual. Guardian does not include a guardian ad
litem.
12."Hospital" means a facility that is
licensed as a hospital under the laws of any state or that is operated as a
hospital by the United States, a state or a subdivision of a state.
13."Identification card" means an a nonoperating identification card license
that is issued by the motor vehicle division of the department of
transportation.
14."Know" means to have actual knowledge.
15."Minor" means an individual who is
under eighteen years of age.
16."Organ procurement organization" means
a person that is licensed under state
law, that is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency and that
is designated by the secretary of the United States department of
health and human services as an organ procurement organization.
17."Parent" means a parent whose parental
rights have not been terminated.
18."Part" means an organ, eye or tissue
of a human being. Part does not include the whole body.
19."Person" means an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability
company, association, joint venture, public corporation, government or
governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality, or any other legal or
commercial entity.
20."Physician" means an individual who is licensed as a physician
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
21."Principal" means a person who is the
subject of a health care power of attorney.
22."Procurement organization" means any of the following that is licensed
pursuant to section 36851.01:
(a)An organ procurement organization.
(b)A tissue bank for the recovery of tissues for transplantation, therapy,
research or education.
(c)An eye bank.
(d)A storage facility that is licensed, accredited or approved under federal law or the laws of any state by a nationally recognized accrediting
agency to engage in the recovery, screening, testing, processing,
storage or distribution of human bodies or parts.
23."Prospective donor" means an
individual who is dead or near death and who has been determined by a
procurement organization to have a part that could be medically suitable for
transplantation, therapy, research or education. Prospective donor does not
include an individual who has made a refusal.
24."Reasonably available" means able to
be contacted by a procurement organization without undue effort and willing and
able to act in a timely manner consistent with existing medical criteria
necessary for the making of an anatomical gift.
25."Recipient" means an individual into
whose body a decedent's part has been or is intended to be transplanted.
26."Record" means information that is
inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other
medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
27."Refusal" means a record created
pursuant to section 36846 that expressly states an intent to bar other
persons from making an anatomical gift of an individual's body or part.
28."Sign", with respect to the present
intent to authenticate or adopt a record, means either:
(a)To execute or adopt a tangible symbol.
(b)To attach to or logically associate with the
record an electronic symbol, sound or process.
29."State" means a state of the United States,
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands or any
territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States.
30."Technician" means an individual who
is determined to be qualified to remove or process parts by an appropriate
organization that is licensed or regulated under federal or state law or is
accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency. Technician includes
an enucleator.
31."Tissue" means all or a portion of the
human body other than blood, an organ or an eye unless the blood, organ or eye
is donated for the purpose of transplantation,
research or education.
32."Tissue bank" means a person that is
licensed or regulated under
federal or state law or and that is accredited as a tissue bank by a
nationally recognized accrediting agency organization to engage in the
recovery, screening, testing, processing, storage or distribution of tissue for transplantation, therapy, research or
education.
33."Transplant hospital" means a hospital
that furnishes organ transplants and other medical and surgical specialty
services required for the care of transplant patients. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 36-848, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-848.Who may make anatomical gift of decedent's body or part
A.Subject to the requirements of subsections B and
C of this section, and unless barred pursuant to section 36846 or 36847,
an anatomical gift for transplantation, therapy, research or education may be
made by any member of the following classes of persons who is reasonably
available, in the order of priority listed:
1.An agent of the decedent at the time of death who
could have made an anatomical gift pursuant to section 36843 immediately
before the decedent's death.
2.The decedent's spouse.
3.The decedent's adult children.
4.The decedent's parents.
5.If the decedent is unmarried, the decedent's
domestic partner, if another person had not assumed financial responsibility
for the decedent.
6.The decedent's adult siblings.
7.The decedent's adult grandchildren.
8.The decedent's grandparents.
9.An adult who exhibited special care and concern
for the decedent.
10.The persons who were acting as the guardians of
the person of the decedent at the time of death.
11.Any other person who has the authority to
dispose of the decedent's body.
B.If there is more than one member of a class that
is listed in subsection A, paragraph 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 of this section
who is entitled to make an anatomical gift, an anatomical gift may be made by a
member of the class unless that member or a person to which the gift may pass
pursuant to section 36850 knows of an objection by another member of the
class. If an objection is known, the gift may be made only by a majority of
the members of the class who are reasonably available.
C.A person may not make an anatomical gift if, at
the time of the decedent's death, a person in a prior class pursuant to
subsection A of this section is reasonably available to make or to object to
the making of an anatomical gift.
D.If the decedent's body is not within the custody
of the county medical examiner, the county health officer may release and
permit the removal of any part from the body in the county health officer's
custody for transplantation, therapy, education or research if the requirements
of section 36860, subsection A, B are met. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 36-850, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-850.Persons who may receive anatomical gifts; purpose of
anatomical gift
A.An anatomical gift may be made to the following
named in the document of gift:
1.An organ procurement organization.
2.A hospital, accredited medical school, dental
school, college, university, or procurement organization or
any other appropriate person, for research or education.
3.Subject to the requirements of subsection B of
this section, an individual designated by the person making the anatomical gift
if the individual is the recipient of the part.
4.An eye bank or a tissue bank.
B.If an anatomical gift to an individual pursuant
to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section cannot be transplanted into the
individual, the part passes pursuant to subsection G
H of this section in the absence of an express contrary
indication by the person making the anatomical gift.
C.If an anatomical gift of one or more specific
parts or of all parts is made in a document of gift that does not name a person
described in subsection A of this section but that identifies the purpose for
which an anatomical gift may be used, the gift passes:
1.To the appropriate eye bank if the part is an eye
and the gift is for the purpose of transplantation or therapy.
2.To the appropriate tissue bank if the part is
tissue and the gift is for the purpose of transplantation or therapy.
3.To the organ procurement organization as
custodian of the organ if the part is an organ and the gift is for the purpose
of transplantation or therapy.
4.To the appropriate procurement organization if
the part is an organ, an eye or tissue and the gift is for the purpose of
research or education.
D.If an
anatomical gift is suitable for transplantation and the procurement
organization is unable or unwilling to recover the tissue, the procurement
organization shall refer the gift and all relevant donation information to
another procurement organization in a manner that ensures the gift is recovered
for transplantation.
D.E.For
the purposes of subsection C of this section, if there is more than one purpose
of an anatomical gift stated in the document of gift but the purposes are not
stated in any priority, the gift must be used for transplantation or therapy,
if suitable. If the gift cannot be used for transplantation or therapy, the
gift may be used for research or education.
E.F.If an
anatomical gift of one or more specific parts is made in a document of gift
that does not name a person described in subsection A of this section and does
not identify the purpose of the gift, the gift may be used only for
transplantation or therapy and the gift passes pursuant to subsection G H of this section.
F.G.If a
document of gift specifies only a general intent to make an anatomical gift by
words such as "donor", "organ donor" or "body
donor", or by a symbol or statement of similar import, the gift may be
used only for transplantation or therapy and the gift passes pursuant to
subsection G H of this section.
G.H.For
the purposes of subsections B, E F and F
G of this section:
1.If the part is an eye, the gift passes to the
appropriate eye bank.
2.If the part is tissue, the gift passes to the
appropriate tissue bank.
3.If the part is an organ, the gift passes to the
organ procurement organization as custodian of the organ.
H.I.An
anatomical gift of an organ for transplantation or therapy, other than an anatomical
gift pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section, passes to the organ
procurement organization as custodian of the organ.
I.J.If an
anatomical gift does not pass pursuant to subsection A, B, C, D, E, F, G, or H or
I of this section or the decedent's body or part is not used for
transplantation, therapy, research or education, custody of the body or part
passes to the person who is under an obligation to dispose of the body or part pursuant
to section 36831.
J.K.A
person may not accept an anatomical gift if the person knows that the gift was
not effectively made pursuant to section 36844 or 36849 or if the
person knows that the decedent made a refusal pursuant to section 36846
that was not revoked. For the purposes of this subsection, if a person knows
that an anatomical gift was made in a document of gift, the person is deemed to
know of any amendment of the gift, revocation of the gift or refusal to make an
anatomical gift in the same document of gift.
K.L.Except
as otherwise provided in subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section, this
article does not affect the allocation of organs for transplantation or
therapy. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 36, chapter 7, article 3, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 36-851.01 and 36851.02,
to read:
START_STATUTE36-851.01.Procurement organizations; licensure; renewal; fees;
penalties
A.A person
may not act as a procurement organization in this state unless the person is
licensed by the department of health services as a procurement organization.
The person shall apply in writing to the director of the department on a form
specified by the director, shall include all information requested in the
application and shall pay the fees prescribed by the director.
B.The
director shall grant a procurement organization license to a person If the
organization either is registered or regulated by the federal government and is
subject to inspection or meets the requirements prescribed in section 36851.02
and the rules adopted by the department.
C.A license
under this section is valid for two years and must be renewed every two years.
A person shall file an application for renewal at least thirty days before the
expiration of the current license.
D.Each
procurement organization applying for licensure or renewal under this section
shall pay all applicable fees as prescribed by the director. All fees
collected pursuant to this section for the licensure and renewal of procurement
organizations shall be deposited in the health services licensing fund
established by section 36414.
E.The
director may sanction, impose civil penalties on or, pursuant to title 41,
chapter 6, article 10, suspend or revoke, in whole or in part, the license of
any procurement organization if any person who is an owner, officer, agent or
employee of the procurement organization is in or continues to be in violation
of this article or the rules of the department of health services adopted
pursuant to this article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-851.02.Procurement organizations; requirements; records
Each procurement organization shall do all of the following:
1.Designate a medical director who is a
physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 and who provides
medical guidance to determine donor eligibility.
2.Employ a
director who holds at least a bachelor's degree in a related science from an
accredited university and who is responsible for all licensed activities of the
organization.
3.Implement
and maintain all of the following:
(a)Standard operating procedures
for all licensed functions of the organization.
(b)A safety awareness and bloodborne
pathogen training program that complies with state and federal law.
(c)a cleaning program that
mitigates potential crosscontamination between donors.
4.Provide a
designated area for tissue recovery that:
(a)Is open to inspection by the
department of health services with or without notice.
(b)Does not operate in a funeral
establishment for the recovery of whole bodies for medical research and
education.
5.Properly
track donors and label tissue by doing both of the following:
(a)Assigning a unique identifying
number to each donor and using this number for all tissue from that donor that
is recovered and distributed.
(b)Affixing labels with the
following information on all nontransplant tissue specimens:
(i)A statement that universal
precautions will be used.
(ii)A statement that the specimen is
not for transplant or clinical use.
(iii)Any condition or limitation
regarding the use of the specimen.
(iv)Contact information for the
procurement organization.
6.Maintain
the following records for ten years after the last date of tissue distribution:
(a)A copy or recorded consent of
the donation authorization.
(b)A copy of the donor's death
certificate and transit permit issued by the state where the death occurred.
(c)A copy of the donor's physical
assessment and risk assessment questionnaire.
(d)A copy of the donor's
serological results, when applicable.
(e)A copy of all documentation
relating to tissue recovery, storage and distribution activities. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
36-852, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-852.Rights and duties of procurement organizations and others
A.When a hospital
refers an individual who is at
or near death to an organ procurement organization, the organization shall make
a reasonable search of the records of any donor registry that it knows exists
for the geographical area in which the individual resides to determine if the
individual has made an anatomical gift.
B.A procurement organization must be allowed reasonable Direct access to all of the information in the records of the
donor registry to determine if an individual who is at or near death is a donor.
C.When a hospital refers an individual who is at or near death to an
organ procurement organization, the organ procurement organization or the
appropriate eye bank or tissue bank may conduct any reasonable examination
necessary to ensure the medical suitability of a part that is or could be the
subject of an anatomical gift for transplantation, therapy, research or
education from a donor or a prospective donor. During the examination period,
measures necessary to ensure the medical suitability of the part may not be
withdrawn unless the hospital or procurement organization knows that the
individual expressed a contrary intent.
D.Unless otherwise prohibited by law, at any time
after a donor's death, the person to which a part passes pursuant to section 36850
may conduct any reasonable examination necessary to ensure the medical
suitability of the body or part for its intended purpose.
E.Unless otherwise prohibited by law, an
examination pursuant to subsection C or D of this section may include an
examination of all medical and dental records of the donor or prospective
donor.
F.On the death of a minor who was a donor or who
had signed a refusal, unless a procurement organization knows the minor is
emancipated, the appropriate procurement organization shall conduct a
reasonable search for the parents of the minor and provide the parents with an
opportunity to revoke or amend the anatomical gift or revoke the refusal.
G.On referral by a hospital pursuant to subsection
A of this section, the appropriate procurement organization must make a
reasonable search for any person listed in section 36848 who has
priority to make an anatomical gift on behalf of a prospective donor. If a
procurement organization receives information that an anatomical gift to any
other person was made, amended or revoked, it the
organization shall promptly advise the other person of all
relevant information.
H.Subject to the requirements of section 36850,
subsection I J and section 36861,
the rights of the person to which a part passes pursuant to section 36-850 are
superior to the rights of all others with respect to the part. The person may
accept or reject an anatomical gift in whole or in part. Subject to the terms
of the document of gift and this article, a person who accepts an anatomical
gift of an entire body may allow embalming, burial or cremation and use of
remains in a funeral service.If the gift is of a part, the person
to which the part passes pursuant to section 36850, on the death of the
donor and before embalming, burial or cremation, shall cause the part to be
removed without unnecessary mutilation.
I.The physician who attends the decedent at death
and the physician who determines the time of the decedent's death may not
participate in the procedures for removing or transplanting a part from the
decedent.
J.A physician or technician may remove a donated
part from the body of a donor that the physician or technician is qualified to
remove. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 36-853, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-853.Coordination of procurement and use
A.Each hospital in this state shall enter into one or more agreements or affiliations
a contract with all procurement organizations in this state that request a contract for the coordination of procurement and use of
anatomical gifts to ensure that all
donation opportunities are recovered.
B.If there has been an anatomical gift, the
institution where the removal of any donated parts occurs shall notify the
funeral director or the person acting in that capacity who first assumes
custody of the body about the removal of the body parts. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 36-860, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-860.County medical examiners; authorization
A.Each
county medical examiner in this state shall enter into a contract with all
procurement organizations in this state that request a contract for the
coordination of procurement and use of anatomical gifts to ensure that all
donation opportunities are recovered.
A. B.The medical
examiner or individual legally delegated that authority may release and permit
the removal of a part from or all of a body within the custody of that official
for transplantation, therapy, research or education pursuant to title 11,
chapter 3, article 12 if the part is the subject of an anatomical gift and:
1.A request has been received from a procurement
organization.
2.The organ procurement organization has made a
reasonable effort, taking into account the useful life of the part, to locate
and examine the decedent's medical records and, if the decedent has not
executed a document of gift or has not refused to make an anatomical gift,
inform persons listed in section 36-848, subsection A, of the person's option to make or object to
making an anatomical gift.
3.The official does not know of a refusal by the
decedent or an objection by a person having priority to act as listed in
section 36-848, subsection A.
4.The removal will be by a physician, surgeon or
trained technician.
5.The removal will be in accordance with accepted
medical standards.
6.The removal will not interfere with any death
investigation.
7.Cosmetic restoration will be done, if
appropriate.
B.C.An
official who releases and permits the removal of a part shall maintain a
permanent record of the name of the decedent, the person making the request,
the date and purpose of the request, the part requested and the person to whom
it was released. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Department of health services; rulemaking exemption
For the purposes of implementing this act, the department of
health services shall adopt rules relating to the licensure of procurement
organizations and enforcement of those provisions. The department is exempt
from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised
Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.

