







REFERENCE TITLE: educational institutions; firearms;
  rights-of-way





State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016




HB 2338









Introduced by
Representatives
  Townsend, Thorpe, Senator Burges: Representatives Borrelli, Campbell,
  Finchem, Lawrence, Leach, Livingston, Lovas, Senators Allen S, Farnsworth D,
  Griffin, Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
13-2911, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to concealed weapons.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2911, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2911.Interference with or disruption of an educational institution;
violation; classification; definitions
A.A person commits interference with or disruption
of an educational institution by doing any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly
interfering with or disrupting the normal operations of an educational
institution by either:
(a)Threatening to cause physical injury to any
employee or student of an educational institution or any person on the property
of an educational institution.
(b)Threatening to cause damage to any educational
institution, the property of any educational institution or the property of any
employee or student of an educational institution.
2.Intentionally or knowingly entering or remaining
on the property of any educational institution for the purpose of interfering
with the lawful use of the property or in any manner as to deny or interfere
with the lawful use of the property by others.
3.Intentionally or knowingly refusing to obey a
lawful order given pursuant to subsection C of this section.
B.To constitute a violation of this section, the
acts that are prohibited by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section are not
required to be directed at a specific individual, a specific educational
institution or any specific property of an educational institution.
C.The chief administrative officer of an
educational institution or an officer or employee designated by the chief
administrative officer to maintain order may order a person to leave the
property of the educational institution if the officer or employee has
reasonable grounds to believe either that:
1.Any person or persons are committing any act that
interferes with or disrupts the lawful use of the property by others at the
educational institution.
2.Any person has entered on the property of an educational
institution for the purpose of committing any act that interferes with or
disrupts the lawful use of the property by others at the educational
institution.
D.The appropriate governing board of every
educational institution shall adopt rules pursuant to title 41, chapter 6 for
the maintenance of public order on all property of any educational institution
under its jurisdiction that is used for educational purposes and shall provide
a program for the enforcement of its rules. The rules shall govern the conduct
of students, faculty and other staff and all members of the public while on the
property of the educational institution. Penalties for violations of the rules
shall be clearly set forth and enforced. Penalties shall include provisions for
the ejection of a violator from the property and, in the case of a student,
faculty member or other staff violator, the violator's suspension or expulsion
or any other appropriate disciplinary action. A governing board shall amend
its rules as necessary to ensure the maintenance of public order. Any deadly
weapon, dangerous instrument or explosive that is used, displayed or possessed
by a person in violation of a rule adopted pursuant to this subsection shall be
forfeited and sold, destroyed
or otherwise disposed of pursuant to section
13-3105 and chapter 39 of this title. This subsection does not
do either of the following:
1.Preclude school
districts from conducting approved gun safety programs on school campuses.
2.Apply to private
universities, colleges, high schools or common schools or other private
educational institutions.
E.An educational institution is not eligible to
receive any state aid or assistance unless rules are adopted in accordance with
this section.
F.This section does not prevent or limit the
authority of the governing board of any educational institution to discharge
any employee or expel, suspend or otherwise punish any student for any
violation of its rules, even though the violation is unlawful under this
chapter or is otherwise an offense.
G.This section may be enforced by any peace officer
in this state wherever and whenever a violation occurs.
H.Restitution under sections 8341, 8345
and 13603 applies to any financial loss that is suffered by a person or
educational institution as a result of a violation of this section.
I.NOtwithstanding
section 15-341 and subsection D of this section, the governing board of an
educational institution may not adopt or enforce any policy or rule that
prohibits a person from lawfully possessing or carrying in the person's means
of transportation a concealed weapon on a public right-of-way.
I.J.Interference with
or disruption of an educational institution pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
1 of this section is a class 6 felony. Interference with or disruption of an
educational institution pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 or 3 of this
section is a class 1 misdemeanor. 
J.K.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Educational institution" means, except
as otherwise provided, any university, college, community college, high school
or common school in this state.
2."Governing board" means the body,
whether appointed or elected, that has responsibility for the maintenance and
government of an educational institution.
3."Interference with or disruption of"
includes any act that might reasonably lead to the evacuation or closure of any
property of the educational institution or the postponement, cancellation or
suspension of any class or other school activity. For the purposes of this
paragraph, an actual evacuation, closure, postponement, cancellation or
suspension is not required for the act to be considered an interference or
disruption.
4."Property of an educational
institution" means all land, buildings and other facilities that are
owned, operated or controlled by the governing board of an educational
institution and that are devoted to educational purposes.
5."Public
rightofway" means any highway, street, road, thoroughfare,
path, alley or other rightofway that is publicly accessible and
that is established by a governmental entity.END_STATUTE

