








REFERENCE TITLE: automated traffic safety devices







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2366









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe, Cardenas, Cobb: Barton, Boyer, Carter, Finchem, Leach, Mesnard,
  Otondo, Townsend





AN ACT

Amending sections
28-601, 28-627 and 28-857.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing title 28,
chapter 3, article 21, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 28, chapter 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new article 21; amending section 28-1601,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 281602, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to traffic violations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section.1.Section 28-601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Commercial motor vehicle" means a
motor vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed, used or maintained
to transport passengers or property in the furtherance of a commercial
enterprise, that is a commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201
and that is not exempt from gross weight fees as prescribed in section 285432,
subsection B.
2."Controlled access highway" means a
highway, street or roadway to or from which owners or occupants of abutting
lands and other persons have no legal right of access except at such points
only and in the manner determined by the public authority that has jurisdiction
over the highway, street or roadway.
3."Crosswalk" means:
(a)That part of a roadway at an intersection
included within the prolongations or connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks
on opposite sides of the highway measured from the curbs or, in absence of
curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway.
(b)Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere that is distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or
other markings on the surface.
4."Escort vehicle" means a vehicle that
is required pursuant to rules adopted by the department to escort motor
vehicles or combinations of vehicles that require issuance of a permit pursuant
to article 18 or 19 of this chapter for operation on the highways of this
state.
5."Explosives" means any chemical
compound, mixture or device that is commonly used or intended for the purpose
of producing an explosion and that is defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations
part 173.
6."Flammable liquid" means any liquid
that has a flash point of less than one hundred degrees Fahrenheit and that is
defined in 49 Code of Federal Regulations section 173.120.
7."Gross weight" means the weight of a
vehicle without a load plus the weight of any load on the vehicle.
8."Intersection" means the area embraced
within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if none,
the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join one
another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within which
vehicles traveling on different highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.If a highway includes two roadways thirty or more feet
apart, each crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway is a separate intersection.If the intersecting highway also
includes two roadways thirty or more feet apart, each crossing of two roadways
of the highways is a separate intersection.
9."License" means any license, temporary
instruction permit or temporary license issued under the laws of this state or
any other state that pertain to the licensing of persons to operate motor
vehicles.
10."Low emission and energy efficient
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been certified by the United States
environmental protection agency administrator in accordance with 23 United
States Code section 166 or that is part of a federally approved pilot program.
11."Motorized wheelchair" means any selfpropelled
wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
12."Official traffic control device"
means any sign, signal, marking or device that is not inconsistent with this
chapter and that is placed or erected by authority of a public body or official
having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
13."Park", if prohibited, means the
standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
14."Photo
enforcement system" means a device substantially consisting of a radar
unit or sensor linked to a camera or other recording device that produces one
or more photographs, microphotographs, videotapes or digital or other recorded
images of a vehicle's license plate for the purpose of identifying violators of
articles 3 and 6 of this chapter.
15.14."Pneumatic
tire" means a tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
16.15."Pole
trailer" means a vehicle that is all of the following:
(a)Without motive
power.
(b)Designed to be
drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach
or pole or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle.
(c)Used ordinarily for transporting long or
irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or structural members capable
generally of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
17.16."Police
officer" means an officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make
arrests for violations of traffic rules or other offenses.
18.17."Private
road or driveway" means a way or place that is in private ownership and
that is used for vehicular travel by the owner and those persons who have
express or implied permission from the owner but not by other persons.
19.18."Railroad"
means a carrier of persons or property on cars operated on stationary rails.
20.19."Railroad
sign or signal" means a sign, signal or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the presence
of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
21.20."Railroad
train" means a steam engine or any electric or other motor that is with or
without cars coupled to the steam engine or electric or other motor and that is
operated on rails.
22.21."Roadway"
means that portion of a highway that is improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, roadway refers to any such roadway separately but
not to all such roadways collectively.
23.22."Safety
zone" means the area or space that is both:
(a)Officially set
apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
(b)Protected or
either marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all
times while set apart as a safety zone.
24.23."Sidewalk"
means that portion of a street that is between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines and that is intended for the
use of pedestrians.
25.24."Stop",
if required, means complete cessation from movement.
26.25."Stop,
stopping or standing", if prohibited, means any stopping or standing of an
occupied or unoccupied vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
27.26."Through
highway" means a highway or portion of a highway at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing and when stop signs are erected as provided in this
chapter.
28.27."Traffic"
means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using a highway for purposes of travel.
29.28."Traffic
control signal" means a device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
30.29."Truck"
means a motor vehicle that is designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-627, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-627.Powers of local authorities
A.This chapter and chapters 4 and 5 of this title
do not prohibit a local authority, with respect to streets and highways under
its jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, from:
1.Regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.
2.Regulating traffic by means of police officers,
traffic control signals or volunteer posse organization members authorized by
the sheriff under section 11441 for the purpose of directing traffic
only.
3.Regulating or prohibiting processions or
assemblages on the highways.
4.Designating particular highways as oneway
highways and requiring that all vehicles on oneway highways be moved in
one specific direction.
5.Regulating the speed of vehicles in public parks.
6.Designating any highway as a through highway and
requiring that all vehicles stop before entering or crossing the highway or
designating any intersection as a stop intersection and requiring all vehicles
to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection.
7.Restricting the use of highways as authorized in
section 281106.
8.Regulating the operation of bicycles and
requiring the registration and licensing of bicycles, including the requirement
of a registration fee.
9.Regulating or prohibiting the turning of vehicles
or specified types of vehicles at intersections.
10.Altering the prima facie speed limits as
authorized by this chapter.
11.Designating routes over streets and highways for
vehicles not exceeding one hundred two inches in width, exclusive of safety
equipment.
12.Adopting other traffic regulations that are
specifically authorized by this chapter or chapter 4 or 5 of this title.
13.Designating routes on certain streets and
highways for the purpose of allowing offhighway vehicle operators to
gain access to or from a designated offhighway recreation facility as
defined in section 281171, offhighway vehicle trail as defined in
section 281171 or offhighway vehicle special event as defined in
section 281171.
B.A local authority shall not erect or maintain a
stop sign or traffic control signal at any location that requires the traffic
on any state highway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the director.
C.An ordinance or regulation enacted under
subsection A, paragraph 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 or 10 of this section is not effective
until signs giving notice of the local traffic regulations are posted on or at
the entrances to the highway or part of the highway affected as is most
appropriate.
D.The definition of motor vehicle prescribed in
section 28101 does not prevent a local authority from adopting
ordinances that regulate or prohibit the operation of motorized skateboards,
except that a local authority shall not adopt an ordinance that requires
registration and licensing of motorized skateboards.For the
purposes of this subsection, "motorized skateboard" means a selfpropelled
device that has a motor, a deck on which a person may ride and at least two
tandem wheels in contact with the ground.
E.In addition to the appointment of peace officers,
a local authority may provide by ordinance for the appointment of:
1.Unarmed police aides or municipally approved
private contractors who are employed or contracted by the police department and
who are empowered to commence an action or proceeding before a court or judge
for a violation of the local authority's ordinances regulating the standing or
parking of vehicles.A municipally approved private contractor shall
not include a relative of an employee or of an elected official of the
municipality. The authority of the unarmed police aide or municipally approved
private contractor as authorized in this section is limited to the enforcement
of the ordinances of local authorities regulating the standing or parking of
vehicles. Pursuant to rules established by the supreme court, an unarmed
police aide appointed pursuant to this paragraph may serve any process
originating out of a municipal court in the municipality in which the unarmed
police aide is employed. Service of process under this paragraph shall only be
made during the hours the municipal court is open for the transaction of
business and only on court premises.This paragraph does not grant
to unarmed police aides or municipally approved private contractors other
powers or benefits to which peace officers of this state are entitled.
2.Traffic investigators who may:
(a)Investigate traffic accidents within the
jurisdiction of the local authority.
(b)Commence an action or proceeding before a court
or judge for any violation of a state statute or local ordinance relating to
traffic, if the violation is related to a traffic accident within the
jurisdiction of the local authority.
(c)Pursuant to rules established by the supreme
court, serve any process originating out of a municipal court in the
municipality in which the traffic investigator is employed. Service of process
under paragraph 1 of this subsection shall only be made during the hours the
municipal court is open for the transaction of business and only on court
premises.
F.A traffic investigator appointed pursuant to this
section shall:
1.Be unarmed at all times during the course of the
traffic investigator's duties.
2.Be an employee of the appointing local authority.
3.File written reports as required pursuant to
section 28667.
G.Notwithstanding subsection E of this section, an
unarmed police aide, a municipally approved private contractor or a traffic
investigator shall not serve any process resulting from a citation issued for a
violation of article 3 or 6 of this chapter or of a city or town ordinance for
excessive speed or failure to obey a traffic control device that is obtained
using a photo enforcement system an automated traffic safety device as
defined in section 28-1201.
H.This section does not grant other powers or
benefits to traffic investigators to which peace officers of this state are
entitled.
I.Pursuant to section 281092, a local
authority shall provide reasonable access to and from terminals and service
facilities on highways under its jurisdiction. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
28-857.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-857.01.Overtaking and passing school bus; report by school bus
operator; notification letter
A.The operator of a school bus who observes a
violation of section 28857, subsection A may prepare a signed written
report that indicates that a violation occurred.The report shall
include:
1.The date, time and approximate location of the
violation.
2.The number and state of issuance of the license
plate on the vehicle involved in the violation.
3.Identification of the vehicle as an automobile, a
station wagon, a truck, a bus, a motorcycle or any other type of vehicle.
4.The color of the vehicle involved in the
violation.
B.Within two days after the violation occurs,
excluding weekends and holidays, the school bus operator shall send a copy of
the report to the director.On receiving the report, the director
shall promptly mail a notification letter to the last known registered owner of
the vehicle.The letter shall include:
1.A notification containing the information
included in the bus operator's report and stating that a vehicle registered in
the vehicle owner's name was observed passing a school bus loading and
unloading children.
2.A complete explanation of the provisions of
section 28857.
3.An explanation that the notification letter is
not a police citation but is an effort to call attention to the seriousness of
the incident.
C.Notwithstanding
any other law, a school district may install and operate an automated traffic
safety device as defined in section 28-1201 that is affixed on a school bus and
that is capable of detecting violations of section 28-857, subsection A. A
school district may enter into an agreement with a private third party for the
installation, operation, administration and maintenance of automated traffic
safety devices. A school district may contract for the operation of an
automated traffic safety device through an intergovernmental agreement with a
governing body or a law enforcement agency. A school district shall share
images obtained pursuant to this subsection with a governing body or a law
enforcement agency. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Title 28, chapter 3,
article 21, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.5.Title 28, chapter 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding a new article 21, to read:
ARTICLE 21.AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SAFETY DEVICES
START_STATUTE28-1201.Definitions
in this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Automated
traffic safety device" means a device that is capable of detecting
violations of article 3 or 6 of this chapter or section 28-857 and that both:
(a)Produces one or more images of
the rear of a motor vehicle, including an image of the motor Vehicle's rear license plate.
(b)indicates the date,
time and Location of the violation on the produced images.
2."Governing
body" means a state agency or local authority that is responsible for
enforcing traffic violations within its jurisdiction.
3."Owner"
Means any of the following:
(a)A person in whose name
a motor vehicle is registered at the time a violation that is detected by an
automated traffic safety device occurs.
(b)if a motor vehicle
that is registered by a rental or leasing company is being operated by a person
under a rental or lease agreement, The person to whom the motor vehicle is
rented or leased at the time a violation that is detected by an automated
traffic safety device occurs.
(c)If a motor vehicle
displays a dealer license plate, The person to whom the motor vehicle is
assigned for use at the time a violation that is detected by an automated
traffic safety device occurs. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1202.Operation
A.A governing body may:
1.authorize
the use of an automated traffic safety device and may appoint one or more
persons to serve as an Agent to administer the use of automated traffic safety
devices.
2.enter
into an agreement with a private third party for the installation, Operation,
administration, maintenance and notice processing of automated traffic safety
devices and to assemble and transmit the recorded images captured by an
automated traffic safety device to a governing body or a law enforcement agency
or its designated agent for review. this paragraph does not authorize the
agent to participate in private investigative services.
3.contract
for the operation of an automated traffic safety device through an Intergovernmental
agreement with another governing body or a law enforcement Agency that is
responsible for enforcing traffic violations within its jurisdiction.
b.If
a governing body uses an automated traffic safety device, all of the following
apply:
1.The
owner of a motor vehicle commits a violation if the automated Traffic safety
device produces one or more recorded images Of a motor vehicle in violation of
article 3 or 6 of this chapter or section 28-857.
2.An
Automated traffic safety device may take pictures only of the motor vehicle and
motor Vehicle license plate and only while a violation is occurring. The image
may not Intentionally reveal the face of the operator or of passengers in the
vehicle. If a law enforcement officer, governing body or agent has made a
reasonable effort to comply with this paragraph, a notice of violation issued
pursuant to this article may not be dismissed only because an image reveals the
face of the operator of or passengers in the vehicle.
3.A
local law enforcement officer or governing body or agent Shall review and
approve the recorded images before the notice of violation described in section
28-1204 is mailed to the owner of the motor vehicle.
4.Civil
penalties shall be assessed pursuant to section 281203. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1203.Violation; civil penalties; fees; distribution
A.For a
violation of
article 3 or 6 of this chapter or section 28-857 that is detected by an automated
traffic safety device, the violator is subject to a civil penalty as follows:
1.except
as provided in paragraph 2 of this subsection, For a violation of article 3 or
6 of this chapter, a civil penalty not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars.
2.For
a violation of section 28-701.02, a civil penalty of at least two Hundred
dollars.
3.For
a violation of section 28-857:
(a)For a first violation,
A civil penalty not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars.
(b)For a second violation
within a twelvemonth period, a civil penalty of at least five hundred
dollars.
(c)For a third or
subsequent violation within a twelvemonth period, a civil penalty of at
least seven hundred fifty dollars.
B.A
court may increase the civil penalty minimums and maximums prescribed by
subsection A of this section in an amount not to exceed the percent of change
in the average consumer price index as published by the United States
department of labor, bureau of labor statistics between that figure for the
latest calendar year and the calendar year in which the last civil penalty
increase occurred.
C.The
violator shall pay the civil penalty within either:
1.Thirty
days after the issuance date of the notice of violation, unless a defense
described in section 28-1205 applies.
2.Sixty
Days after the issuance date of the notice of violation, if a notice of
violation is Required to be mailed or electronically transferred pursuant to
section 28-1205, subsection C, paragraph 3.
D.the
payment of civil penalties and associated costs and fees may be made
electronically.
E.A
governing body Shall impose fees associated with the electronic processing of
the payment Of a civil penalty imposed pursuant to this section.
F.Notwithstanding
section 28-1554, civil penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be
used to defray the costs of the installation, operation and maintenance of
automated traffic safety devices and the remaining monies shall be distributed
As follows:
1.Fifty
percent shall be paid to the department of education for distribution to
district and charter schools for school safety and educational purposes.
2.Fifty
percent shall be either:
(a)Retained by the local
authority If the governing body is a local authority.
(b)Deposited in the state
general fund If the governing body is a state agency. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1204.Notice of violation
A.after an
automated traffic safety device detects a violation pursuant to this article, a governing body shall mail to the
owner of the Motor vehicle involved in the violation a notice of violation by
First class mail. The notice must be postmarked within thirty days after the
governing body obtains the name and Address of the owner of the motor vehicle
and within one hundred twenty Days after the date of the violation. If there
is more than one owner, the governing body may mail the notice to the first
person listed on the vehicle registration or title or jointly to all owners.
B.The
notice shall include the following information:
1.The
name and address of the person alleged to be responsible for the violation.
2.The
license plate number of the motor vehicle.
3.The
specific law that was violated.
4.The
location and the date and time of the violation.
5.The
images of the motor vehicle and the license plate that were captured by the
Automated traffic safety device and information on how to view the images
through electronic Means.
6.A
statement or electronically generated affirmation of the law enforcement
Officer or designated governing body employee or agent who reviewed the
Recorded images and determined that the motor vehicle Committed the violation.
7.A
statement that recorded images from an automated traffic safety device are
prima facie evidence of a violation of Article 3 or 6 of this chapter or
section 28-857.
8.The
amount of the civil penalty imposed for the violation and the Time, place and
manner for payment of the civil penalty, including the date by which the person
Must do one of the following:
(a)Pay the civil penalty
if the person does Not choose to contest the violation.
(b)Notify the governing
body that the notice of violation is being contested.The person
must request a hearing to contest the notice of Violation within thirty days
after the issuance date of the Notice of violation.
(c)Notify the governing
body that responsibility is being transferred to Another person. 
9.The
procedure under which the notice of violation may be contested or the Procedure
and conditions under which responsibility for payment of the civil penalty may
Be transferred to another person who was operating the motor vehicle at the
time of the Violation.
10.A
statement that if the owner who is responsible for the violation was not the
operator of the motor Vehicle at the time of the violation, the owner may
maintain an action for Indemnification against the operator of the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation.
11.A
statement that failure to timely pay, contest or transfer responsibility to
Another person constitutes an admission that the person is responsible, and
that failure To pay a civil penalty for which the person is determined to be
responsible shall result in the Inability to obtain or renew the registration
of the motor vehicle involved or to obtain or Transfer its title, or for the
person held to be responsible to obtain or renew a Driver license, permit or
nonresident driving privilege unless the civil penalty is paid. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1205.Presumption; defenses
A.an owner is presumed to have
committed a violation of article 3 or 6 of this chapter or section 28857
if the owner's motor vehicle is visible in an image that is captured by an
automated traffic safety device.
B.In
a proceeding for a violation of article 3 or 6 of this chapter or section
28-857 that is detected by an automated traffic safety device, the following
defenses apply:
1.The
traffic control signal was not operating properly and the nonoperation is
observable on the recorded image.
2.The
operator of the motor vehicle was complying with an order or direction of a law
enforcement Officer and the order or direction is observable on the recorded
image.
3.The
operator of the motor vehicle was yielding the right-of-way to an authorized
emergency vehicle that is observable on the recorded image.
4.The
operator of the motor vehicle was participating in a funeral procession that is
Observable on the recorded image.
5.A
traffic citation was issued to the operator of the motor vehicle for the Same
violation by a law enforcement officer who was present at the scene.
6.In
the discretion of the law enforcement officer or the governing body or agent
reviewing the recorded image before issuance of a notice of violation, it was
not Possible for the operator of the motor vehicle to safely avoid committing
the violation due to Inclement weather conditions.
7.The
violation occurred after the motor vehicle or License plate was stolen, the motor vehicle theft
was reported to the appropriate law enforcement agency and a copy of the theft Report is
produced and authenticated.
8.The
violation occurred when the motor vehicle was in the care, custody Or control
of a person other than the owner or an employee of the owner or under a written
agreement for the rental or lease of the motor Vehicle for a period of not more
than sixty days.
C.the
following provisions apply to a defense under subsection B, paragraph 8 of this
section:
1.The
owner must provide to the governing body a sworn affidavit that is signed under
penalty of perjury and that contains the name and address of the person who had
the care, custody or control of The motor vehicle, including an employee of the
owner, or who was renting or Leasing the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation.
2.it
is a rebuttable presumption that the Person having the care, custody or control
of the motor vehicle at the time of the Violation was the operator of the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation.
3.The
governing body shall mail or electronically Transfer a notice of violation to
the person identified as having the care, custody Or control of the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation. the notice of violation shall contain
all of the following information:
(a)The information prescribed by section
28-1204.
(b)A statement that the person receiving the
notice of violation was identified by the owner Of the motor vehicle as the
person having the care, custody or control of the motor Vehicle at the time of
the violation.
(c)A statement that the person may offer a
defense as described in this section.
(d)A statement that if the person denies
having the care, custody or control of the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation, the responsibility reverts to the owner of the motor vehicle.
4.a
person who receives a notice of violation prescribed by paragraph 3 of this
subsection is responsible for payment of the civil penalty unless the person
either:
(a)Timely returns a signed statement on a
form provided with the notice of violation that the person was not the operator
and declines responsibility.
(b)Admits to being the operator but denies
committing a violation, in which case The person may offer a defense that is
listed in subsection B of this section.
5.If
the person identified by the owner as having the Care, custody or control of
the motor vehicle denies having the care, custody or Control of the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation, the responsibility reverts to The owner
of the motor vehicle.
6.The
owner may not attempt to transfer responsibility more than one time Using the
defense prescribed by subsection B, paragraph 8 of this section.
d.If
a person other than the owner denies responsibility, the governing body shall
issue a new notice of violation to the owner Stating that the other person
denied responsibility and giving the owner the option Of paying the civil
penalty or contesting the notice of violation within twenty days after the
mailing of the new notice of violation.
e.if the owner who is responsible for
the violation was not the operator of the motor Vehicle at the time of the
violation, the owner may maintain an action for Indemnification against the operator
of the motor vehicle at the time of the violation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1206.Final notice of unpaid civil penalty
If a violation detected by an automated traffic
safety device is not contested and the civil penalty is not Paid, the governing
body shall send to the person who is the registered Owner of the motor vehicle
a final notice of the unpaid civil penalty, unless there is an adjudication
that no violation occurred or There is a lawful determination that no civil
penalty shall be imposed.The FINAL Notice shall inform the
registered owner of the following:
1.The
governing body will notify the department if the assessed penalty is not paid
within Thirty days after the final notice was mailed.
2.The
notice will result in the nonrenewal of the registration of the Motor vehicle,
cause the title of the motor vehicle involved in the violation to not be
Transferred and cause the person held responsible for the violation to be
Ineligible to obtain or renew a driver license or permit or nonresident driving
privilege until the civil penalty is paid. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1207.Unpaid civil penalties; notice to department; notice to
motor vehicle owner 
A.not sooner than thirty days after a
final Notice is mailed as prescribed in section 28-1206, The governing body
shall notify the department of the following:
1.Any
information known or available to the governing body Concerning the license
plate number and year of registration and the name of the Owner of the motor
vehicle.
2.The
date on which the violation occurred.
3.The
date on which the final notice prescribed in section 281206 was mailed.
B.If
the department receives a notice pursuant to this section, the department may
not renew The registration of the motor vehicle or transfer the title of the
motor vehicle involved in the Violation.The department shall
promptly suspend the responsible person's driver license or permit, application
or privilege to apply for a driver license or permit or the nonresident driving
privilege until the civil penalty is paid.
C.The
department shall mail a Notice to the person in whose name the motor vehicle is
registered that informs the person that all of the following apply until the
person pays the civil penalty that is due:
1.The
registration of the motor vehicle involved in the violation will not be
renewed.
2.The
title of the motor vehicle involved in the violation will not be transferred.
3.The
person held responsible for the violation may not obtain Or renew a driving
privilege. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1208.Arrest or incarceration prohibited
A person may not be
arrested or incarcerated for not paying a civil penalty that is imposed
pursuant to this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1209.Recorded images
A.Recorded images, documents and data that are produced
by an automated traffic Safety device are not public records.
B.The
recorded images that are produced by an automated traffic safety device must be
Destroyed within ninety days after the final disposition of the case to which
they pertain, Including any appeals, unless otherwise ordered by a court of
competent Jurisdiction.
C.a
governing body shall destroy All recorded images that are produced by an
automated traffic safety device and that do not identify a violation within
thirty days after the date the image was recorded, unless Otherwise ordered by
a court of competent jurisdiction. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1210.Exemption; first responders
A motor vehicle in use by a first responder in the line of
duty is exempt from any enforcement action or measure resulting from an
automated traffic safety device. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1211.Warning signs; device placement
A.Before enforcing violations of
article 3 or 6 of this chapter that are detected by an automated traffic safety
device, the governing body Shall install an advanced warning sign within five
hundred feet along the approach of any Roadway at which a fixed automated
traffic safety device is located. The advanced Warning sign shall notify
motorists of the existence of the automated traffic Safety device and shall
comply with the department's manual on Uniform traffic control devices.
B.For
automated traffic safety devices located at intersection Traffic control
signals, all yellow light signal times shall meet standards contained In the
most recent edition of the department's manual on uniform Traffic control
devices.
C.An
automated traffic safety device that is used to detect violations of article 3
or 6 of this chapter may not be placed on a Street or highway within six
hundred feet of a posted speed limit change except that an automated traffic
safety device may be placed in an area around a school Crossing that is
delineated by signs as prescribed by section 28-797, subsection d. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-1212.Suspension or revocation of license
Notwithstanding
any other law, if a person is found responsible for a violation of Article 3 or
6 of this chapter or section 28-857 and the violation is detected by an
Automated traffic safety device, the department may not consider the violation
for the purpose of determining whether the person's driver license should be
suspended or revoked. A court may transmit abstracts of records of these
violations to the department only for commercial driver license holders. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 28-1601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1601.Failure to pay civil penalty; suspension of privilege to
drive; collection procedure
A.A person shall pay all civil penalties within
thirty days from entry of judgment, except that if payment within thirty days
will place an undue economic burden on a person, the court may extend the time
for payment or may provide for installment payments.If the civil
penalty is not paid or an installment payment is not made when due, the court
may declare the entire civil penalty due and, if so, the court shall notify the
department and the department shall promptly suspend the driver license or
permit of the driver, the person's application or privilege to apply for a
driver license or permit or the privilege of a nonresident to drive a motor vehicle
in this state, until the civil penalty is paid.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, if
a civil penalty is paid on entry of judgment, the court may reduce the civil
penalty by up to five per cent
percent of the penalty
imposed.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
court shall not initiate collection procedures on an unpaid civil penalty,
notify the department to suspend a person's driver license, permit or privilege
to drive a motor vehicle in this state or notify the department to refuse to
renew a vehicle registration for an unpaid civil traffic violation if all of
the following apply:
1.The unpaid civil penalty is for a traffic
violation for which the final disposition occurs more than thirtysix
months before the court initiates collection proceedings.
2.The court does not have a paper or electronic
record dated within thirtysix months after the traffic violation occurs
indicating that the responsible person was notified that the civil penalty is
unpaid and due.
3.The court has not notified the department to
suspend the responsible person's driver license or permit or privilege to drive
a motor vehicle in this state.
4.The court has not notified either the responsible
person or the department about the court's request to the department to refuse
to renew the responsible person's vehicle registration pursuant to article 5 of
this chapter.
5.The court does not have a record of extending the
time for payment of the civil penalty or providing for installment payments.
D.If the court is prohibited from initiating
collection procedures on an unpaid civil penalty, from notifying the department
to suspend a person's driver license, permit or privilege to drive a motor
vehicle in this state or from notifying the department to refuse to renew a
vehicle registration, pursuant to subsection C of this section, the court shall
notify the department and the department shall remove the violation from the
person's driving record.
E.With the approval of the supreme court, the presiding
judge of any court may periodically conduct a program aimed at reducing the
amount of outstanding fines, penalties and
surcharges.Notwithstanding any other law, except a fine ordered as
a result of a violation of section 281381 or 281382, the program
may include authorizing up to a fifty per
cent percent reduction
in the total amount of a court ordered fine, penalty or surcharge that is due
and that is delinquent for at least twelve months followed by an increased
enforcement effort for a fine, penalty or surcharge that is not
paid.The supreme court shall adopt rules of procedure for the
programs.
F.If penalties are reduced pursuant to subsection E
of this section, associated surcharges and assessments shall be reduced in
proportion to the reduction.This subsection does not apply to
section 12116.
G.If a person presents reasonable evidence to the
court that a civil penalty and any other fees, fines or surcharges required by
the court have been paid, the court shall cease its collection activities for
that civil penalty and order the department to immediately rescind its actions
related to the court's order or request to suspend the person's driver license,
permit or privilege to drive pursuant to subsection A of this section or, to refuse to renew the person's vehicle
registration pursuant to article 5 of this chapter or to refuse to transfer the vehicle title. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Repeal
Section 28-1602,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.

