







REFERENCE TITLE: superior court records; technical
  correction







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2379









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending section
12-290, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the clerk of the superior court.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 12-290, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-290.Peace officer identifying information; superior court
records; confidentiality; definitions
A.A peace officer who believes that the life or
safety of the officer or another person is in danger and that restricting
access to the officer's personal identifying information will serve to reduce
the danger may request that the general public be prohibited from accessing
superior court records maintained by the clerk of the superior court that contain
the peace officer's personal identifying information.
B.An eligible
person A peace officer may
request this action by filing an affidavit in each case in the superior court
of the county that contains the personal identifying information requesting
that the court order the general public be prohibited from accessing records
that contain the personal identifying information. Each affidavit shall
contain the officer's personal identifying information and any other
information required by the court.
C.To prevent multiple filings, an eligible person a peace officer shall deliver the affidavit to
the peace officer's commanding officer, or that person's designee, who shall
file the affidavits at one time. In the absence of an affidavit that contains
a request for immediate action and that is supported by facts justifying an
earlier presentation, the commanding officer, or that person's the commanding officer's designee, shall not
file affidavits more often than quarterly.
D.If the court finds that the life or safety of the
officer or another person is in danger and that restricting access to records
that contain the officer's personal identifying information will serve to
reduce the danger the court shall grant the petition and restrict access as
necessary.
E.The supreme court shall promulgate adopt rules to implement this section.
F.For the purposes of this section:
1."Peace officer" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 1215.
2."Personal identifying information"
means the officer's residential address, telephone number and contact
information as stated in the records. END_STATUTE

