







REFERENCE TITLE: Indian tribes; TPT revenues







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2319









Introduced by
Representatives
  Hale, Andrade, Benally, Cardenas, Fernandez, Rios, Saldate, Velasquez,
  Wheeler: Alston, Bolding, Clark, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Larkin, McCune Davis,
  Mendez, Meyer, Senator Bradley





AN ACT

amending sections
425029, 425031.01 and 426010, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to transaction privilege tax distribution.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5029, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5029.Remission and distribution of monies; definition
A.The department shall
deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, all revenues
collected under this article and articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter pursuant
to section 421116, separately accounting for:
1.Payments of estimated
tax under section 425014, subsection D.
2.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425070.
3.Revenues collected
under this article and article 5 of this chapter from and after June 30, 2000
from sources located on Indian reservations in this state.
4.Revenues collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D.
B.The department shall
credit payments of estimated tax to an estimated tax clearing account and each
month shall transfer all monies in the estimated tax clearing account to a fund
designated as the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account.
The department shall credit all other payments to the transaction privilege and
severance tax clearing account, separately accounting for the monies designated
as distribution base under sections 425010, 425164, 425205
and 425353.Each month the department shall report to the
state treasurer the amount of monies collected pursuant to this article and
articles 4, 5 and 8 of this chapter.
C.On notification by
the department, the state treasurer shall distribute the monies deposited in
the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account in the manner
prescribed by this section and by sections 425164, 425205 and 425353,
after deducting warrants drawn against the account pursuant to sections 421118
and 421254.
D.Of the monies
designated as distribution base, and subject to the requirements of section 425041,
the department shall:
1.Pay twentyfive
percent to the various incorporated municipalities in this state in proportion
to their population to be used by the municipalities for any municipal purpose.
2.Pay 38.08 percent to
the counties in this state by averaging the following proportions:
(a)The proportion that
the population of each county bears to the total state population.
(b)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base
monies collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B,
section 425205, subsection B and section 425353 throughout the
state for the calendar month.
3.Pay an additional
2.43 percent to the counties in this state as follows:
(a)Average the
following proportions:
(i)The proportion that
the assessed valuation used to determine secondary property taxes of each
county, after deducting that part of the assessed valuation that is exempt from
taxation at the beginning of the month for which the amount is to be paid,
bears to the total assessed valuations used to determine secondary property
taxes of all the counties after deducting that portion of the assessed
valuations that is exempt from taxation at the beginning of the month for which
the amount is to be paid. Property of a city or town that is not within or
contiguous to the municipal corporate boundaries and from which water is or may
be withdrawn or diverted and transported for use on other property is
considered to be taxable property in the county for purposes of determining
assessed valuation in the county under this item.
(ii)The proportion that
the distribution base monies collected during the calendar month in each county
under this article, section 425164, subsection B, section 425205,
subsection B and section 425353 bear to the total distribution base
monies collected under this article, section 425164, subsection B,
section 425205, subsection B and section 425353 throughout the
state for the calendar month.
(b)If the proportion
computed under subdivision (a) of this paragraph for any county is greater than
the proportion computed under paragraph 2 of this subsection, the department
shall compute the difference between the amount distributed to that county
under paragraph 2 of this subsection and the amount that would have been
distributed under paragraph 2 of this subsection using the proportion computed
under subdivision (a) of this paragraph and shall pay that difference to the
county from the amount available for distribution under this
paragraph.Any monies remaining after all payments under this
subdivision shall be distributed among the counties according to the
proportions computed under paragraph 2 of this subsection.
4.After any
distributions required by sections 425030, 425030.01, 425031,
425032, 425032.01 and 425032.02, and after making any
transfer to the water quality assurance revolving fund as required by section
49282, subsection B, credit the remainder of the monies designated as
distribution base to the state general fund.From this amount the
legislature shall annually appropriate to:
(a)The department of
revenue sufficient monies to administer and enforce this article and articles 5
and 8 of this chapter.
(b)The department of
economic security monies to be used for the purposes stated in title 46,
chapter 1.
(c)The
firearms safety and ranges fund established by section 17273, fifty
thousand dollars derived from the taxes collected from the retail
classification pursuant to section 425061 for the current fiscal year.
E.If approved by the
qualified electors voting at a statewide general election, all monies collected
pursuant to section 425010, subsection G and section 425155,
subsection D shall be distributed each fiscal year pursuant to this
subsection.The monies distributed pursuant to this subsection are
in addition to any other appropriation, transfer or other allocation of public
or private monies from any other source and shall not supplant, replace or
cause a reduction in other school district, charter school, university or
community college funding sources.The monies shall be distributed
as follows:
1.If there are
outstanding state school facilities revenue bonds pursuant to title 15, chapter
16, article 7, each month onetwelfth of the amount that is necessary to
pay the fiscal year's debt service on outstanding state school improvement
revenue bonds for the current fiscal year shall be transferred each month to
the school improvement revenue bond debt service fund established by section 152084.The
total amount of bonds for which these monies may be allocated for the payment
of debt service shall not exceed a principal amount of eight hundred million
dollars exclusive of refunding bonds and other refinancing obligations.
2.After any transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, twelve per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the technology and research initiative fund established by section 151648
to be distributed among the universities for the purpose of investment in
technology and researchbased initiatives.
3.After the transfer of
monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, three per cent of the
remaining monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to
the workforce development account established in each community college
district pursuant to section 151472 for the purpose of investment in
workforce development programs.
4.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the amount a community college that is owned, operated or chartered by a
qualifying Indian tribe on its own Indian reservation would receive pursuant to
section 151472, subsection D, paragraph 2 if it were a community college
district shall be distributed each month to the treasurer or other designated
depository of a qualifying Indian tribe. Monies distributed pursuant to this
paragraph are for the exclusive purpose of providing support to one or more
community colleges owned, operated or chartered by a qualifying Indian tribe
and shall be used in a manner consistent with section 151472, subsection
B. For the purposes of this paragraph, "qualifying Indian tribe" has
the same meaning as defined in section 425031.01, subsection D.
5.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, onetwelfth
of the following amounts shall be transferred each month to the department of
education for the increased cost of basic state aid under section 15971
due to added school days and associated teacher salary increases enacted in
2000:
(a)In fiscal year 20012002,
$15,305,900.
(b)In fiscal year 20022003,
$31,530,100.
(c)In fiscal year 20032004,
$48,727,700.
(d)In fiscal year 20042005,
$66,957,200.
(e)In fiscal year 20052006
and each fiscal year thereafter, $86,280,500.
6.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, seven million
eight hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the department of education to be used for school
safety as provided in section 15154 and two hundred thousand dollars is
appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in monthly installments to the
department of education to be used for the character education matching grant
program as provided in section 15154.01.
7.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, no more than seven
million dollars may be appropriated by the legislature each fiscal year to the
department of education to be used for accountability purposes as described in
section 15241 and title 15, chapter 9, article 8.
8.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, one million five
hundred thousand dollars is appropriated each fiscal year, to be paid in
monthly installments, to the failing schools tutoring fund established by
section 15241.
9.After transferring
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this subsection, twentyfive
million dollars shall be transferred each fiscal year to the state general fund
to reimburse the general fund for the cost of the income tax credit allowed by
section 431072.01.
10.After the payment of
monies pursuant to paragraphs 1 through 9 of this subsection, the remaining
monies collected during the preceding month shall be transferred to the
classroom site fund established by section 15977. The monies shall be
allocated as follows in the manner prescribed by section 15977:
(a)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for teacher compensation based on performance.
(b)Twenty per cent
shall be allocated for increases in teacher base compensation and employee
related expenses.
(c)Forty per cent shall
be allocated for maintenance and operation purposes.
F.The
following apply to the transaction privilege tax revenues that are separately
accounted for under subsection a, paragraph 3 of this section:
1.Each
month the department shall transmit to the treasurer or other designated
depository of each indian tribe fifty percent of the transaction privilege tax
revenues that are received in the preceding month from all sources located on
the indian reservation pursuant to this article.
2.The
indian tribe shall use monies received under this subsection for
telecommunication infrastructure development and for community development
projects, including multipurpose buildings, infrastructure development and
roads on the indian reservation that are located within this state.
3.The
indian tribe may use the monies received under this subsection for bonding or
as collateral for loans for the purposes stated in paragraph 2 of this
subsection.
4.After
payment of monies pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, the department
shall credit the remainder of the monies to the state general fund.
5.This
subsection does not change the distribution of any monies prescribed by
subsection e of this section.
F.G.The department shall credit the
remainder of the monies in the transaction privilege and severance tax clearing
account to the state general fund, subject to any distribution required by
section 425030.01.
G.H.Notwithstanding subsection D of
this section, if a court of competent jurisdiction finally determines that tax
monies distributed under this section were illegally collected under this
article or articles 5 and 8 of this chapter and orders the monies to be
refunded to the taxpayer, the department shall compute the amount of such
monies that was distributed to each city, town and county under this section.
Each city's, town's and county's proportionate share of the costs shall be
based on the amount of the original tax payment each municipality and county
received. Each month the state treasurer shall reduce the amount otherwise
distributable to the city, town and county under this section by one thirtysixth
of the total amount to be recovered from the city, town or county until the
total amount has been recovered, but the monthly reduction for any city, town
or county shall not exceed ten per cent of the full monthly distribution to
that entity.The reduction shall begin for the first calendar month
after the final disposition of the case and shall continue until the total
amount, including interest and costs, has been recovered. 
H.I.On receiving a certificate of
default from the greater Arizona development authority pursuant to section 412257
or 412258 and to the extent not otherwise expressly prohibited by law,
the state treasurer shall withhold from the next succeeding distribution of
monies pursuant to this section due to the defaulting political subdivision the
amount specified in the certificate of default and immediately deposit the
amount withheld in the greater Arizona development authority revolving
fund.The state treasurer shall continue to withhold and deposit the
monies until the greater Arizona development authority certifies to the state
treasurer that the default has been cured.In no event may the state
treasurer withhold any amount that the defaulting political subdivision
certifies to the state treasurer and the authority as being necessary to make
any required deposits then due for the payment of principal and interest on
bonds of the political subdivision that were issued before the date of the loan
repayment agreement or bonds and that have been secured by a pledge of
distributions made pursuant to this section.
I.J.Except as provided by sections
425033 and 425033.01, the population of a county, city or town as
determined by the most recent United States decennial census plus any revisions
to the decennial census certified by the United States bureau of the census
shall be used as the basis for apportioning monies pursuant to subsection D of
this section. 
J.K.Except as otherwise provided by
this subsection, on notice from the department of revenue pursuant to section
426010, subsection B, the state treasurer shall withhold from the
distribution of monies pursuant to this section to the affected city or town the
amount of the penalty for business location municipal tax incentives provided
by the city or town to a business entity that locates a retail business
facility in the city or town.The state treasurer shall continue to
withhold monies pursuant to this subsection until the entire amount of the
penalty has been withheld.The state treasurer shall credit any
monies withheld pursuant to this subsection to the state general fund as
provided by subsection D, paragraph 4 of this section. The state treasurer shall
not withhold any amount that the city or town certifies to the department of
revenue and the state treasurer as being necessary to make any required
deposits or payments for debt service on bonds or other longterm
obligations of the city or town that were issued or incurred before the
location incentives provided by the city or town.
K.L.On notice from the auditor
general pursuant to section 9626, subsection D, the state treasurer
shall withhold from the distribution of monies pursuant to this section to the
affected city the amount computed pursuant to section 9626, subsection
D.The state treasurer shall continue to withhold monies pursuant to
this subsection until the entire amount specified in the notice has been
withheld. The state treasurer shall credit any monies withheld pursuant to
this subsection to the state general fund as provided by subsection D,
paragraph 4 of this section.
L.M.For the purposes of this
section, "community college district" means a community college
district that is established pursuant to sections 151402 and 151403
and that is a political subdivision of this state and, unless otherwise
specified, includes a community college tuition financing district established pursuant to section 151409.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-5031.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5031.01.Distribution of revenues for Indian
tribal postsecondary educational institutions; compact; definition
A.Subject to the limitation under subsection C of this section, each
month the state treasurer shall transmit to the treasurer or other designated
depository of each qualifying Indian tribe the amount of transaction privilege
tax revenues received pursuant to this article in the preceding month from all
sources located on the Indian reservation established for the qualifying Indian
tribe as determined pursuant to section 425029, subsection A, paragraph
3.
B.The monies distributed pursuant to this section
are for the exclusive purpose of supporting the maintenance, renewal and
capital expenses of one or more community college campuses in this state that
are owned, operated or chartered by each qualifying Indian tribe on its own
Indian reservation.Before receiving any monies under this section,
a qualifying Indian tribe shall enter into an initial compact with this state
on or before September 1, 2017, signed by the governor, to account for the use
of monies distributed pursuant to this section. The compact shall:
1.Be for a term of at least ten years. After a
hearing and review of the compact by the joint legislative budget committee
held during the last year of the compact's term, a compact may be renewed for
an additional term of up to ten years.
2.Require the monies to be used primarily for
capital needs,
including maintenance and renewal of existing facilities at designated
community college campuses on the qualifying Indian tribe's own reservation in
this state.
3.Provide for audits by the auditor general of the
use of the monies.The auditor general shall submit copies of each
audit to the joint legislative budget committee.
4.If necessary, provide for reimbursement to the
department of revenue of costs associated with implementing this section, not
to exceed one hundred fifty thousand dollars, from revenues that would
otherwise be paid to the qualifying Indian tribe pursuant to this section.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, The state treasurer shall not
transmit under this section
in any fiscal year more than the sum of the following amounts:
1.With respect to a single community college, one
million seven hundred fifty thousand dollars or more than ten percent of
transaction privilege tax revenues received pursuant to this article from all
sources located on the reservation, whichever is less.
2.With respect to an additional technical college
located on the same Indian reservation, eight hundred seventy-five thousand
dollars or more than five percent of transaction privilege tax revenues
received pursuant to this article from all sources located on the reservation,
whichever is less.
D.For the purposes of this section,
"qualifying Indian tribe" means an Indian tribe that owns, operates and
charters any community college or postsecondary educational institution located
on its own reservation in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-6010, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6010.Retail business location municipal tax incentives;
prohibition; penalty; exceptions; definitions
A.If at least sixty-five per cent percent of the land area within a city's or town's exterior
boundaries is located within the exterior boundary of a metropolitan
statistical area having a population of more than two million persons, the city
or town shall not offer or provide a tax incentive to a business entity as an
inducement or in exchange for locating or relocating a retail business facility
in the city or town.
B.A city or town that violates this section is
subject to a penalty equal to the amount of the incentive realized by the
taxpayer, extended over a period of sixty months. The department of revenue
shall notify the state treasurer to withhold the amount of the penalty from
monies otherwise payable to the city or town as provided by section 425029,
subsection J K.
C.The city or town shall report to the department
of revenue the value of any tax incentive used as an inducement or in exchange
for locating or relocating a retail business facility in the city or
town.For the purposes of this subsection, the value includes all
negotiated amounts, in any form and whether actual, realized or contingent,
over the term of the incentive agreement.
D.This section does not apply with respect to:
1.Municipal services and benefits generally
afforded by ordinance to all new businesses in the city or town, having no
direct affect effect on municipal tax levies.
2.Tax incentives that are afforded to all existing
retail business facilities in the city or town.
3.Tax incentives for locating retail business
facilities in an area designated as a redevelopment project pursuant to title
36, chapter 12, article 3 where the average household income is less than the
average city household income as determined by the United States census bureau.
4.Incentives consisting of reimbursement for public
infrastructure dedicated to and accepted and controlled upon completion of the
project by the city or town, county, state or a private utility where no other
political subdivision provides such utility for transportation, water, sewer,
electrical, drainage, the fair market value of real property necessary for the
public infrastructure and other necessary public infrastructure. This
paragraph does not apply to parking lots, parking structures or parking
facilities or other structures or amenities owned or controlled by a private
entity.
5.Incentives that are offered for the purpose of
preserving historical buildings and other structures.
6.Incentives that are offered for cleanup or other
remediation activities at a brownfields site under title 49, chapter 2, article
1.1 or the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability
act of 1980 (P.L. 96-510, 94 Stat. 2767; 42 United States Code sections 9601
through 9657), commonly known as "superfund".
E.To qualify as exempt from the penalty, an
incentive under subsection D of this section that is offered in exchange for
expenses incurred by the business entity must be in the form of a reimbursement
of the expenses and may not exceed or otherwise be disproportional to the
actual cost incurred.
F.This section does not apply to tax incentives that
were referred to a vote of the qualified electors of the city or town before
July 1, 2007 and approved by the qualified electors of the city or town.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Metropolitan statistical area" means a
geographical area consisting of cities, towns and other populated areas defined
for federal statistical and census purposes by the United States office of
management and budget with technical assistance from the United States bureau
of the census.
2."Retail business facility" means a
store, warehouse or other improvement to real estate where at least one-half of
the business conducted on the premises consists of retail sales of tangible
personal property to the ultimate consumer, measured by either the number of
employees assigned to retail sales or the square footage of the facility used
for retail sales.For the purposes of this paragraph, retail sales
do not include:
(a)Sales of food and beverage for consumption on
the premises of the facility.
(b)The distribution without charge of promotional
products that display the company logo or trademark.
(c)Sales solely to company employees.
3."Tax incentive" means any waiver,
exemption, deduction, credit, rebate, discount, deferral or other abatement or
reduction of the normal municipal tax liability of an individual taxpayer that
otherwise applies to similar existing taxpayers and properties in the city or
town, however denominated, computed or applied, and generally understood as an
inducement for the taxpayer to locate a business facility or other operation in
the city or town. END_STATUTE

