







REFERENCE TITLE: insurance; licensed entities







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2342









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston: Fann





AN ACT

Amending sections
20286, 20321 and 201693, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to insurance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-286, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-286.Licensure; lines of authority
A.Unless the director denies a license pursuant to
section 20295, the director shall issue a resident insurance producer
license to any person who meets the requirements prescribed in sections 20284
and 20285. An insurance producer may qualify for a license in one or
more of the following lines of authority:
1.Life. Life insurance is coverage on human lives,
including benefits of endowment and annuities, and may include benefits in the
event of death or dismemberment by accident and benefits for disability income.
2.Accident and health or sickness. Accident and
health or sickness insurance is coverage for sickness, bodily injury or
accidental death and may include benefits for disability income.
3.Property. Property insurance is coverage for the
direct or consequential loss or damage to property of every kind.
4.Casualty. Casualty insurance is coverage against
legal liability, including liability for death, injury, disability or damage to
real or personal property.
5.Variable life and variable annuity products.
Variable life and variable annuity is insurance coverage that is provided under
a variable life insurance contract or a variable annuity.
6.Personal lines. Personal lines is property and
casualty insurance coverage that is sold to individuals and families for
primarily noncommercial purposes.
7.Credit. Credit insurance is limited line credit
insurance.
8.Any other line of insurance allowed under state
law or rules adopted by the director.
B.The license shall contain the licensee's name,
address and identification number, the date of issuance, the lines of
authority, the expiration date and any other information the director deems
necessary. The director may make the information prescribed by this section
available electronically.
C.A licensee shall inform the director in writing
within thirty days of any change in the licensee's:
1.Residential, or
business or email address.
2.Members, directors, officers or designated
producer. The director may require that a licensee who notifies the director
of a change pursuant to this paragraph submit a full set of fingerprints of
each new member, director, officer or designated producer to the director for
the purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to
section 411750 and Public Law 92544. The department of public
safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of
investigation.
3.Name.
D.In order to assist in the performance of the
director's duties, the director may contract with a third party to perform any
ministerial functions that are related to producer licensing and that the
director deems appropriate, including the collection of fees. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 20-321, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-321.Definitions 
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Adjuster":
(a)Means any person who for compensation, fee or
commission either:
(i)Adjusts, investigates or negotiates settlement
of claims arising under property and casualty insurance contracts on behalf of either the insurer or the insured.
(ii)Holds oneself out to perform a service listed
in item (i) of this subdivision.
(b)Does not include:
(i)A licensed attorneyatlaw who is
qualified to practice law in this state.
(ii)A salaried employee of an insurer or of a
managing general agent. For the purposes of this item, "salaried
employee" means an employee whose compensation is not contingent on the
outcome of a claim determination.
(iii)A licensed insurance producer who adjusts or
assists in adjustment of losses arising under policies procured through the
insurance producer.
(iv)An employee of a political subdivision who
adjusts or assists in the adjustment of losses arising under policies covering
the political subdivision or persons indemnified by the political subdivision.
(v)An independent contractor retained by a licensed
adjuster or a person listed in items (i) through (iv) of this subdivision for
the sole purpose of providing technical assistance in connection with a claim.
Independent contractors may include photographers, estimators, engineers,
private detectives or handwriting experts.
(vi)An individual who collects claim information
from or furnishes claim information to insureds or claimants and who conducts
data entry, including entering data into an automated claims adjudication
system, if no more than twentyfive persons, as described in this item,
are under the supervision of a single licensed adjuster or licensed producer.
A licensed insurance producer who is supervising or adjusting claims pursuant
to this item is not required to be licensed as an adjuster.
(vii)Registered thirdparty administrators
and their employees who are engaged in administering accident and health or
life insurance claims.
2."Automated claims adjudication system"
means a preprogrammed computer system that is designed for the collection, data
entry, calculation and final resolution of portable consumer electronic
products insurance claims and that:
(a)May be used only by a licensed adjuster, a
licensed producer or supervised individuals operating pursuant to this
paragraph.
(b)Must comply with all claims payment requirements
under this title and be certified as compliant by a licensed adjuster.
3."Portable consumer electronic products"
means electronic devices and related accessories that are portable in nature. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 20-1693, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1693.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Customer" means a person who purchases
portable electronics or services.
2."Enrolled customer" means a customer
who elects coverage under a portable electronics insurance policy issued to a
vendor of portable electronics.
3."Location" means any physical location
in this state or any website, call center site or similar location directed to
residents of this state.
4."Portable electronics" means personal,
self-contained, easily carried by an individual, batteryoperated
electronic communication, viewing, listening, recording, gaming, computing or
global positioning devices, including cell or satellite phones, pagers,
personal global positioning satellite units, portable computers, portable audio
listening devices, video viewing or recording devices, digital cameras, video
camcorders, portable gaming systems, docking stations, automatic answering
devices and other similar devices and the devices' accessories.
5."Portable electronics insurance":
(a)Means insurance providing coverage for the
repair or replacement of portable electronics that may provide coverage for
portable electronics against loss, theft or inoperability, or any combination
thereof, due to mechanical failure, malfunction, damage or other similar causes
of loss.
(b)Does not include:
(i)A service contract under chapter 4, article 11
of this title.
(ii)An insurance policy covering a seller's or
manufacturer's obligations under a warranty.
(iii)A homeowner's, renter's, private passenger
automobile, commercial multiperil or similar policy.
6."Portable electronics transaction"
means either:
(a)The sale or lease of portable electronics by a
vendor to a customer.
(b)The sale of a service related to the use of
portable electronics by a vendor to a customer.
7."Supervising entity" means a business
entity that is a licensed insurer or insurance producer and that is authorized
by an insurer to supervise the administration of a portable electronics
insurance policy.
8."Vendor" means a person
business in the business of engaging in portable electronics
transactions directly or indirectly. END_STATUTE

