







REFERENCE TITLE: sovereign authority; refugees







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2370









Introduced by
Representatives
  Thorpe: Boyer, Cobb, Fann, Finchem, Mesnard, Townsend





AN ACT

amending title 1,
chapter 2, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 1-272;
relating to sovereign authority.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 1, chapter 2, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 1-272, to read:
START_STATUTE1-272.Sovereign authority; refugees; prohibition; notice
A.Pursuant
to the sovereign authority of this state and article II, section 3,
Constitution of Arizona, this state and all political subdivisions of this
state are prohibited from using any personnel or financial resources to
enforce, administer or cooperate with any action of the United States government
that places within this state any refugee, unaccompanied alien child or other
person who is not a citizen of the United States unless:
1.the
person has undergone a thorough criminal history, terrorism and health
background check and has been approved for placement by this state.
2.the
united states GOVERNMENT has agreed to fully reimburse this STATE and its
political subdivisions for the ongoing costs of the placement that are incurred
by this state and its political subdivisions.
B.The
attorney general shall annually notify the Speaker of the united states house
of representatives, the majority LEADER of the united states senate and the
United States department of justice of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Legislative findings
A.The United States government has not fulfilled
its constitutional responsibilities to ensure secure international borders and
to regulate lawful, controlled and limited immigration.
B.The United States government has placed
noncitizen refugees, unaccompanied alien children and other noncitizens within
this state without the knowledge or permission of state and local officials and
without disclosing the personal information and locations where these
individuals are residing.
C.It typically costs the
taxpayers of this state tens of thousands of dollars annually to provide public
education and public assistance for each noncitizen refugee, unaccompanied
alien child or other noncitizen placed within this state by the United
States government.
D.The United
States government has not provided full reimbursement
of all state and local costs associated with the placement of noncitizen
refugees, unaccompanied alien children and other noncitizens placed within this
state by the United States government.
E.This state has no
confidence that the United States government has
fully and competently vetted each noncitizen refugee, unaccompanied alien child
and other noncitizen placed within this state by the United States
government for health conditions and routine
vaccinations. Therefore, the United States government has potentially compromised the public health of the
citizens of this state.
F.This state has no
confidence that the United States government has
fully and competently vetted each noncitizen refugee, unaccompanied alien child
and other noncitizen placed within this state by the United States
government for criminal and terrorist backgrounds and
associations. Therefore, the United States government has potentially compromised the safety of the citizens of this
state.

