







REFERENCE TITLE: environment; water quality amendments







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2325









Introduced by
Representatives
  Pratt: Bowers, Shope





AN ACT

amending sections
49-210, 49-352, 49-353 and 49-361, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to water
quality control.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 49-210, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-210.Water quality fee fund; appropriation; exemption; monies
held in trust
A.The water quality fee fund is established
consisting of monies appropriated by the legislature and fees received pursuant
to sections 49104, 49203, 49241, 49-241.02, 49242, 49255.01, 49332, and 49-352,
49353 and 49-361.
The director shall administer the fund.
B.Monies in the fund are subject to annual
legislative appropriation to the department for water quality programs. Monies
in the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
C.On notice from the director, the state treasurer
shall invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by section 35313,
and monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund.
D.Monies in the water quality fee fund shall be
used for the following purposes:
1.The issuance of aquifer protection permits
pursuant to section 49241.
2.The aquifer protection permit registration fee
procedures pursuant to section 49242.
3.Dry well registration fee procedures pursuant to
section 49332.
4.Technical review fee procedures pursuant to
section 49353.
5.Inspection fee procedures pursuant to section 49104,
subsection C.
6.The issuance of permits under the Arizona
pollutant discharge elimination system program pursuant to section 49-255.01.
7.Operator
certification pursuant to sections 49-352 and 49-361.
E.Any fee, assessment or other levy that is authorized
by law or administrative rule and that is collected and deposited in the water
quality fee fund shall be held in trust. The monies in the fund may be used
only for the purposes prescribed by statute and shall not be appropriated or
transferred by the legislature to fund the general operations of this state or
to otherwise meet the obligations of the general fund of this state. This
subsection does not apply to any taxes or other levies that are imposed
pursuant to title 42 or 43. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 49-352, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-352.Classifying systems and certifying personnel; limitation
A.The department shall establish and enforce rules
for the classification of systems for potable water and certifying operating
personnel according to the skill, knowledge and experience necessary within the
classification.The rules shall also provide that operating personnel
may be certified on the basis of training and supervision at the place of
employment.The department may assess and collect reasonable
certification fees to reimburse the cost of certification services, which shall
be deposited in the state general
water quality fee fund established by section 49-210.Such
rules apply to all public water systems involved in the collection, storage,
treatment or distribution of potable water.The rules do not apply
to systems that are not public water systems, including irrigation, industrial or similar
systems where the water is used for nonpotable purposes.
B.For the purposes of this article:
1.A public water system is a water system that:
(a)Provides water for human consumption through
pipes or other constructed conveyances.
(b)Has at least fifteen service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least twentyfive persons daily for at
least sixty days a year.
2.A public water system as described in paragraph
1, subdivisions (a) and (b) of this subsection
includes any collection, treatment, storage and distribution
facilities that are under the control of the operator of a public water system
and that are used primarily in connection with the system and any collection or
pretreatment storage facilities that are not under the control of the operator
of a public water system and that are used primarily in connection with a
public water system.
3.A service connection does not include a
connection to a system that delivers water by a constructed conveyance other
than a pipe, if any of the following applies:
(a)The water is used exclusively for purposes other
than residential uses consisting of drinking, cooking or bathing or other
similar uses.
(b)The department determines that alternative water
is provided for residential or similar uses for drinking and cooking and that
the water achieves a level of public health protection that is equivalent to
the applicable national primary drinking water regulations.
(c)The department determines that the water that is
provided for residential or similar uses for drinking, cooking and bathing is
centrally treated or is treated at the point of entry by the water provider, a
passthrough entity or the user to achieve the level of public health
protection that is equivalent to the applicable national primary drinking water
regulations.
4.An irrigation district in existence before May
18, 1994 and that provides primarily agricultural service through a piped water
system with only incidental residential or similar use is not a public water
system if the system or the residential or other similar users of the system
comply with paragraph 3, subdivision (b) or (c) of this subsection.
5.Persons who receive water through connections
that are not service connections pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection are not included in the
computation of the number of persons prescribed by paragraph 1, subdivision (b)
of this subsection.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
49-353, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-353.Duties of director; rules; prohibited lead use
A.The director
shall:
1.Exercise general supervision over all matters
related to water quality control of public water systems throughout this state.
2.Prescribe rules regarding the production,
treatment, distribution and testing of potable water by public water systems,
except that such rules shall not apply to irrigation, industrial or similar
systems where the water is used for nonpotable purposes.The rules
shall comply with at least the following:
(a)The requirements established by the United
States environmental protection agency for state primary enforcement
responsibility of the safe drinking water act, including the requirements of 40
Code of Federal Regulations parts 141 and 142.
(b)Require that the plans and specifications for
all public water systems, including water treatment plants, distribution
systems, distribution system extensions, water treatment methods and devices
and all appurtenances and devices for sale to be used in water supplies and
public water systems be submitted with a fee for review to the
department.The department, in establishing fees authorized by this
section, shall comply with title 41, chapter 6.The department shall
not set a fee at more than the department's cost of providing the service for
which the fee is charged. State agencies are exempt from all fees imposed
pursuant to this section.Monies collected from the fees shall be
deposited in the water quality fee fund established by section 49210.The
director may require that plans and specifications for public water systems
include programs to meet future needs for drinking water and to supply
specified minimum quantities of drinking water.The director shall:
(i)Require that a new public water system
demonstrate that the system possesses adequate managerial and financial
capacity to operate in compliance with this article and the rules adopted
pursuant to this article.
(ii)Accept adequate findings of other public
authorities regarding the adequate managerial and financial capacity of a
public water system to operate in compliance with this article and the rules
adopted pursuant to this article.
(c)Provide that no public water system, including a
water treatment plant, distribution system, distribution system extension,
water treatment method or device, appurtenance and device used in water
supplies or public water systems be constructed, reconstructed, installed or
initiated before compliance with the standards and rules has been demonstrated
by approval of the plans and specifications by the department.The
rules shall prescribe minimum standards for the bacteriological, physical and
chemical quality of water distributed through public water
systems.The director of environmental quality may consult with the
director of the department of health services in developing these standards.
(d)Provide for a simplified administrative
procedure for approving structural revisions, additions, extensions or
modifications to existing small public water systems for potable water serving
a population of three thousand three hundred or fewer persons.
(e)Exempt from the plan review requirements of this
paragraph, including any requirements for approval to construct or approval of
construction, any structural revisions, additions, extensions or modifications
to public water systems which are in compliance with the department's rules
applicable to those systems or which are making satisfactory progress towards
compliance under a schedule approved by the department if either of the
following conditions is satisfied:
(i)The revision, addition, extension or
modification has a project cost of twelve thousand five hundred dollars or
less.
(ii)The revision, addition, extension or
modification is made to a water line which is not for a subdivision requiring
plat approval by a city, town or county, and has a project cost of more than
twelve thousand five hundred dollars but less than fifty thousand dollars, the
design of which is sealed by a professional engineer registered in this state
and the construction of which is reviewed for conformance with the design by a
professional engineer.
(f)Require a notice of compliance with the
conditions for exemption upon the completion of any revisions, additions,
extensions or modifications completed in accordance with subdivision (e) of
this paragraph.
(g)Provide for the submission of samples at stated
intervals.
(h)Provide for inspection and certification of such
water supplies.
(i)Provide for the abatement as public nuisances of
any premises, equipment, process or device, or public water system that does
not comply with the minimum standards and rules.
(j)Provide for records regarding water quality to
be kept by owners and operators of the public water systems and that reports
regarding water quality be filed with the department.
(k)Provide for appropriate actions to be taken if a
water supply does not meet the standards established by the department.
(l)Require a public water system to implement a
specified program to control contamination from backflow, backsiphonage or
cross connection.All such programs shall be consistent with title
41, chapter 16.
(m)Require that public water systems identify and
provide notice to persons that may be affected by lead contamination of their
drinking water where such contamination results from either or both of the
following:
(i)The lead content in the construction materials
of the public water distribution system.
(ii)Corrosivity of the water supply sufficient to
cause leaching of lead.
(n)Provide for relief from water testing and
monitoring requirements for public water systems qualifying under the federal
safe drinking water act (P.L.
93523; 88 Stat. 1660 1661; P.L. 95190; 91
Stat. 1393; P.L. 104182; 110 Stat. 1613), as amended in 1996.
3.Develop and implement strategies to assist public
water systems in acquiring and maintaining the technical, managerial and
financial capacity to operate in compliance with this article and the rules
adopted pursuant to this article.Assistance may be provided based
on the needs of the water system.
B.Pipes,
and pipe fittings and plumbing fittings and fixtures
having a lead content in excess of eight
per cent a weighted
average of one-quarter of one percent lead when used with respect to the wetted
surfaces and solders and flux having a lead content in excess of
twotenths of one per cent percent shall not be used in
the installation or repair of public water systems or of any plumbing in
residential or nonresidential facilities providing water for human consumption which are connected to public water systems. The weighted average lead content of a
pipe, pipe fitting or plumbing fitting or fixture shall be calculated as
follows:
1.For each
wetted component, the percentage of lead in the component shall be MULTIPLIED
by the ratio of the wetted surface area of that component to the total wetted
surface area of the entire product to arrive at the weighted percentage of lead
of the component.
2.The
weighted percentage of lead of each wetted component shall be added together,
and the sum of these weighted percentages shall constitute the weighted average
lead content of the product.
3.The lead
content of the material used to produce a wetted component shall be used to
determine compliance with this subsection.
4.For lead
content of materials that are provided as a range, the maximum content of that
range shall be used.
C.This Subsection b of this section shall does
not apply to:
1.Leaded
joints necessary for the repair of cast iron pipes.
2.pipes,
pipe fittings and plumbing fittings and fixtures, including backflow
preventers, that are used exclusively for nonpotable water services such as
manufacturing, industrial processing, irrigation, outdoor watering or any other
uses where the water is not anticipated to be used for human consumption.
3.toilets,
bidets, urinals, fill valves, flushometer valves, tub fillers, shower valves or
service saddles or water distribution main gate valves that are two inches in
diameter or larger.
C.D.Notwithstanding
subsection A, paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this section, a public water
system may construct, reconstruct, install, extend or initiate a water supply
system, water treatment plant, distribution system, water treatment method or
device, or appurtenance that is used in water supply or in a public water
system when the system is out of compliance with standards and rules adopted
pursuant to this article only if the construction is necessary to correct the
system's noncompliance.
D.E.The provisions of This section and the rules adopted pursuant to
this section apply to public water systems as described by section 49352,
subsection B.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 49-361, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-361.Sewage treatment plants; operator certification
The department shall adopt and enforce rules to classify sewage
collection systems and treatment plants and to certify operating personnel
according to the skill, knowledge and experience necessary within the
classification.The rules shall provide that operating personnel may
be certified on the basis of training and supervision at the place of
employment.The department may assess and collect reasonable
certification fees to reimburse the cost of certification services, and the
fees shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in
the state general water quality fee fund established by section 49-210.The
rules apply to all sewage treatment plants that receive and treat wastes from
common collection sewers and industrial plants but do not apply to septic
tanks, to devices that serve a single home or to industrial treatment devices
that are used to perform or allow recycling or impounding wastes within the
boundaries of the industry's property.END_STATUTE

