







REFERENCE TITLE: audits; accountants; reciprocity
  privilege







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2448









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mitchell, Borrelli, Cardenas: Friese, Lawrence, Olson, Weninger, Senator
  Driggs





AN ACT

amending sections
6502, 9481, 41725, 411511, 411512, 431507
and 431605, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to accountants.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-502.Reports and examinations
A.The superintendent shall examine or cause to be
examined each credit union at periodic intervals as provided by section 6122.The
superintendent shall forward a report of the examination to the board of
directors of the credit union examined within thirty days after completion of
the report.Within thirty days after the receipt of the report the
directors shall meet to consider matters contained in the report.
B.In lieu of the examination required by subsection
A of this section, the superintendent may accept an examination or audit report
of the condition of a credit union made by the national credit union
administration or by a certified public accountant who is licensed in this state or who has a limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to
section 32725 or other qualified person or organization
approved by the superintendent.The credit union shall bear the cost
of any such examination or audit.A certified public accountant or other qualified person or
organization making an audit to be submitted in lieu of an examination by the
superintendent shall obtain prior approval from the superintendent before
conducting such an audit.
In approving such an audit
the superintendent may prescribe minimum requirements for the audit, including the date by which
the audit must be completed and a copy filed with the superintendent.
C.Within thirty days after the end of each calendar
quarter a credit union shall report to the superintendent, on forms supplied by
the superintendent for that purpose, its financial condition and the results of
its operation for such the quarter.
D.Unless excused for cause before or after the due
date, a credit union which that fails to file a report
when due shall pay the department, as assessed, up to one hundred dollars for
each day of delinquency. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 9-481, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-481.Audits of cities and towns; posting; budget
A.The governing body of
each incorporated city or town shall cause an audit to be made by a certified
public accountant or public accountant who is currently licensed by the Arizona
state board of accountancy or who has a
limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to section 32725 and
who is not an employee of the city or town. Audits shall be made for each
fiscal year for all incorporated cities. Audits shall be made at least once
for every two fiscal years for all incorporated towns, and the audit shall
include financial transactions during both fiscal years.
B.The audit and the
audit report shall include all of the accounts and funds of the city or town,
including operating, special, utility, debt, trust and pension, and all other
money or property for which the city or town, or any department or officer of
the city or town, is responsible either directly or indirectly.The
audits shall be made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.The consequent audit report shall contain financial
statements that are in conformity with generally accepted municipal accounting
principles and shall set forth the financial position and results of the
operations for each fund and account of the city or town. The audit report
shall also include the following:
1.The professional
opinion of the accountant or accountants with respect to the financial
statements or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration of the reasons
an opinion cannot be expressed.
2.A determination as to
whether highway user revenue fund monies received by the city or town pursuant
to title 28, chapter 18, article 2 and any other dedicated state transportation
revenues received by the city or town are being used solely for the authorized
transportation purposes.
C.The audit shall begin
as soon as possible after the close of the fiscal year, although interim
auditing may be performed during the year or years under audit.The
audit shall be completed and the final audit report shall be submitted within
six months after the close of the fiscal year or years audited.
D.At least four three copies of the audit report shall be
signed by the auditor and filed with the city or town.The city or
town shall immediately do the following:
1.Make one copy of the
report a public record that is open to the public for inspection.
2.File one copy of the
report with the auditor general pursuant to section 411279.07,
subsection C.
3.Submit one copy of
the report to the secretary of state.
E.The financial
statements required to be filed with the auditor general pursuant to section 411279.07,
including the audit report, must be posted in a prominent location on the
official website of the city or town no later than seven business days after
the date of filing the financial statements with the auditor
general.The financial statements must be retained and accessible in
a prominent location on the official website for at least sixty months. If the
financial statements are not filed pursuant to section 411279.07, the
form as prescribed by subsection F of this section shall be posted on the
website of the city or town in place of the financial statements until the
financial statements are filed.
F.If the financial
statements for a city or town are not completed and filed as prescribed by
section 411279.07 on or before the adoption of the city or town budget in the subsequent
fiscal year, the governing body shall include a form, as prescribed by the
auditor general, in the published budget in the subsequent fiscal year pursuant
to sections 4217103 and 4217105 stating that the financial
statements required to be filed with the auditor general pursuant to section 411279.07
are pending, the reasons for the delay and the estimated date of completion. 
G.If the governing body
of a city or town is required to complete the form as prescribed by subsection
F of this section, the governing body shall send a copy of the form to the
auditor general, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president
of the senate. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-725, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-725.Comprehensive database of receipts and expenditures of
state monies; local reporting; definition
A.The department shall establish and maintain an
official internet website that is electronically searchable by the public at no
cost and that contains a comprehensive database of receipts and expenditures of state monies.
The database shall include the information as prescribed in the comprehensive annual
financial report of a budget unit that has been made by a certified public
accountant or public accountant who is currently licensed by the Arizona state
board of accountancy or who has a
limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to section 32725 and
who is not an employee of the department. The report shall be made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall contain
financial statements that are in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. If the department has a comprehensive annual financial report of a
budget unit that has been presented with a certificate of achievement for
excellence in financial reporting by the governmental finance officers
association, the department may post such a financial report to satisfy the
requirements of this subsection.
B.The department must present information in the
database in a manner that is intuitive to members of the general public,
including graphical representations. The database must allow users to:
1.Search and aggregate payments by individual
budget units and programs.
2.Search and aggregate payments by individual
vendors, including the total amount of state funding awarded by all budget
units to individual vendors.
3.Download information yielded by a search of the
database.
4.Access electronic versions of contracts that
relate to expenditures.
C.The database shall include the following
information:
1.Annual receipts of revenues, including:
(a)Receipts or deposits by each state budget unit
into funds established in the state treasury.
(b)Taxes.
(c)Earnings by each budget unit, including amounts
collected for merchandise sold, services performed and licenses, certifications
and permits issued.
(d)Revenue from the use of publicly owned money or
property, including leases and licenses.
(e)Gifts, donations and grants received, including
amounts received from the federal government.
(f)Any other type of public revenue, however
denominated or derived, deposited into the state treasury.
2.Annual expenditures and disbursements of state
revenues by each state budget unit from funds established in the state
treasury, as applicable, including:
(a)Bond payments, debt service and redemption
charges and fees.
(b)Contractual services and cooperative agreements.
(c)Commodities.
(d)Capital outlay.
(e)Revenue sharing and other aid to other levels of
government, including tribal governments.
(f)Any other expenditure or disbursement of state
revenue from the state treasury, however denominated or structured.
D.Expenditure data shall list:
1.The manner of payment, including check or warrant
or credit, debit or other purchase card.
2.The funding source, including categorical codes
and the state accounts the expenditure is appropriated from.
3.A standardized descriptive title of the type and
purpose of the transaction.
4.The date and amount of each payment.
5.The state agency or budget unit making the
payment.
6.The name of the person or entity receiving the
payment, including to the extent practical
practicable a parent
entity of the recipient if the recipient is owned by another entity.
7.The primary location of performance under the
contract, including the county, city or town and legislative district.
E.The database shall not include:
1.Tax payment or refund data that include
confidential taxpayer information.
2.Data relating to payments of state assistance to
individual recipients.
3.Payees' addresses or telephone numbers, but the
department may allow public access in the database to information identifying
the county in which the payee is located.
4.Work product in anticipation of litigation or
information subject to attorney-client privilege.
5.Any other information that is designated by law
as confidential or preapproved as confidential by the department pursuant to
rule.The department and any officer or employee of the department:
(a)May rely on a determination made by a budget
unit regarding confidentiality of information relating to the budget unit's
expenditures.
(b)Are immune from civil liability for posting
confidential information under this section if the posting is in reliance on
the budget unit's determination relating to confidentiality.
F.Each budget unit
shall cooperate with the department as necessary to implement and administer
this section. Each budget unit shall provide to the department any additional
data in a manner and schedule prescribed by the department that are required to
be included in the database. The database shall be updated within thirty days
after the end of each fiscal year and may be updated as new data become
available. The data shall be retained in the database for at least ten full
fiscal years.
G.The governor, secretary of state, state treasurer
and legislature shall include a link to the database under this section in
their individual official websites. Each budget unit that maintains a
generally accessible internet website, or for which a generally accessible
website is maintained, shall include a link on that website to the database
under this section.
H.On or
before January 1, 2013, Each local government shall establish and
maintain an official internet website that is accessible to the public at no
cost and that contains a comprehensive reporting of all revenues and expenditures
over five thousand dollars of local monies in as nearly as practicable the same
manner and consistent with the provisions
of subsections B through E
of this section. The database shall include the information as
prescribed in the comprehensive annual financial report of a budget unit that
has been made by a certified public accountant or public accountant who is
currently licensed by the Arizona state board of accountancy or who has a limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to
section 32725 and who is not an employee of the local
government. The report shall be made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and shall contain financial statements that are in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. If a local government
has a comprehensive annual financial report of a budget unit that has been
presented with a certificate of achievement for excellence in financial
reporting by the governmental finance officers association, the local
government may post such a financial report to satisfy the requirements of this
subsection. A link to this data shall be displayed in a prominent place on the
local government's official internet website or on a website of an association
of cities and towns for cities and towns that do not have official websites and
on the department's official internet website as prescribed in this section.
The data shall be updated no less frequently than every three months and may be
updated as new data becomes available. The data shall be retained and
accessible online for at least three fiscal years.
I.For the purposes of this section "local
government" means:
1.A county, city or town with a population of more
than twenty-five hundred persons.
2.Any community college district and school district
having a student count of more than six hundred pupils.
3.A state university. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
41-1511, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1511.Renewable energy tax incentives; qualification;
definitions
A.Tax incentives are allowed for expanding or
locating qualified renewable energy operations in this state, including income
tax credits pursuant to sections 431083.01 and 431164.01 and
property tax classification pursuant to section 4212006, paragraph 8.
B.To be eligible for the tax incentives, a
renewable energy business must apply to the authority, on a form prescribed by
the authority, for preapproval of the business as qualifying for the
incentives.The application must include:
1.The applicant's name, address, telephone number
and federal taxpayer identification number or numbers.
2.The name, address, telephone number and email
address of a contact person for the applicant.
3.The address of the site where the qualifying
renewable energy operation will be located.
4.A detailed description of the qualifying
renewable energy operation and fixed capital assets.
5.An estimate of the capital investment and number
of employment positions at the qualifying renewable energy operation,
including:
(a)A schedule of qualifying investments.
(b)A list of fulltime employment positions,
the estimated number of employees to be hired for the positions each year during
the first five years of operation and the annual wages for each position,
calculated without employee-related benefits.
6.A nonrefundable processing fee in an amount
determined by the authority.
7.Other information as required by the authority to
determine eligibility for the tax incentives, and the amount of income tax
credits, as prescribed by this section.
8.An affirmation, signed by an authorized executive
representing the business, that the applicant:
(a)Agrees to furnish records of expenditures for
qualifying investments to the authority on request.
(b)Will continue in business at the qualifying
renewable energy operation for five full calendar years after postapproval for
a tax incentive, other than for reasons beyond the control of the applicant.
(c)Agrees to furnish to the authority information
regarding the amount of tax benefits claimed each year.
(d)Authorizes the department of revenue to provide
tax information to the authority pursuant to section 422003 for the
purpose of determining any inconsistency in information furnished by the
applicant.
(e)Agrees to allow site visits and audits to verify
the applicant's continuing qualification and the accuracy of information
submitted to the authority.
(f)Consents to the adjustment or recapture of any
amount of income tax credit or property tax incentive due to noncompliance with
this section.
9.Letters of good standing from the department of
revenue and the county treasurer of the county in which the project is located
stating that the applicant is in good standing and is not delinquent in the
payment of taxes.
C.To be eligible for the tax incentives, the
applicant must make new capital investment in this state after September 30,
2009 in a manufacturing facility or headquarters facility or any combination of
qualifying facilities, as follows:
1.The applicant may qualify for income tax credits
pursuant to section 431083.01 or 431164.01, as applicable, if:
(a)At least fiftyone per cent percent of the net new full-time employment positions at
the renewable energy operation pay a wage that equals or exceeds one hundred
twentyfive per cent percent of the median annual
wage in this state, as determined by the most recent annual Arizona commerce
authority occupational wage and employment estimates issued before the
preapproval is issued pursuant to subsection I of this section.
(b)All net new fulltime employment positions
include health insurance coverage for the employees for which the applicant
pays at least eighty per cent
percent of the premium or
membership cost.
2.The fixed capital assets shall be classified as
class six for the purposes of property taxation pursuant to section 4212006,
paragraph 8 if the qualifying investment amounts to at least twentyfive
million dollars, if the applicant pays at least eighty per cent percent of the health insurance costs or membership costs
for all net new employees and if at least fiftyone per cent percent of the net new full-time employment positions at
the qualifying renewable energy operation pay a wage that equals:
(a)At least one hundred twenty-five, but less than
two hundred, per cent percent of the median annual
wage in this state, as determined by the most recent annual Arizona commerce
authority occupational wage and employment estimates issued before the
preapproval is issued pursuant to subsection I of this section, the property
may be classified as class six for ten tax years.
(b)At least two hundred per cent percent of the median annual wage in this state, as determined
by the most recent annual Arizona commerce authority occupational wage and
employment estimates issued before the preapproval is issued pursuant to
subsection I of this section, the property may be classified as class six for
fifteen tax years.
D.Final eligibility for the tax incentives is
subject to any additional requirements prescribed by sections 4212006,
431083.01 and 431164.01, as applicable.
E.An applicant may separately apply and qualify
with respect to investments for:
1.Renewable energy operations in separate
locations.
2.Separate expansions of a renewable energy
operation.
F.To determine the amount of income tax credit to
be preapproved to a qualifying applicant, the authority shall use one of the
following computations:
1.Ten per
cent percent of
the amount the applicant has projected in total qualifying investment in
renewable energy operations meeting the following minimum employment
requirements:
(a)For renewable energy manufacturing operations,
at least one and one-half new full-time employment positions projected by the
applicant for each five hundred thousand dollar increment of capital
investment.
(b)For renewable energy business headquarters, at
least one new fulltime employment position projected by the applicant
for each two hundred thousand dollar increment of capital investment.
2.For other qualifying renewable energy investment,
ten per cent percent of the amount computed
as follows:
(a)Five hundred thousand dollars for each one and
one-half new fulltime employment positions projected by the applicant in
new renewable energy manufacturing operations.
(b)Two hundred thousand dollars for each new
full-time employment position projected by the applicant at a new renewable
energy business headquarters.
G.Beginning with income tax credits allocated for
2010, an approved income tax credit:
1.Must be claimed on a timely filed original income
tax return, including extensions.
2.Must be claimed in five equal installments as
provided in section 431083.01 or 431164.01.
H.The authority shall establish a process for
qualifying and preapproving applicants for the tax incentives.The
authority shall not preapprove an applicant as qualifying for tax incentives
under this section for taxable years beginning from and after December 31,
2019. Preapproval is based on:
1.Priority placement established by the date that
the applicant files its initial application with the authority.
2.The availability of income tax credit capacity
under the dollar limit prescribed by subsection J of this section.
I.Within thirty days after receiving a complete and
correct application, the authority shall review the application to determine
whether the applicant satisfies all of the criteria prescribed by this section
and either preapprove the project as qualifying for the purposes of the tax
incentives or provide reasons for its denial.The authority shall
send copies of the preapproval to the department of revenue and the applicable
county assessor.
J.The authority shall not preapprove income tax
credits under this section and section 411512 that combined would exceed
seventy million dollars in any calendar year, except as provided by this
subsection and subsection K of this section. The authority shall not
preapprove income tax credits under this section for any one taxpayer in excess
of thirty million dollars in any calendar year.A preapproved amount
applies against the dollar limit for the year in which the application was
submitted regardless of whether the initial preapproval period extends into the
following year or years. If, at the end of any year, an unused balance occurs
under the dollar limit prescribed by this subsection:
1.The balance shall be allocated to businesses that
successfully appeal the denial of approval under this section or section 411512.
Any amount of income tax credits due to successful appeals that are not paid
from an unused balance at the end of any year shall be paid against the dollar
limit in the following year.
2.Any remaining unused balance accruing through
December 31, 2011 shall be reallocated for the purposes of this section and
section 411512 in the following year.
3.Any remaining unused balance accruing in 2012 and
thereafter lapses and shall not be reallocated in the following year.
K.The authority shall reallocate the amount of
income tax credits that are voluntarily relinquished under subsection L of this
section, that lapse under subsection M of this section or that lapse under
subsection P of this section. The reallocation shall be to other businesses
that applied under this section or section 411512 in the original credit
year based on priority placement.Once reallocated, the amount of
the credit applies against the dollar limit of the original credit year
regardless of the year in which the reallocation occurs.
L.A taxpayer may voluntarily relinquish unused
credit amounts.
M.Preapproval under this section lapses, the
application is void and the amount of the preapproved income tax credits does
not apply against the dollar limit prescribed by subsection J of this section
if, within twelve months after preapproval, the renewable energy business fails
to provide to the authority documentation of its expenditure of two hundred
fifty thousand dollars in qualifying investment or, if the period over which
the qualifying investment will be made exceeds twelve months, documentation of
additional expenditures as required in this subsection for each twelve month
period.
N.Beginning in 2010, after October 31 of each year,
if the authority has preapproved the maximum calendar year income tax credit
amount pursuant to subsection J of this section, the authority may accept
initial applications for the next calendar year, but the preapproval of any
application pursuant to this subsection shall not be effective before the first
business day of the following calendar year.
O.Before an applicant applies for postapproval
under subsection P of this section, the applicant must enter into a written
managed review agreement with the chief executive officer of the authority that
establishes the requirements of a managed review to be conducted under this
subsection at the applicant's expense. The managed review must be conducted by
a certified public accountant who is selected by the applicant, who is licensed
in this state or who has a limited
reciprocity privilege pursuant to section 32725 and who is
approved by the chief executive officer.The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with shall
not regularly perform services for the applicant or its affiliates. The
managed review shall include an analysis of the applicant's invoices, checks,
accounting records and other documents and information to verify its base
investment and other requirements prescribed by section 4212006, 431083.01
or 431164.01 to confirm the amount of credit or property tax
incentive.The certified public accountant shall furnish written
findings of the managed review to the chief executive officer. The chief executive
officer shall review the findings and may examine records and perform other
reviews that the chief executive officer considers necessary to verify that the
managed review substantially conforms to the terms of the managed review
agreement.The chief executive officer shall accept or reject the
findings of the managed review. If the chief executive officer rejects all or
part of the managed review, the chief executive officer shall provide written
reasons for the rejection.
P.When the renewable energy operation begins
operations, a renewable energy business that was preapproved for income tax
credits under this section shall apply to the authority in writing for
postapproval of the credits and submit documentation certifying the total
amount and dates of the qualifying investments and identifying the fixed
capital assets associated with the renewable energy operation incurred from and
after September 30, 2009 through the date of application for
postapproval.From and after December 31, 2009, the authority shall
provide postapproval to a renewable energy business that it has met the
eligibility requirements of this section and shall notify the department of
revenue that the renewable energy business may claim the tax credits pursuant
to section 431083.01 or 431164.01. If the amount of qualifying
investment actually spent is less than the amount preapproved for income tax
credits, the preapproved amount not incurred lapses and does not apply against
the dollar limit prescribed by subsection J of this section for that
year.The authority shall not allow a credit under section 431083.01
or 431164.01 that exceeds the amount of the postapproval for the project
under this subsection. For the purposes of this subsection, "begins
operations" means:
1.A headquarters facility opens for public
business.
2.A manufacturing facility begins producing
commercial quantities of usable products.
Q.The authority may rescind the business'
postapproval if the business no longer meets the terms and conditions required
for qualifying for the tax incentives.The authority may give
special consideration, or allow temporary exemption from recapture of tax
benefits, in the case of extraordinary hardship due to factors beyond the
control of the qualifying business.
R.If the authority rescinds an applicant's
preapproval or postapproval under subsection Q of this section, it shall notify
the department of revenue and the county assessor of the action and the
conditions of noncompliance.If the department of revenue obtains
information indicating a possible failure to qualify and comply, it shall
provide that information to the authority. The department of revenue may
require the business to file appropriate amended tax returns reflecting any
recapture of income tax credits under section 431083.01 or 431164.01.
S.Preapproval and postapproval of a business for
the purposes of tax incentives under this section do not constitute or imply
compliance with any other provision of law or any regulatory rule, order,
procedure, permit or other measure required by law.To maintain
qualification for tax incentives under this section, a business must separately
comply with all environmental, employment and other regulatory measures.
T.For five years after postapproval for tax incentives
under this section, in any action involving the liquidation of the business
assets or relocation out of state, this state claims the position of a secured
creditor of the business in the amount of income tax credits and property tax
incentives the business received pursuant to section 4212006, 431083.01
or 431164.01.
U.Any information gathered from a renewable energy
business for the purposes of this section is considered to be confidential
taxpayer information and shall be disclosed only as provided in section 422003,
subsection B, paragraph 12, except that the authority shall publish the
following information in its annual report:
1.The name of each renewable energy business and
the amount of income tax credits preapproved for each qualifying investment.
2.The amount of credits postapproved with respect
to each qualifying investment.
V.The authority shall:
1.Keep annual records of the information provided
on applications for renewable energy businesses.These records shall
reflect a percentage comparison of the annual amount of monies exempted or
credited to qualifying renewable energy businesses to the estimated amount of
monies spent in this state in the form of qualifying investments.
2.Maintain annual data on growth in this state of
renewable energy businesses and industry employment and wages.
3.Not later than April 30 of each year, prepare and
publish a report summarizing the information collected pursuant to this
subsection.The authority shall make copies of the annual report
available to the public on request.
W.The authority shall adopt rules and prescribe
forms and procedures as necessary for the purposes of this
section.The authority and the department of revenue shall
collaborate in adopting rules as necessary to avoid duplication and
inconsistencies while accomplishing the intent and purposes of this section.
X.For the purposes of this section:
1."Capital investment" means an
expenditure to acquire, lease or improve property that is used in operating a
business, including land, buildings, machinery and fixtures.
2."Headquarters" means a principal
central administrative office where primary headquarters related functions and
services are performed, including financial, personnel, administrative, legal,
planning and similar business functions.
3."Manufacturing" means fabricating,
producing or manufacturing raw or prepared materials into usable products,
imparting new forms, qualities, properties and
combinations.Manufacturing does not include generating electricity
for off-site consumption.
4."Primarily engaged" means that more
than fifty per cent percent of a company's business
activity at a particular facility directly involves renewable energy
operations, measured by revenues received, expenses incurred, square footage or
the number of individuals employed.
5."Qualifying investment" means
investment in land, buildings, machinery and fixtures for expansion of an
existing renewable energy operation or establishment of a new renewable energy
operation in this state after September 30, 2009. Qualifying investment does
not include relocating an existing renewable energy operation in this state to
another location in this state without additional capital investment of at
least two hundred fifty thousand dollars.
6."Qualifying renewable energy operation"
means the facility where a qualifying investment was made.
7."Renewable energy" means usable energy,
including electricity, fuels, gas and heat, produced through the conversion of
energy provided by sunlight, water, wind, geothermal, heat, biomass, biogas,
landfill gas or other nonfossil renewable resource.
8."Renewable energy business" means a
person primarily engaged in the business of renewable energy manufacturing
operations or renewable energy headquarters operations.
9."Renewable energy operations" are
limited to manufacturers of, and headquarters for, systems and components that
are used or useful in manufacturing renewable energy equipment for the
generation, storage, testing and research and development, transmission or
distribution of electricity from renewable resources, including specialized
crates necessary to package the renewable energy equipment manufactured at the
qualifying renewable energy operation.
10."Renewable energy resource" means a
resource that is replaced by natural and assisted processes at a rate that is
comparable to or faster than the rate of natural depletion and consumption by
humans. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 41-1512, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1512.Qualified facility income tax credits; qualification;
definitions
A.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2012, income tax credits are allowed for expanding or locating a
qualified facility in this state pursuant to sections 431083.03 and 431164.04.
Only capital investments in a qualified facility that are made on or after July
1, 2012 are included in the computation of the credit.
B.To be eligible for the income tax credits, a
taxpayer must apply to the authority, on a form prescribed by the authority,
for preapproval of the business as qualifying for the credits.The
application must include:
1.The applicant's name, address, telephone number
and federal taxpayer identification number or numbers.
2.The name, address, telephone number and e-mail
address of a contact person for the applicant.
3.The address of the site where the qualified
facility will be located.
4.A detailed description of the qualified facility
and fixed capital assets.
5.An estimate of the capital investment and number
of employment positions at the qualified facility, including:
(a)A schedule of qualifying investments.
(b)A list of full-time employment positions, the
estimated number of employees to be hired for the positions each year during
the first five years of operation and the annual wages for each position,
calculated without employee-related benefits.
6.A nonrefundable processing fee in an amount
determined by the authority.
7.Other information as required by the authority to
determine eligibility for the income tax credits and the amount of income tax
credits, as prescribed by this section.
8.An affirmation, signed by an authorized executive
representing the business, that the applicant:
(a)Agrees to furnish records of expenditures for
qualifying investments to the authority on request.
(b)Will continue in business at the qualified
facility for five full calendar years after postapproval for the credit, other
than for reasons beyond the control of the applicant.
(c)Agrees to furnish to the authority information
regarding the amount of income tax credits claimed each year.
(d)Authorizes the department of revenue to provide
tax information to the authority pursuant to section 42-2003 for the purpose of
determining any inconsistency in information furnished by the applicant.
(e)Agrees to allow site visits and audits to verify
the applicant's continuing qualification and the accuracy of information
submitted to the authority.
(f)Consents to the adjustment or recapture of any
amount of income tax credit due to noncompliance with this section.
9.Letters of good standing from the department of
revenue stating that the applicant is not delinquent in the payment of taxes.
C.The applicant may qualify for the income tax
credits pursuant to section 431083.03 or 431164.04, as
applicable, if:
1.The applicant makes new capital investment in
this state after June 30, 2012 in a qualified facility that is completed in a
taxable year beginning from and after December 31, 2012.
2.At least fifty-one per cent percent of the net new full-time employment positions at
the qualified facility pay a wage that equals or exceeds one hundred twenty-five
per cent percent of the median annual wage in this
state, as determined by the most recent annual Arizona commerce authority
occupational wage and employment estimates issued before the preapproval is
issued pursuant to subsection I of this section.
3.All net new full-time employment positions
include health insurance coverage for the employees for which the applicant
pays at least eighty per cent
percent of the premium or
membership cost.
D.Final eligibility for an income tax credit is
subject to any additional requirements prescribed by section 431083.03
or 431164.04, as applicable.
E.An applicant may separately apply and qualify
with respect to investments for separate expansions of a qualified facility.
F.The amount of the income tax credit to be
preapproved by the authority to a qualifying applicant is ten per cent percent of the lesser of:
1.The amount the applicant has projected in total
qualifying investment in the qualified facility.
2.Two hundred thousand dollars for each net new
full-time employment position projected by the applicant at a qualified
facility.
G.Beginning with
income tax credits allocated for 2013, an approved credit:
1.Must be claimed on
a timely filed original income tax return, including extensions.
2.Must be claimed in five equal installments as
provided by section 431083.03 or 431164.04.
H.The authority shall establish a process for
qualifying and preapproving applicants for the income tax credits. The
authority shall not preapprove applicants as qualifying for credits under this
section for any taxable year beginning from and after December 31, 2019.
Preapproval is based on:
1.Priority placement established by the date that
the applicant files its initial application with the authority.
2.The availability of income tax credit capacity
under the dollar limit prescribed by section 411511, subsection J.
I.Within thirty days after receiving a complete and
correct application, the authority shall review the application to determine
whether the applicant satisfies all of the criteria prescribed by this section
and either preapprove the project as qualifying for the purposes of an income
tax credit or provide reasons for its denial. The authority shall send copies
of each preapproval to the department of revenue.
J.The authority shall not preapprove income tax
credits under this section and section 411511 that combined would exceed
the limits prescribed by section 411511, subsection J. A preapproved
amount applies against the dollar limit for the year in which the application
was submitted regardless of whether the initial preapproval period extends into
the following year or years.A business shall not be preapproved for
credits under both this section and section 411511 for the same capital
investment. The authority shall not preapprove income tax credits under this
section for any taxpayer in excess of thirty million dollars in any calendar
year.
K.The authority shall reallocate the amount of
income tax credits that are voluntarily relinquished under subsection L of this
section, that lapse under subsection M of this section or that lapse under
subsection P of this section.The reallocation shall be to other
businesses that applied under this section or section 411511 in the
original credit year based on priority placement.Once reallocated,
the amount of the credit applies against the dollar limit of the original
credit year regardless of the year in which the reallocation occurs.
L.A taxpayer may voluntarily relinquish unused credit
amounts in writing to the authority.
M.Preapproval under this section lapses, the
application is void and the amount of the preapproved income tax credits does
not apply against the dollar limit prescribed by section 411511,
subsection J if, within twelve months after preapproval, the business fails to
provide to the authority documentation of its expenditure of two hundred fifty
thousand dollars in qualifying investment or, if the period over which the
qualifying investment will be made exceeds twelve months, documentation of
additional expenditures as required in this subsection for each twelvemonth
period.
N.After October 31 of each year, if the authority
has preapproved the maximum calendar year income tax credit amount pursuant to
section 411511, subsection J, the authority may accept initial
applications for the next calendar year, but the preapproval of any application
pursuant to this subsection shall not be effective before the first business
day of the following calendar year.
O.Before an applicant applies for postapproval
under subsection P of this section, the applicant must enter into a written
managed review agreement with the chief executive officer of the authority that
establishes the requirements of a managed review to be conducted under this
subsection at the applicant's expense. The managed review must be conducted by
a certified public accountant who is selected by the applicant, who is licensed
in this state or who has a limited
reciprocity privilege pursuant to section 32725 and who is
approved by the chief executive officer.The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with
shall not regularly perform services for the applicant or its affiliates. The
managed review shall include an analysis of the applicant's invoices, checks,
accounting records and other documents and information to verify its base
investment and other requirements prescribed by section 431083.03 or 431164.04
to confirm the amount of credit.The certified public accountant
shall furnish written findings of the managed review to the chief executive
officer.The chief executive officer shall review the findings and
may examine records and perform other reviews that the chief executive officer
considers necessary to verify that the managed review substantially conforms to
the terms of the managed review agreement.The chief executive
officer shall accept or reject the findings of the managed
review.If the chief executive officer rejects all or part of the
managed review, the chief executive officer shall provide written reasons for
the rejection.
P.When the qualified facility begins operations, a
business that was preapproved for income tax credits under this section shall
apply to the authority in writing for postapproval of the credits and submit
documentation certifying the total amount and dates of the qualifying
investments and identifying the fixed capital assets associated with the
qualified facility incurred after June 30, 2012 through the date of application
for postapproval.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2012, the authority shall provide postapproval to a business that
has met the eligibility requirements of this section and shall notify the
department of revenue that the business may claim an income tax credit pursuant
to section 431083.03 or 431164.04.If the amount of
qualifying investment actually spent is less than the amount preapproved for
income tax credits, the preapproved amount not incurred lapses and does not apply
against the dollar limit prescribed by section 41-1511, subsection J for that
year.The department of revenue shall not allow an income tax credit
under section 431083.03 or 431164.04 that exceeds the amount of
the postapproval for the project under this subsection. For the purposes of
this subsection, "begins operations" means the qualified facility
opens for public business.
Q.The authority may rescind an applicant's
postapproval if the business no longer meets the terms and conditions required
for qualifying for the credit. The authority may give special consideration,
or allow temporary exemption from recapture of the credit, in the case of
extraordinary hardship due to factors beyond the control of the qualifying
business.
R.If the authority rescinds an applicant's
preapproval or postapproval under subsection Q of this section, it shall notify
the department of revenue of the action and the conditions of noncompliance.
If the department of revenue obtains information indicating a possible failure
to qualify and comply, it shall provide that information to the authority. The
department of revenue may require the business to file appropriate amended tax
returns reflecting any recapture of the credit under section 431083.03
or 431164.04.
S.Preapproval and postapproval of an applicant for
the purposes of income tax credits under this section do not constitute or
imply compliance with any other provision of law or any regulatory rule, order,
procedure, permit or other measure required by law.To maintain
qualification for a credit under this section, a business must separately
comply with all environmental, employment and other regulatory measures.
T.For five years after postapproval of an income
tax credit under this section, in any action involving the liquidation of the
business assets or relocation out of state, this state claims the position of a
secured creditor of the business in the amount of the credit the business
received pursuant to section 431083.03 or 431164.04. The transfer
of part or all of a company's assets that are then leased back by the company
is not considered a liquidation under this section.
U.Any information gathered from a business for the
purposes of this section is considered to be confidential taxpayer information
and shall be disclosed only as provided in section 422003, subsection B,
paragraph 12, except that the authority shall publish the following information
in its annual report:
1.The name of each business and the amount of
income tax credits preapproved for each qualifying investment.
2.The amount of income tax credits postapproved
with respect to each qualifying investment.
V.The authority shall:
1.Keep annual records of the information provided
on applications for qualified facilities. These records shall reflect a
percentage comparison of the annual amount of monies credited to qualified
facilities to the estimated amount of monies spent in this state in the form of
qualifying investments.
2.Maintain annual data on growth in this state of
qualified facilities and related employment and wages.
3.Not later than April 30 following each calendar
year, prepare and publish a report summarizing the information collected
pursuant to this subsection. The authority shall make copies of the annual
report available to the public on request.
W.The authority shall adopt rules and prescribe
forms and procedures as necessary for the purposes of this
section.The authority and the department of revenue shall
collaborate in adopting rules as necessary to avoid duplication and
inconsistencies while accomplishing the intent and purposes of this section.
X.For the purposes of this section:
1."Capital investment" means an
expenditure to acquire, lease or improve property that is used in operating a
business, including land, buildings, machinery, equipment and fixtures.
2."Facility" means a single parcel or
contiguous parcels of owned or leased land in this state, the structures and
personal property contained on the land or any part of the structures occupied
by the owner. Parcels that are separated only by a public thoroughfare or
right-of-way are considered to be contiguous.
3."Headquarters" means a principal
central administrative office where primary headquarters related functions and
services are performed, including financial, personnel, administrative, legal,
planning and similar business functions.
4."Manufacturing" means fabricating,
producing or manufacturing raw or prepared materials into usable products,
imparting new forms, qualities, properties and
combinations.Manufacturing does not include generating electricity.
5."Qualified facility" means a facility
in this state that devotes at least eighty per cent percent of the property and payroll at the facility to one
or more of the following:
(a)Qualified manufacturing.
(b)Qualified headquarters.
(c)Qualified research.
6."Qualified headquarters" means a
global, national or regional headquarters for a taxpayer that is involved in
manufacturing and that derives at least sixtyfive per cent percent of its revenue from out-of-state sales.
7."Qualified manufacturing" means
manufacturing tangible products in this state if at least sixtyfive per cent percent of the product will be sold outof-state.
8."Qualified research" has the same
meaning prescribed by section 41(d) of the
internal revenue code, as defined by section 43105, except that the
research must be conducted by a taxpayer involved in manufacturing that derives
at least sixtyfive per cent
percent of its revenue
from out-of-state sales.
9."Qualifying investment" means
investment in land, buildings, machinery, equipment and fixtures for expansion
of an existing qualified facility or establishment of a new qualified facility
in this state after June 30, 2012 for a facility completed in a taxable year
beginning from and after December 31, 2012. Qualifying investment does not
include relocating an existing qualified facility in this state to another
location in this state without additional capital investment of at least two
hundred fifty thousand dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 43-1507, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1507.Audits and financial reviews
A.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received one million dollars or more in total
donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial audit of
the organization.The audit must be conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and must evaluate the organization's
compliance with section 431503, subsection B, paragraph 1. The audit
must be conducted by an independent certified public accountant who is licensed in this state or who has a limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to
section 32725.The certified public accountant
and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with shall be
independent with respect to the organization, its officers and directors,
services performed and all other independent relationships prescribed by
generally accepted auditing standards.
B.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received less than one million dollars in
total donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial
review of the organization. The review must be conducted in accordance with
standards for accounting and review services and must evaluate the
organization's compliance with the fiscal requirements of this article. The
review must be conducted by an independent certified public accountant who is licensed in this state or who has a limited reciprocity privilege
pursuant to section 32725.The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with
shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships
prescribed by generally accepted auditing standards.
C.Within five days after receiving the audit or
financial review, the school tuition organization shall file a signed copy of
the audit or financial review with the department.
D.The school tuition organization shall pay the
fees and costs of the certified public accountant under this section from the
organization's operating monies. The fees and costs shall be excluded from the
calculation of total revenues spent on scholarships and tuition grants. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 43-1605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1605.Audits and financial reviews
A.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received one million dollars or more in total
donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial audit of
the organization. The audit must be conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and must evaluate the organization's compliance
with section 431603, subsection B, paragraph 1. The audit must be
conducted by an independent certified public accountant who is licensed in this state or who has a limited reciprocity privilege pursuant to
section 32725. The certified public accountant and the
firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with shall be independent
with respect to the organization, its officers and directors, services
performed and all other independent relationships prescribed by generally
accepted auditing standards.
B.On or before September 30 of each year, each
school tuition organization that received less than one million dollars in
total donations in the previous fiscal year shall provide for a financial
review of the organization. The review must be conducted in accordance with
standards for accounting and review services and must evaluate the
organization's compliance with the fiscal requirements of this article. The
review must be conducted by an independent certified public accountant who is licensed in this state or who has a limited reciprocity privilege
pursuant to section 32725.The certified public
accountant and the firm the certified public accountant is affiliated with
shall be independent with respect to the organization, its officers and
directors, services performed and all other independent relationships
prescribed by generally accepted auditing standards.
C.Within five days after receiving the audit or
financial review the school tuition organization shall file a signed copy of
the audit or financial review with the department.
D.The school tuition organization shall pay the
fees and costs of the certified public accountant under this section from the
organization's operating monies. The fees and costs shall be excluded from the
calculation of total revenues spent on scholarships and tuition grants. END_STATUTE

