







REFERENCE TITLE: stalking; offense; definitions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2419









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending section
132923, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to stalking.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2923, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2923.Stalking; classification; definitions
A.A person commits stalking if the person
intentionally or knowingly engages in a course of conduct that is directed
toward another person and if that conduct either causes the
victim to:
1.Would cause
a reasonable person to fear for the person's safety or the safety of that
person's immediate family member and that person in fact fears for the person's
safety or the safety of that person's immediate family member.
2.Would cause
a reasonable person to fear death of that person or that person's immediate
family member and that person in fact fears death of that person or that
person's immediate family member.
1.suffer
emotional distress or reasonably fear that either:
(a)the victim's property will be
damaged or destroyed.
(b)Any of the following will be
physically injured:
(i)the victim.
(ii)the victim's family member,
domestic animal or livestock.
(iii)a person with whom the victim
has or has previously had a romantic or sexual relationship.
(iv)a person who regularly resides
in the victim's household or has resided in the victim's household within the
six months before the last conduct occurred.
2.Reasonably
fear death or the death of any of the following:
(a)the victim's family member,
domestic animal or livestock.
(b)A person with whom the victim
has or has previously had a romantic or sexual relationship.
(c)a person who regularly resides
in the victim's household or has resided in the victim's household within the six
months before the last conduct occurred.
B.Stalking under subsection A, paragraph 1 of this
section is a class 5 felony.Stalking under subsection A, paragraph
2 of this section is a class 3 felony.
C.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Course of
conduct":
(a)Means any
of the following directly
or indirectly, in person or through one or more third persons or by any other
means, to do any of the following on more than one occasion:
(i)Maintaining
maintain visual or
physical proximity to a specific person or directing direct verbal, written or other threats, whether express
or implied, to a specific person on two
or more occasions over a period of time, however short. 
(ii)Using Use any electronic, digital or
global positioning system device to surveil a specific person or a specific
person's internet or wireless activity continuously for twelve hours or more or on two or more
occasions over a period of time, however short, without authorization.
(iii)Communicate, or cause to be
communicated, words, images or language by or through the use of electronic
mail or an electronic communication that is directed at a specific person
without authorization and without a legitimate purpose.
(b)Does not include constitutionally protected
activity
or other activity authorized by law, the other person, the other
person's authorized representative or if the other person is a minor, the
minor's parent or guardian.
2."Immediate
family member" means a spouse, parent, child or sibling or any other
person who regularly resides in a person's household or resided in a person's
household within the past six months.
2."Emotional
distress" means significant mental suffering or distress that may, but
does not have to, require medical or other professional treatment or
counseling.

