







REFERENCE TITLE: motor vehicle insurance; nonrenewal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2445









Introduced by
Representatives
  Livingston, Coleman, Fann, Leach, Stevens, Thorpe: Borrelli, Bowers, Boyer,
  Campbell, Finchem, Mesnard, Norgaard, Shope, Weninger





AN ACT

Amending sections
201631, 201632 and 201633, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to motor vehicle insurance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The article heading of title 20, chapter 6, article 11, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is changed from "CANCELLATION OR NON-RENEWAL OF
AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE" to "CANCELLATION
OR NONRENEWAL OF motor vehicle INSURANCE".
Sec.2.Section 20-1631, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1631.Definition of motor vehicle; cancellation of or failure to
renew coverage; limitations; limitation of liability; exceptions; insurance
producers; definitions
A.In this article, unless the context otherwise
requires, "motor vehicle" means a licensed land, motordriven
vehicle but does not mean:
1.A private passenger or station wagon type vehicle
used as a public or livery conveyance or rented to others.
2.Any other fourwheel motor vehicle of a
load capacity of fifteen hundred pounds or less that is used in the business of
transporting passengers for hire, used in business primarily to transport
property or equipment, used as a public or livery conveyance or rented to
others.
3.Any motor vehicle with a load capacity of more
than fifteen hundred pounds.
4.From and after February 29, 2016, a vehicle that
otherwise qualifies as a motor vehicle under this subsection but only while the
driver of the vehicle is logged in to a transportation network company's
digital network or software application to be a driver or is providing
transportation network services, unless expressly covered by the private
passenger policy.
B.A motor vehicle used as a public or livery
conveyance or rented to others does not include a motor vehicle used in the
course of volunteer work for a taxexempt organization as described in
section 431201, subsection A, paragraph 4.
C.An insurer shall not cancel or refuse to renew a
motor vehicle insurance policy solely because of the location of residence,
age, race, color, religion, sex, national origin or ancestry of anyone who is
an insured. , except that an insurer may refuse to renew
a motor vehicle insurance policy if a named insured establishes a primary
residence in a state other than Arizona.
D.An insurer shall not issue a motor vehicle
insurance policy in this state unless the cancellation and renewal conditions
of the policy or the endorsement on the policy includes the limitations
required by this section. After a policy issued in this state has been in
effect for sixty days, or if the policy is a renewal, effective immediately,
the company shall not exercise its right to cancel or fail to renew the insurance afforded under
the policy unless:
1.The named insured fails to discharge when due any
of the obligations of the named insured in connection with the payment of
premium for this policy or any installment of the premium.
2.The insurance was obtained through fraudulent
misrepresentation.
3.The named insured, any person who resides in the
same household as the named insured and customarily operates a motor vehicle
insured under the policy or any other person who regularly and frequently
operates a motor vehicle insured under the policy:
(a)Has had the person's driver license suspended or
revoked during the policy period.
(b)Develops a permanent disability, either
physically or mentally, and such individual does not produce a certificate from
a physician or a registered nurse practitioner testifying to such person's
ability to operate a motor vehicle.
(c)Is or has been convicted during the thirtysix
months immediately preceding the effective date of the policy or during the
policy period of:
(i)Criminal negligence resulting in death, homicide
or assault and arising out of the operation of a motor vehicle.
(ii)Operating a motor vehicle while in an
intoxicated condition or while under the influence of drugs.
(iii)Leaving the scene of an accident.
(iv)Making false statements in an application for a
driver license.
(v)Reckless driving.
4.The insurer is placed in rehabilitation or
receivership by the insurance supervisory official in its state of domicile or
by a court of competent jurisdiction or the director has suspended the
insurer's certificate of authority based on its financially hazardous
condition.
5.The named insured, any person who resides in the
same household as the named insured and customarily operates a motor vehicle
insured under the policy or any other person who regularly and frequently
operates a motor vehicle insured under the policy uses a motor vehicle rated or
insured under the policy as a private passenger motor vehicle regularly and
frequently for commercial purposes.
6.From and after February 29, 2016, the named
insured, any person who resides in the same household as the named insured and
who customarily operates a motor vehicle insured under the policy or any other
person who regularly and frequently operates a motor vehicle insured under the
policy uses a motor vehicle rated or insured under the policy to provide
transportation network services unless, while the driver is logged in to the
transportation network company's digital network or software application to be
a driver or is providing transportation network services, the named insured
either:
(a)Has procured an endorsement to the private
passenger policy that expressly provides such coverage.
(b)Is covered by a motor vehicle liability
insurance policy issued by another insurer expressly providing such coverage.
7.The director determines that the continuation of
the policy would place the insurer in violation of the laws of this state or
would jeopardize the solvency of the insurer.
8.If the
insured and the insured's family members are eligible for insurance based
solely on the insured's employment with the insurer, employment of the insured
with that insurer is terminated and the insurer exercises its right to nonrenew
the policy within twelve months following the insured's termination of
employment.
E.In addition
to the authorization to fail to renew insurance provided by subsection D of
this section, an insurer may exercise its right to fail to renew a motor
vehicle insurance policy pursuant to this subsection. An insurer may nonrenew a motor vehicle
insurance policy if the insurer complies with the requirements of this
article. An insurer shall provide notice of the a
nonrenewal to the named insured as prescribed by section 201632 at least fortyfive days before the
nonrenewal.A named insured who disputes the
nonrenewal of the named insured's policy may file an objection with the
director pursuant to section 201633. An insurer shall not fail to renew more than onehalf
of one percent of its policies annually pursuant to this
subsection.An insurer may fail to renew a motor vehicle insurance
policy if the named insured, any person who resides in the same household as
the named insured and who customarily operates a motor vehicle insured under
the policy or any other person who regularly and frequently operates a motor
vehicle insured under the policy has had at any time during the thirtysix
months immediately before the notice of nonrenewal three or more atfault
accidents under any motor vehicle insurance policy issued by this insurer in
which the property damage paid by the insurer for each accident that occurred
prior to January 1, 2000 is more than one thousand eight hundred
dollars.For accidents occurring on or after January 1, 2000, the
department of insurance shall annually adjust and publish, to the nearest ten
dollars, the threshold amount of property damages in this subsection by the
percentage change in the all items component of the consumer price index for
all urban consumers of the United States department of labor, bureau of labor
statistics.The insurer shall not exercise its right to fail to
renew the insurance under this subsection unless the same individual has had
all the accidents that make the policy subject to nonrenewal under this
subsection. The insurer shall not exercise its right to fail to renew a motor
vehicle insurance policy pursuant to this subsection due to the accident record
of the named insured if the named insured has been insured for standard
automobile bodily injury coverage for at least ten consecutive years with the
same insurer prior to the most recent accident that makes the policy subject to
nonrenewal under this subsection.For the purposes of this
subsection, "atfault" means the insured is at least fifty
percent responsible for the accident.
F.The company shall not cancel or fail to renew the insurance when a person
other than the named insured has violated subsection D, paragraph 3 of this section,
or fail to renew the insurance pursuant
to subsection E of this section due to the driving record of an individual
other than the named insured, if the named insured in writing
agrees to exclude as insured the person by name when operating a motor vehicle
and further agrees to exclude coverage to the named insured for any negligence
that may be imputed by law to the named insured arising out of the maintenance,
operation or use of a motor vehicle by the excluded person. The written
agreement that excludes coverage under a policy for a named individual is
effective for each renewal of the policy by the insurer and remains in effect
until the insurer agrees in writing to provide coverage for the named
individual who was previously excluded from coverage.
G.This article does not apply to any policy that
has been in effect less than sixty days at the time notice of cancellation is
mailed or delivered by the insurer unless the policy is a renewal policy, or to
policies:
1.Insuring any motor vehicle other than a private
passenger motor vehicle as defined in section 20117.
2.Insuring the motor vehicle hazard of garages,
motor vehicle sales agencies, repair shops, service stations or public parking
places.
3.Providing insurance only on an excess basis.
H.If a consumer purchases motor vehicle insurance
coverage from an insurance producer licensed in this state, the insurance
producer that owns the policy expiration shall remain the insurance producer of
record for that insured.In the event the insurer terminates the
insurance producer's contract, the insurance producer shall continue to provide
customary services to the insured. The insurer shall provide the insurance
producer with a minimum degree of authority necessary to provide customary
services to the insured and shall provide the same level of compensation for
these services that were in effect prior to the termination of the insurance
producer contract.
I.Subsection H of this section shall not apply if
one or more of the following conditions exist:
1.The insurance producer of record has had its
license suspended or revoked by the department.
2.The insurance producer of record is indebted to
the insurer.
3.The insured has supplied the insurer with a
written request that its insurance producer of record be changed to another
insurance producer of the insurer.
4.The insurance producer of record has authorized
transfer of this account to another licensed insurance producer of the insurer.
5.The director has determined after a public hearing
that continuation of this relationship is not in the best interest of the
public.
6.The insurance producer of record is under an
exclusive contract or contract requiring the insurance producer to submit all
eligible business to an insurer or group of insurers under a common management.
J.Subsection H of this section shall not apply to
any transaction in which the expiration of the policies is owned by the
insurer.
K.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, if an insurer chooses to renew a policy, the
issuance at renewal of revised policy provisions to modify an existing policy
by adding coverages or policy provisions, modifying coverages or policy
provisions, or
eliminating coverages or policy provisions is not a nonrenewal or cancellation
of the policy if the modification of a basic coverage does not eliminate the
essential benefit of that basic coverage. If the modification of the basic
coverage eliminates the essential benefit of the basic coverage, the director
shall order the insurer to remove the modification from the policy. This
subsection does not allow the insurer, without the written consent of the
insured, to eliminate the basic coverages of the policy or to reduce the
monetary limits of any of the basic coverages of the policy that were selected
and agreed on.If an insurer
chooses to renew a policy, this subsection does not limit a
policyholder from continuing to renew uninsured or underinsured motorist
coverage pursuant to section 20259.01.For the purposes of
this subsection, "basic coverage" means any of the following:
1.Bodily injury coverage.
2.Property damage coverage.
3.Uninsured motorist coverage.
4.Underinsured motorist coverage.
5.Medical payments coverage.
6.Comprehensive coverage.
7.Collision coverage.
L.For the purposes of this section, fail to renew
or nonrenewal does not include the issuance and delivery of a new policy within
the same insurer or an insurer under the same ownership or management as the
original insurer as provided in this subsection. An insurer may transfer up to one percent any of its policies to an affiliated insurer. within one calendar year if under a policy to be transferred
one or more of the insureds that are insured under the policy have individually
within the past thirtysix months had two or more atfault
accidents under any motor vehicle insurance policy issued by this insurer in
which the property damage paid by the insurer for each accident exceeded one
thousand five hundred dollars or individually have had three or more moving
violations. Moving violations for which an insured completes an approved
traffic school program shall not be considered as a moving violation under this
section. A company shall not transfer a policy if a named insured agrees in
writing to exclude as an insured a person or persons who each individually meet
the criteria for transfer pursuant to this subsection and further agrees to
exclude coverage for any negligence that may be imputed by law to the named
insured arising out of the maintenance, operation or use of a motor vehicle by
such excluded person or persons.An insurer shall transfer only
those individuals responsible for the atfault accidents or moving
violations, and the excluded or transferred insured's driving record shall not
be used in determining rates, surcharges or premiums for the nonexcluded or
nontransferred insured. The one percent limit set forth in this subsection
shall not apply to transfers of policies from the original insurer to another
insurer under the same ownership or management as the original insurer if the
rates charged by the other insurer are the same as or lower than the rates
charged by the original insurer. No insurer shall transfer
policyholders because of their location of residence, age, race, color, religion,
sex, national origin or ancestry.Transfers by an insurer pursuant
to this subsection shall not be construed to permit a new unrestricted sixty day sixty-day period for cancellation or
nonrenewal.
M.Except as provided in this subsection, an insurer
shall not refuse to renew a policy until after August 31, 1998, based on an
insured's failure to maintain membership in a bona fide association, until both
the insurer and bona fide association have complied with this subsection and
shall not refuse to renew any coverage continuously in effect before September
1, 1998, subject to all the following:
1.In addition to any other reason provided in this
section, an insurer may refuse to renew an insurance policy issued pursuant to
this article if all of the following conditions apply:
(a)The insurer clearly discloses to the applicant
and the insured in the application for insurance and insurance policy that both
the payment of dues and current membership in the bona fide association are
prerequisites to obtaining or renewing the insurance.
(b)Any money paid to the bona fide association as a
membership fee:
(i)Is not used by the insurer directly or
indirectly to defray any costs or expenses in connection with the sale or
purchase of the insurance.
(ii)Is set independently of any factor used by the
insurer to make any judgment or determination about the eligibility of any
individual, including the member, an employee of a member or a dependent of a
member, to purchase or renew the insurance.
(c)The bona fide association has filed a
certification with the director verifying the eligibility of the insurer to
refuse to renew an insurance policy based on membership in the bona fide
association.
2.To qualify as a bona fide association pursuant to
this subsection, the association shall meet all of the requirements of this
paragraph.The association shall file a statement with the director
at least thirty days before the commencement of the offer or sale of insurance
as provided by this subsection verifying that the association meets the
requirements of this paragraph.The association shall update the
filing required by this paragraph at least thirty days before the effective
date of any material change in the information contained in the statement, and
shall file a separate notice with the director if the insurance described in
the statement is no longer available through the association.The
statement shall include the following information:
(a)That the association has been in active
existence for at least five consecutive years immediately before the filing of
the statement.
(b)That the association has been formed and
maintained in good faith for purposes other than obtaining or providing
insurance and does not condition membership in the association on the purchase
of insurance.
(c)That the association has articles of
incorporation and bylaws or other similar governing documents.
(d)That the association does not condition
membership in the association or set membership fees on the eligibility of any
individual, including the member, an employee of the member or a dependent of
the member, to purchase or renew the insurance, or on any factor that the
insurer could not lawfully consider when setting rates.
(e)That the association has a relationship with a
specific insurer or insurers and identifies the insurer or insurers.
3.Membership fees collected by the bona fide
association are not premiums of the insurer that issued the coverage unless the
bona fide association:
(a)Uses any portion of the membership fees directly
or indirectly to defray any costs or expenses in connection with the sale or
purchase of the insurance.
(b)Sets or adjusts membership fees for any member
of the bona fide association based on any factor used by the insurer that
issues the insurance to make any judgment or determination about the
eligibility of any individual, including the member, an employee of the member
or a dependent of the member, to purchase or renew the insurance.
4.If the membership fees constitute premiums pursuant
to paragraph 3 of this subsection, an insurer shall not refuse to renew a
policy as otherwise permitted by this subsection.
N.An insurer may issue an endorsement to a private
passenger policy that expressly provides coverage for the provision of transportation
network services, but that endorsement may not be treated as basic coverage as
defined in subsection K of this section and any termination of the endorsement
may not be treated as a modification of basic coverage.An insurer
may terminate the endorsement allowed by this subsection by giving advance
notice of the termination.Any notice by the insurer to the
policyholder to terminate the endorsement allowed by this subsection shall be
mailed to the named insured by United States mail at least fortyfive
days before the effective date of the termination.The notice shall
include an explanation to the named insured that the further provision of
transportation network services following the effective date of the termination
may might subject the insured to cancellation or
nonrenewal of the insured's private passenger motor vehicle policy.
O.This section and section 284009 do not
create an obligation of an insurer to offer, provide or issue a policy or an
endorsement that includes coverage for any liability incurred while a
transportation network company driver is logged in to the transportation
network company's digital network or software application to be a driver or is
providing transportation network services.
P.For the purposes of this section,
"transportation network company", "transportation network
company driver" and "transportation network services" have the
same meanings prescribed in section 289551. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 20-1632, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1632.Cancellation, nonrenewal and reduction of limits for
reasons other than nonpayment of premium; notices to insured; refund of
unearned premium
A.A notice by the insurer to the policyholder of nonrenewal, cancellation or
reduction in the limits of liability or coverage for reasons other than
nonpayment of premium shall be mailed to the named insured with the insurer
obtaining proof of mail mailing by United States
certified mail, United States post office certificate of mailing or first class
mail using intelligent mail barcode or another similar tracking method used or
approved by the United States postal service at least ten days before the effective
date of the nonrenewal,
cancellation or reduction in limits of liability or coverage. ,
except that notice of nonrenewal under section 201631, subsection E
Notice of nonrenewal for reasons other
than nonpayment of premium shall be mailed at least fortyfive
days before the effective date of the nonrenewal.The A
notice under this section shall
include or be accompanied by all of the following:
1.A statement in writing of the specific facts that
constitute the reasons, consistent with section
201631 this
article, for such action by the insurer and a notice indicating
the named insured's right to complain to the director of the insurer's action
within ten days after receipt of the notice by the insured.
2.Notice of the insured's possible eligibility for
insurance through the automobile assigned risk plan, and the notice shall state
that all information included in the notice is given pursuant to this article.
3.Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this
subsection, a refund of unearned premium.For the purposes of this
paragraph, the insurer shall either mail the notice and refund of unearned
premium together at least ten days before the effective date or mail the notice
before the refund of unearned premium if both the notice and the refund of
unearned premium are mailed separately to the insured at least ten days before
the effective date. As an alternative
to mailing, an insurer may choose to refund the unearned premium by any
electronic means previously established with the customer to make and receive
premium payments for the policy.
4.In the case of a notice of cancellation or
nonrenewal of a policyholder whose premium payment is collected and remitted on
the insurer's behalf by the insurer's affiliate, the insurer shall refund any
unearned premium to the policyholder within ten days after the policy
cancellation or nonrenewal.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "affiliate" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 20481.
B.Failure of the insurer to comply with subsection
A of this section shall invalidate any cancellation, nonrenewal or reduction in
limits of liability or coverage.
C.If a premium has been financed, a refund of
unearned premium shall be returned as provided in section 61416.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 20-1633, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1633.Objections; investigation; determination
A.Any individual who believes cancellation or nonrenewal of the individual's
policy is arbitrary, capricious or otherwise in violation of this article, who believes nonrenewal is in violation of
this article or who believes notice of nonrenewal or
cancellation, or the reasons for nonrenewal or cancellation, were not given as
provided by this article may,
within ten days after receipt of notice, may file in writing an objection to the action with the
director.
B.Any insured
who believes an insurer has made an incorrect determination of fault in an
accident contributing to nonrenewal of a policy under section 201631,
subsection E, within ten days after receipt of notice of the nonrenewal under
that section, may file in writing an objection to the nonrenewal with the
director.
C. B.Upon On
receipt of a written objection pursuant to this article, the
director shall notify the insurer of receipt of the objection and of the right
of the insurer to file a written response within ten days of receipt of the
notification. The director may also order an examination of the objection or
complaint, the submission of additional information by the insured or the
insurer about the action by the insurer or the objections of the insured, or
any other procedure as the director deems appropriate or necessary. The
insurer shall pay the cost of the examination pursuant to section 20159.
Within fifteen days of receipt of the written objection by an insured the
director shall approve or disapprove the insurer's action and shall notify the
insured and insurer in writing of the director's final decision. The director
shall order an insurer that has failed to renew a policy in violation of section 201631 this article to reinstate the
policy retroactive to the effective date of the nonrenewal. Except as provided
in section 411092.08, subsection H, either party may institute
proceedings for judicial review of the director's final decision pursuant to
title 12, chapter 7, article 6. Notwithstanding any other law, if the director
decides in favor of the insured, the director may order that the decision not
be stayed pending judicial review.END_STATUTE

