







REFERENCE TITLE: personal identifiable information







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2438









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending section
44-1373, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to personal identifying
information.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1373, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1373.Restricted use of personal identifying information; civil
penalty; definitions
A.Except as otherwise specifically provided by law,
beginning on January 1, 2005, a person or entity shall not:
1.Intentionally communicate or otherwise make an
individual's social security number available to the general public.
2.Print an individual's social security number on
any card required for the individual to receive products or services provided
by the person or entity.
3.Require the transmission of an individual's
social security number over the internet unless the connection is secure or the
social security number is encrypted.
4.Require the use of an individual's social
security number to access an internet website website, unless a password or
unique personal identification number or other authentication device is also
required to access the site.
5.Print a number that the person or entity knows to
be an individual's social security number on any materials that are mailed to
the individual, unless state or federal law requires the social security number
to be on the document to be mailed. This paragraph does not prohibit the
mailing of documents that include social security numbers sent as part of an
application or enrollment process or to establish, amend or terminate an
account, contract or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the social security
number. In a transaction involving or otherwise relating to an individual, if
a person or entity receives a number from a third party, the person or entity
has no duty to inquire or otherwise determine if the number is or includes that
individual's social security number. The person or entity may print that
number on materials that are mailed to the individual, unless the person or
entity that received the number has actual knowledge that the number is or
includes the individual's social security number.This paragraph
does not prohibit the mailing to the individual of any copy or reproduction of
a document that includes a social security number if the social security number
was included on the original document before January1, 2005.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a person or entity that
before January 1, 2005 used an individual's social security number in a manner
inconsistent with subsection A of this
section may continue using that individual's social security
number in that manner on and after January 1, 2005 subject to the following
conditions:
1.The use of the social security number must be
continuous. If the use is stopped for any reason, subsection A of this section applies.
2.Beginning in 2005, the person or entity must
provide the individual with an annual written disclosure of the individual's
right to stop the use of the social security number in a manner prohibited by
subsection A of this section.
3.If the individual requests in writing, the person
or entity must stop using the social security number in a manner prohibited by
subsection A of this section
within thirty days after receiving the request. No fee or charge is allowed
for implementing the request, and the person or entity shall not deny services
to the individual because of the request.
C.This section does not prohibit the collection,
use or release of a social security number as required by the laws of this
state or the United States or for internal verification or administrative
purposes.
D.Beginning on January 1, 2005, this state or any
political subdivision of this state shall not use an individual's social security
number on state issued or political subdivision issued forms of identification.
E.This section does not prohibit an agency of this
state or a political subdivision of this state from disseminating or using the
last four numbers of an individual's social security number.
F.A government agency shall not transmit to an
individual material that contains both an individual's social security number
and bank, savings and loan association or credit union account number. This
subsection does not prohibit the transmitting of documents that include social
security and bank, savings and loan association or credit union account numbers
as a part of an application or enrollment process or to establish, amend or
terminate an account, contract or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the
social security, bank, savings and loan association or credit union account
number.
G.Except as otherwise provided by law, documents or
records that are recorded and made available on the recording entity's public web site after the effective date of this
amendment to this section
website beginning January1, 2007 shall not contain more
than five numbers that are reasonably identifiable as being part of an
individual's social security number and shall not contain an individual's:
1.Credit card, charge card or debit card numbers.
2.Retirement account numbers.
3.Savings, checking or securities entitlement
account numbers.
h.an
individual's nonsensitive personal identifying information may be transmitted
in an unencrypted form.
i.an
individual's sensitive personal identifying information may be encrypted when
the data is in transit and when the data is at rest.
H.j.Only
the attorney general or a county attorney, or both, may commence a legal action
for a violation of this section.
I.k.A
person or entity is subject to a civil penalty of up to five hundred dollars
for each act of recording that violates subsection G of this section.The civil penalty
shall not apply to a person or entity that transmits the document for recording
but has no authority for the creation of the document.
J.l.A
county agency is not subject to civil liability for any action relating to
information recorded pursuant to subsection G of this section.
K.m.For
the purposes of this section: , 
1."Individual"
means a resident of this state.
2."nonsensitive
personal identifying information" means information that both:
(a)is easily gathered from public
records, telephone or corporate directories or the internet.
(b)when disclosed could not harm
the individual whose information it is.
3."sensitive
personal identifying information":
(a)means information that when
disclosed could harm the individual whose information it is.
(b)includes biometric information,
medical information, personal identifiable financial information and unique
identifiers such as passport numbers or social security numbers. END_STATUTE

