







REFERENCE TITLE: school conference or activity leave 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2421









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Espinoza, Fernandez, Velasquez: Alston, Friese, Gonzales,
  Plumlee, Rios





AN ACT

Amending title
23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 8.1; relating to
employment practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 8.1, to read:
ARTICLE 8.1.PARENTAL LEAVE
START_STATUTE23-371.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Child" means a biological, adopted
or foster child, a stepchild or a legal ward of an employee who is enrolled in
a school in this state.
2."Employee" means a person who
performs services for hire for an employer. Employee does not include an
independent contractor.
3."Employer" means an individual,
person or any type of organization, including this state and any political
subdivision of this state, that employs at least fifty employees in this state.
4."School" means any public, private
or charter primary or secondary school. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-372.School conference or activity leave; written request;
exception; hours of conferences or activities; verification
A.An employer shall grant an employee school
conference or activity leave of up to a total of sixteen hours during any
school year, not more than four hours of which may be taken during one day, to
attend school conferences or activities related to the employee's child if all
of the following apply:
1.The conference or activity cannot be scheduled
during nonwork hours.
2.The employee has exhausted all accrued
vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory leave and any other leave that may
be granted to the employee, except sick leave and disability leave.
3.The employee has been employed by the employer
for at least the six consecutive months immediately preceding the request for
school conference or activity leave.
4.The average number of hours per week that the
employee works is equal to at least onehalf of the fulltime
equivalent positions in the employer's job classification, as defined by the
employer's personnel policies or practices or pursuant to a collective bargaining
agreement, during the six months immediately preceding the request for school
conference or activity leave.
B.The employee shall provide the employer with a
written request for school conference or activity leave at least seven days
before the date of the requested school conference or activity
leave.If the situation is an emergency, the employee shall provide
at least twentyfour hours written notice before the date of the school
conference or activity leave.
C.Before scheduling a school conference or
activity, the employee shall consult with the employer to schedule the leave so
that operations of the employer are not unduly disrupted.
D.An employer that is subject to
this article is not required to grant school conference or activity leave to an
employee if granting the leave would result in more than five percent of the
employer's work force taking school conference or activity leave at the same
time.
E.This article does not require that an employee
receive compensation for the duration of the school conference or activity
leave.
F.For regularly scheduled, nonemergency
conferences or activities, schools shall make time available for such
conferences or activities during both regular school hours and evening hours.
G.If requested by the parent or guardian of a
student at the school, a school shall provide documentation verifying that the
parent or guardian attended the school conference or activity. An employer may
request this verification and, if requested, the employee shall submit the
verification to the employer. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-373.Notification to schools; notification of school visitation
policy; notification to employers
A.The department of education shall notify each
school regarding the provisions of this article, and each school shall notify
parents or guardians of the school's students of the school's visitation
policy.
B.The commission shall notify employers
regarding the provisions of this article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-374.Employee rights
This article does not:
1.Affect an employer's obligation to comply with
any collective bargaining agreement or employee benefit plan.
2.Prevent an employer from approving school
conference and activity leave in excess of the requirements of this article.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
Title 23, chapter 2, article 8.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, may
be cited as the "Parental Involvement Leave Act".

