







REFERENCE TITLE: employment practices; consumer reports;
  limitation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2422









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Espinoza, Fernandez, Velasquez: Alston, Gonzales, Plumlee,
  Rios, Wheeler





AN ACT

Amending title
23, chapter 2, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 23205;
amending sections 28376, 441691, 441692, 441693, 441698
and 441698.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to employment
practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 2, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 23-205, to read:
START_STATUTE23-205.Consumer report or credit; prohibition; violation;
classification; definitions
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, an employer may not do either of the following:
1.Discharge
or fail or refuse to recruit, hire, promote, reassign or retain or otherwise
discriminate against an individual with respect to compensation or a term,
condition or privilege of employment because of the individual's consumer
report or credit history.
2.Inquire
about an applicant's or employee's consumer report or credit history.
B.A person
that violates this section is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
C.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Consumer report" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 441691.
2."Credit
history" means information obtained from a third party, whether or not
contained in a consumer report, that reflects or pertains to either of the
following for an individual:
(a)Current
or past borrowing or repaying behavior, including the accumulation, payment or
discharge of financial obligations.
(b)Current
or past financial condition or ability to meet financial obligations, including
debts owed, payment history or savings or checking account balances or account
numbers.
3."Employer"
means any individual, person or type of organization that employs workers,
including this state and all political subdivisions of this state.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-376, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-376.Employment of personnel; definition
A.The director may obtain criminal history record
information regarding applicants for employment for the purpose of hiring
personnel. Before making a final offer of employment, the director shall
require the preferred applicants to submit a full set of
fingerprints.The director shall submit the fingerprints to the
department of public safety for the purpose of obtaining a state and federal
criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law
92-544. The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint data
with the federal bureau of investigation. The department of transportation
shall not disclose information obtained pursuant to this subsection except to
members of the department's staff solely for employment purposes. An applicant
shall not be disqualified from employment under this subsection except in
accordance with section 13-904, subsection E.
B.The director
may obtain consumer report information regarding applicants for employment for
the purpose of hiring personnel. Information obtained may only be used to
determine the suitability of the applicant for positions involving fiduciary or
financial responsibilities, the issuance of driver licenses or other personal
identification documents or access to highly confidential information.
Consumer report information may be obtained and used only in accordance with
the fair credit reporting act (15 United States Code sections 1681 through
1681x).An applicant shall not be disqualified from employment under
this subsection unless the consumer report information relied on for the
disqualification has a reasonable relationship to the functions of the
position.
C.B.For
the purposes of this section, "applicant" means any person who seeks
employment as a new hire or any employee of the department who seeks a
transfer, a reclassification or a reassignment to a different position. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 44-1691, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1691.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Consumer" means an individual.
3.2."Consumer
report" means any written, oral,
or other communication of any information by a consumer reporting agency
bearing on a consumer's credit worthiness creditworthiness, credit
standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal
characteristics, or
mode of living which that is used or expected to be
used or collected in whole or in part for the purpose of serving as a factor in
establishing the consumer's eligibility for (a)credit or insurance to be used
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, or (b) employment purposes, or (c) other purposes authorized under section
44-1692.The term
Consumer report does not
include:
(a)Any report containing information solely as to
transactions or experiences between the consumer and the person making the
report. ; or 
(b)Any authorization or approval of a specific
extension of credit directly or indirectly by the issuer of a credit card or
similar device. ; or 
(c)Any report in which a person who has been
requested by a third party to make a specific extension of credit directly or
indirectly to a consumer conveys his decision with respect to such request, if
the third party advises the consumer of the name and address of the person to
whom the request was made.
2.3."Consumer
reporting agency" means any person which, for monetary fees, dues, or on a
cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages in whole or in part in the
practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information on consumers
for the purpose of furnishing consumer reports to third parties.
4."Employment
purposes" when used in connection with a consumer report means a report
used for the purpose of evaluating a consumer for employment, promotion,
reassignment or retention as an employee.
5.4."File"
when used in connection with information on any consumer, means all of the
information on that consumer recorded and retained by a consumer reporting
agency regardless of how the information is stored.
6.5."Person"
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity
of whatever kind or nature. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 44-1692, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1692.Permissible use of consumer reports
A.Except as provided in section 441693, a
consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report only under the
following circumstances and no other:
1.In response to the order of a court having
jurisdiction to issue such an order.
2.In accordance with the written instructions of
the consumer to whom it relates.
3.To a person that it has reason to believe:
(a)Intends to use the information in connection
with a credit transaction involving the consumer on whom the information is to
be furnished and involving the extension of credit to, or review or collection
of an account of, the consumer.
(b)Intends to
use the information for employment purposes.
(c)(b)Intends to use the information in
connection with the underwriting of insurance involving the consumer.
(d)(c)Intends to use the information in
connection with a determination of the consumer's eligibility for any license
or other benefit granted by a governmental instrumentality required by law to
consider an applicant's financial responsibility or status.
(e)(d)Otherwise has a legitimate
business need for the information in connection with a business transaction
involving the consumer.
4.On request by the department of economic
security, its agent or another agency administering a title IVD program
under the social security act certifying that:
(a)The obligor mother or the obligor father has
been determined to be the parent of a child to whom a support obligation
relates.
(b)The consumer report is needed to establish an
obligor's capacity to make support payments or to determine the appropriate
amount of the payments or for the purpose of setting an original support amount
or modifying an existing support order.
(c)The obligor has received at least ten days'
advance notice, by certified mail, at the last known address, by personal
delivery or by personal service that a consumer report will be requested.
(d)The consumer report shall be kept confidential and
shall be used only for the purposes described in subdivision (b) of this
paragraph.
(e)The consumer report shall not be used in
connection with any other civil, administrative or criminal proceeding or for
any other purpose.
B.The report furnished in subsection A of this
section may be provided by electronic or other means. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 44-1693, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1693.Access to reports by a consumer
A.Upon
On furnishing adequate
credentials by a consumer as to his
the consumer's identity:
1.A creditor who denies credit to any consumer
shall disclose to such consumer the name and address of any consumer reporting
agency which that has furnished such
creditor with a consumer report on such consumer which was considered by the
creditor in making the determination.
2.A licensing agency which that
denies a license to any consumer shall disclose to such consumer
the name and address of any consumer reporting agency which has furnished such
agency with a consumer report on such consumer which was considered by the
licensing agency in making the determination.
3.An employer
who denies a consumer employment, a promotion, retention as an employee or
reassignment or does reassign the consumer, whichever is not to the advantage
of the consumer, shall disclose to such consumer the name and address of any
consumer reporting agency which has furnished such employer with a consumer
report on such consumer which was considered by the employer in making the
determination.
4.3.A
consumer reporting agency shall disclose to any consumer the contents of its
file used for the purpose of making a consumer report on that consumer, any and
all facts, allegations or sources upon
on which such information
is based and the name and address of each person requesting a report on the
consumer within the previous six months.A credit reporting agency
may make the disclosures in the following manner:
(a)By a trained employee of the credit reporting
agency when the consumer makes the request in person.
(b)By telephone if the credit reporting agency
receives a written request for a telephone disclosure from the
consumer.Any toll for the telephone disclosure shall be prepaid by
the consumer or charged directly to the consumer requesting the telephone
disclosure.
(c)By a decoded written copy of the file or a
written copy of the consumer report with an explanation of any codes used if
the credit reporting agency receives a written request for a written disclosure
from the consumer.
B.A consumer reporting agency shall provide trained
personnel to disclose the contents of its file to consumers during normal
business office hours and assist a consumer in fully understanding all items on
his consumer report.
C.The consumer shall be permitted to be accompanied
by one other person of his the consumer's choosing, who
shall furnish reasonable identification, at such time as the consumer reviews
the files of the consumer reporting agency as provided in this section.
D.No
A consumer reporting
agency nor or any creditor, licensing agency or employer
shall not request or
require any waiver of rights by any consumer.No A consumer
reporting agency nor or any creditor or any other
person shall not charge
any fee to a consumer for a disclosure of his the consumer's file
if within a thirty-day period prior to
before the request for a
disclosure the consumer is denied credit,
or licensure, employment or received receives a notice of collection
or received receives other adverse action due to the
credit report. Except as provided for in this subsection, a
consumer reporting agency may charge a reasonable fee for any disclosures of a
file to the consumer or his
the consumer's designee. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 44-1698, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1698.Security freeze on credit reports and credit scores; fees;
definitions
A.A consumer may request in writing or in a form
acceptable to the consumer reporting agency that a consumer reporting agency
place a security freeze on the consumer's credit report. If a security freeze
is in place, a consumer reporting agency shall not release a consumer's credit
report or consumer's credit score to a third party without the consumer's prior
express authorization. This subsection does not prevent a consumer reporting
agency from advising a specific party that a security freeze is in effect with
respect to the consumer's credit report.
B.A consumer reporting agency shall place a
security freeze on a consumer's credit report not later than ten business days
after receiving a written request from the consumer.
C.The consumer reporting agency shall send a
written confirmation of the security freeze to the consumer within ten business
days after placing the security freeze on the consumer's credit report and
shall provide the consumer with a unique personal identification number or
password, other than the consumer's social security number, that the consumer
may use to provide authorization for the release of the consumer's credit
report for a specific period of time and to remove the security freeze.
D.A security freeze remains in effect until the
consumer requests that the security freeze be removed or temporarily lifted as
provided in this section.A consumer may request that a security
freeze be removed or temporarily lifted by mail, telephone, internet or other
electronic contact method in a form acceptable to the consumer reporting
agency. A consumer reporting agency shall require proper identification of any
person who makes a request to place or remove a security freeze.
E.On requesting removal, the consumer shall provide
the following information:
1.Proper identification.
2.The unique personal identification number or
password that the consumer reporting agency provided to the consumer.
F.On requesting a temporary lift to allow a credit
report to be accessed for a specific period of time, the consumer shall contact
the consumer reporting agency and shall request that the security freeze be
temporarily lifted and shall provide the following information:
1.Proper identification.
2.The unique personal identification number or
password that the consumer reporting agency provided to the consumer.
3.The proper information regarding the specific
time period for which the credit report shall be available to users of the
credit report.
G.A consumer reporting agency shall remove or
temporarily lift a security freeze from a consumer's credit report within:
1.Three business days after receiving the
consumer's request for the removal or temporary lift by mail.
2.Fifteen minutes after receiving the consumer's
request through the use of telephone, internet or other electronic contact
method in a form acceptable to the consumer reporting agency, during normal
business hours. The consumer reporting agency is not required to remove or
temporarily lift the security freeze within the fifteen minute time limit if
the agency's ability is prevented by any of the following:
(a)An act of God, including fire, earthquakes,
hurricanes, storms or similar natural disaster or phenomena.
(b)Unauthorized or illegal acts by a third party,
including terrorism, sabotage, riot, vandalism, labor strikes or disputes
disrupting operations or similar occurrence.
(c)Operational interruption, including electrical
failure, unanticipated delay in equipment or replacement part delivery,
computer hardware or software failures inhibiting response time or similar
disruption.
(d)Governmental action, including emergency orders
or regulations, judicial or law enforcement action or similar directives.
(e)Regularly scheduled maintenance, during other
than normal business hours of, or updates to, the consumer reporting agency's
systems.
(f)Commercially reasonable maintenance of, or
repair to, the consumer reporting agency's systems that is unexpected or
unscheduled.
(g)Receipt of a removal or temporary lift request
outside of normal business hours.
H.A consumer reporting agency shall remove or
temporarily lift a security freeze placed on a consumer's credit report only in
the following cases:
1.If the consumer requests removal pursuant to
subsection E of this section or
a temporary lift pursuant to subsection F of this section.
2.If the consumer's credit report was frozen as a
result of a material misrepresentation of fact. If a consumer reporting agency
intends to remove a security freeze on a consumer's credit report pursuant to
this paragraph, the consumer reporting agency shall notify by mail, telephone,
internet or other electronic contact method the consumer before removing the
security freeze on the consumer's credit report.
I.When a consumer requests a security freeze, the
consumer reporting agency shall disclose the process for placing and for
removing or temporarily lifting a freeze and the process for allowing access to
information from the consumer's credit report for a specific period of time
while the security freeze is in place.
J.If a third party requests access to a credit
report on which a security freeze is in effect, the request is in connection
with an application for credit or any other use and the consumer does not allow
the consumer's credit report to be accessed for a specific period of time, the
third party may treat the application as incomplete.
K.A consumer reporting agency may charge a five
dollar fee for each security freeze, removal of the freeze or temporary lift of
the freeze for a period of time on the consumer's credit report. A consumer
reporting agency shall not charge a fee to a victim of identity theft who
submits a valid police report that alleges a violation of section 13-2008,
13-2009 or 132010.
L.A consumer reporting agency may charge a five
dollar fee if the consumer fails to retain the original unique personal
identification number or password provided by the consumer reporting agency and
the consumer reporting agency must reissue the unique personal identification
number or password or provide a new unique personal identification number or
password to the consumer.
M.If a security freeze is in place, a consumer
reporting agency shall not change a consumer's name, date of birth, social
security number or address in the consumer's credit report without sending a
written confirmation of the change to the consumer within thirty days after the
change is posted to the consumer's file. Written confirmation is not required
for technical modifications of a consumer's official information, including
name and street abbreviations, complete spellings or transposition of numbers
or letters. For the purposes of address changes, the consumer reporting agency
shall send the written confirmation to both the new address and the former
address.
N.This section does not apply to the use of a
credit report or credit score by any of the following:
1.A person, a subsidiary, affiliate, agent or
subcontractor of that person, an assignee of a financial obligation owed by the
consumer to that person or a prospective assignee of a financial obligation
owed by the consumer to that person in conjunction with the proposed purchase
of the financial obligation with which the consumer has or had before
assignment an account or contract, including a demand deposit account, or to
whom the consumer issued a negotiable instrument, for the purposes of reviewing
the account or collecting the financial obligation owed for the account,
contract or negotiable instrument.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "reviewing the account" includes activities that are
related to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line increases and account
upgrades and enhancements.
2.A subsidiary, affiliate, agent, assignee or
prospective assignee of a person to whom access has been granted under this
section for the purpose of facilitating the extension of credit or other
permissible use.
3.Any state or local agency, law enforcement
agency, trial court or private collection agency acting pursuant to a court
order, warrant or subpoena.
4.A child support agency acting pursuant to title
25, chapter 3, article 2 or title IV-D of the social security act.
5.The department of health services or its agents
or assigns acting to investigate fraud.
6.The department of revenue or its agents or
assigns acting to investigate or collect delinquent taxes or unpaid court
orders or to fulfill any of its other statutory responsibilities.
7.The department of transportation or its agents or
assigns acting to investigate or collect delinquent taxes or unpaid court
orders or to fulfill any of its other statutory responsibilities.
8.The administrative office of the courts to
conduct audits or investigate fraud or for applicant screening.
9.Any agency or entity for the purposes of
prescreening or postscreening as provided for by the federal fair credit
reporting act (15 United States Code section 1681b).
10.Any person or entity that administers a credit
file monitoring subscription service to which the consumer has subscribed.
11.Any person or entity for the purpose of
providing a consumer with a copy of the consumer's credit report or consumer's
credit score on the consumer's request.
12.Except as otherwise provided by law, a person
setting or adjusting a rate or claim or underwriting for insurance purposes.
13.Any person who uses a consumer reporting
agency's database or file that consists entirely of information concerning, and
is used solely for, one or more of the following:
(a)Criminal record information.
(b)Fraud prevention or detection.
(c)Tenant screening.
(d)Employment
screening.
14.Any state or federally regulated bank or
financial institution for checking, savings and investment accounts.
O.The following entities are not required to place
a security freeze on a credit report:
1.A check services or fraud prevention services
company that issues reports on incidents of fraud or authorizations for the
purpose of approving or processing negotiable instruments, electronic funds
transfers or similar methods of payments.
2.A deposit account information service company
that issues reports regarding account closures due to fraud, substantial
overdrafts, automated teller machine abuse or similar negative information
regarding a consumer to inquiring banks or financial institutions for use only
in reviewing a consumer request for a deposit account at the inquiring bank or
financial institution.
3.A consumer reporting agency that acts only as a reseller
of credit information by assembling and merging information contained in the
database of another consumer reporting agency or multiple consumer reporting
agencies and that does not maintain a permanent database of credit information
from which new credit reports or credit scores are produced.
P.An act or practice in violation of this section
is an unlawful practice under section 44-1522 and is subject to enforcement
through a private action and by the attorney general. Injunctive relief may be
sought to prevent future violations of this section. The remedies provided in
this section are not intended to be the exclusive remedies available to a
consumer. This subsection does not apply to subsection G, paragraph 2 of this
section.
Q.For the purposes of this section:
1."Proper identification" means
information that is generally deemed to be sufficient to identify a person
under the circumstances.
2."Security freeze" means a notice that
is placed in a consumer's credit report at the request of the consumer and that
prohibits the consumer reporting agency from releasing the consumer's credit
report without the express authorization of the consumer. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 44-1698.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1698.02.Security freezes; credit reports; protected person; fee;
definitions
A.A consumer reporting agency shall place a
security freeze on a protected person's record or credit report if both of the
following apply:
1.The consumer reporting agency receives a request
from the protected person's representative for the placement of the security
freeze.
2.The protected person's representative does all of
the following:
(a)Submits the request to the consumer reporting
agency at the address or other point of contact and in the manner specified by
the consumer reporting agency.
(b)Provides to the consumer reporting agency
sufficient proof of identification of the protected person and the
representative.
(c)Provides to the consumer reporting agency
sufficient proof of authority to act on behalf of the protected person.
(d)Pays to the consumer reporting agency a fee as
prescribed in subsection H of this section.
B.If a consumer reporting agency does not have a
file pertaining to a protected person when the consumer reporting agency
receives a request pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section, the
consumer reporting agency shall create a record for the protected person.
C.Within thirty days after receiving a request
pursuant to this section, a consumer reporting agency shall place a security
freeze on the protected person's record or credit report.
D.Unless a security freeze is removed pursuant to
subsection F or J of this section, a consumer reporting agency may not release
the protected person's credit report, any information derived from the
protected person's credit report or any record created for the protected
person.
E.A security freeze that is placed on a protected
person's record or credit report placed
under this section remains in effect until either:
1.The protected person or the protected person's
representative requests that the consumer reporting agency remove the security
freeze pursuant to subsection F of this section.
2.The security freeze is removed pursuant to
subsection J of this section.
F.To remove a security freeze for a protected
person, the protected person or the protected person's representative shall
submit a request for the removal of the security freeze to the consumer
reporting agency at the address or other point of contact and in the manner
specified by the consumer reporting agency and pay a fee as prescribed in
subsection H of this section. In addition:
1.If the protected person requested the removal of
the security freeze, the protected person shall provide to the consumer
reporting agency either of the following:
(a)Proof that the protected person's representative
no longer has sufficient proof of authority to act on behalf of the protected
person.
(b)Sufficient proof of identification of the
protected person.
2.If the protected person's representative
requested the removal of the security freeze on behalf of the protected person,
the protected person's representative shall provide to the consumer reporting
agency both of the following:
(a)Sufficient proof of identification of the
protected person and the representative.
(b)Sufficient proof of authority to act on behalf
of the protected person.
G.Within thirty days after receiving a request to
remove a security freeze placed pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
consumer reporting agency shall remove the security freeze for the protected
person.
H.A consumer reporting agency may charge a five
dollar fee for each placement or removal of a security freeze on a protected
person's record or credit report.
I.Notwithstanding subsection H of this section, a
consumer reporting agency may not charge any fee under this section if either
of the following applies:
1.The protected person's representative provides a
copy of a police report to the consumer reporting agency alleging that the
protected person has been a victim of an offense involving a violation of
section 132008 or 132009.
2.A request for the placement or removal of a
security freeze is for a protected person who is under sixteen years of age at
the time of the request and the consumer reporting agency has a credit report
pertaining to the protected person.
J.A consumer reporting agency may remove a security
freeze for a protected person or may delete a protected person's record if the
security freeze was placed or the record was created based on a material
misrepresentation of fact by the protected person or the protected person's
representative.
K.An act or practice in violation of this section
is an unlawful practice under section 441522 and is subject to
enforcement through a private action and by the attorney
general.The attorney general may investigate and take appropriate
action as prescribed by chapter 10, article 7 of this title. The remedies
provided in this section are not intended to be the exclusive remedies
available to a protected person.
L.This section does not apply to the use of a
protected person's credit report or record by any of the following:
1.A person administering a credit file monitoring
subscription service to which either:
(a)The protected person has subscribed.
(b)The protected person's representative has
subscribed on behalf of the protected person.
2.A person providing the protected person or the
protected person's representative with a copy of the protected person's credit
report on the request of the protected person or the protected person's
representative.
3.A check services or fraud prevention services
company that issues either:
(a)Reports on incidents of fraud.
(b)Authorizations for the purpose of approving or
processing negotiable instruments, electronic funds transfers or similar
payment methods.
4.A deposit account information service company
that issues reports relating to account closures due to fraud, substantial
overdrafts, automated teller machine abuse or similar negative information
about a protected person to inquiring banks or other financial institutions for
use only in reviewing a protected person
person's request for a
deposit account at the inquiring bank or financial institution.
5.An insurance company for the purpose of
conducting its ordinary business.
6.A consumer reporting agency that both:
(a)Acts only to resell credit information by
assembling and merging information contained in a database of another consumer
reporting agency.
(b)Does not maintain a permanent database of credit
information from which new credit reports are produced.
7.A consumer reporting agency's database or file
that consists of information concerning and used for one or more of the
following, but not for credit granting, purposes:
(a)Criminal record information.
(b)Fraud prevention or detection.
(c)Personal loss history information.
(d)Employment,
Tenant or individual background screening.
8.A governmental entity when carrying out its
duties.
9.A person, a subsidiary, affiliate, agent or
subcontractor of that person, an assignee of a financial obligation owed by the
protected person to that person or a prospective assignee of a financial
obligation owed by the protected person to that person in conjunction with the
proposed purchase of the financial obligation with which the protected person
has or had before assignment an account or contract, including a demand deposit
account, or to whom the protected person issued a negotiable instrument, for
the purposes of reviewing the account or collecting the financial obligation
owed for the account, contract or negotiable instrument.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "reviewing the account" includes
activities that are related to account maintenance, monitoring, credit line
increases and account upgrades and enhancements.
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Protected person" means an individual
who is under sixteen years of age at the time a request for the placement of a
security freeze is made or who is an incapacitated person or a protected person
for whom a guardian or conservator has been appointed.
2."Record" means a compilation of
information to which all of the following apply:
(a)The record identifies a protected person.
(b)The record is created by a consumer reporting
agency solely for the purpose of complying with this section.
(c)The record is not created or used to consider
the protected person's creditworthiness, credit standing, credit capacity,
character, general reputation, personal characteristics or mode of living.
3."Representative" means a person who
provides to a consumer reporting agency sufficient proof of authority to act on
behalf of a protected person.
4."Security freeze" means:
(a)If a consumer reporting agency does not have a
file pertaining to a protected person, a restriction that is placed on the
protected person's record and that prohibits the consumer reporting agency from
releasing the protected person's record.
(b)If a consumer reporting agency has a file
pertaining to the protected person, a restriction that is placed on the
protected person's credit report and that prohibits the consumer reporting
agency from releasing the protected person's credit report or any information
derived from the protected person's credit report.
5."Sufficient proof of authority" means
documentation that shows a representative has authority to act on behalf of a
protected person and includes:
(a)A court order.
(b)A lawfully executed and valid power of attorney.
(c)A written, notarized statement signed by a
representative that expressly describes the authority of the representative to
act on behalf of a protected person.
6."Sufficient proof of identification"
means information or documentation that identifies a protected person or a
representative of a protected person and includes:
(a)A social security number or a social security
card issued by the social security administration.
(b)A certified or official copy of a birth
certificate issued by the department of health services.
(c)A driver license or a nonoperating
identification license issued by the department of transportation pursuant to
title 28, chapter 8 or any other government issued identification. END_STATUTE

