







REFERENCE TITLE: property tax valuation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2439









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending sections
42-11001, 42-11053, 42-11054, 42-12009, 42-12104, 42-12157, 42-13204, 42-13205,
42-13352, 42-16051, 42-16109, 42-16207, 42-16212, 4216213, 42-16215,
42-16251, 42-16252 and 42-19152, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to property
tax.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-11001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11001.Definitions
In chapters 11 through 19 of this title, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Assessed valuation" means the value
derived by applying the applicable percentage prescribed by chapter 15, article
1 of this title to the full cash value or
limited property value of the property,
as applicable.
2."Board" or "state board"
means the state board of equalization.
3."County board" means the county board
of supervisors sitting as the county board of equalization.
4."Current usage" means the use to which
property is put at the time of valuation by the assessor or the department.
5."Due date" means the next business day
if a due date of any report, claim, return, statement, payment, deposit,
petition, notice or other document or filing falls on Saturday, Sunday or a
legal holiday.
6."Full cash value" for property tax
purposes means the value determined as prescribed by statute.If no
statutory method is prescribed, full cash value is synonymous with market value, which means the estimate of
value that is derived annually by using standard appraisal methods and
techniques.Full cash value is the basis for assessing, fixing,
determining and levying primary and secondary property taxes on property
described in section 4213304. Full cash value shall not be greater than
market value regardless of the method prescribed to determine value for
property tax purposes.
7."Limited property value" means the
value determined pursuant to section 4213301.Limited
property value is the basis for:
(a)Computing levy limitations for counties, cities,
towns and community college districts.
(b)Assessing, fixing, determining and levying
primary and secondary property taxes on all property except property described
in section 4213304.
8."Net assessed value" means the assessed
value minus any exempt property.
9."Person" means a natural person,
individual, proprietor, proprietorship, company, corporation, organization,
association, joint venture, partner, partnership, trust, estate or limited
liability company, the federal or state government, a political subdivision of
a state or any other legal entity or combination of entities that owns,
controls or has possession of real or personal property.
10."Personal property" includes property
of every kind, both tangible and intangible, that is not included in the term "real estate".
11."Primary property taxes" means all ad
valorem taxes except for secondary property taxes.
12."Producing mine" or "mining
claim" means a mine or mining claim from which coal or any other mineral
or mineral substance, except for clay, sand, gravel, building stone or a
mineral or mineral substance that is normally processed into artificial stone,
has been extracted for commercial purposes at any time during a period of one
year before the first Monday in January of the valuation year.
13."Real estate" includes the ownership
of, claim to, possession of or right of possession to lands or patented mines.
14."Roll" means the assessment and tax
roll.
15."Secondary property taxes" means:
(a)Ad valorem taxes or special property assessments
that are used to pay the principal of and the interest and redemption charges
on bonded indebtedness or other lawful longterm obligations that are
issued or incurred for a specific capital purpose by a municipality, county or
taxing district.
(b)Ad valorem taxes or assessments levied by or for
special taxing districts and assessment districts other than school districts
and community college districts.
(c)Amounts levied pursuant to an election to exceed
a budget, expenditure or tax limitation.
16."Tax year" for all property means the
calendar year in which the taxes are levied.
17."Valuation" means the full cash value or limited property value that
is determined for real or personal property, as applicable.
18."Valuation date", for the purposes of
real property and property valued by the department, means January 1 of the
year preceding the year in which taxes are levied.
19."Valuation
year" means:
(a)For real property
and property valued by the department, the calendar year preceding the year in
which the taxes are levied.
(b)For personal property, the calendar year in
which the taxes are levied. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-11053, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11053.Investigating property valuations
A.The department shall investigate property
valuations and any matters relating to property taxes and shall require the
production of any private or public record relating to those valuations or
property taxes.
B.The director or the director's agent may:
1.Enter on and examine any property in this state
to determine its full cash value.If the owner or possessor of
property refuses entrance to the director or the director's agent, the director
may estimate the valuation full cash value of the
property.
2.Require any officer whose duties relate to
assessing or collecting taxes to report to the director at the time and in the
manner that the director prescribes. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-11054, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-11054.Standard appraisal methods and techniques
A.Subject to subsection B of this section, the
department shall:
1.Prescribe guidelines for applying standard
appraisal methods and techniques that shall be used by the department and
county assessors in determining the valuation
full cash value of property.
2.Prepare and maintain manuals and other necessary
guidelines, consistent with this section, reflecting the standard methods and
techniques to perpetuate a current inventory of taxable property and the valuation full cash value of that property.
B.Before they are adopted, the department shall
submit each substantive proposed guideline, table and manual that is developed,
amended or otherwise modified from and after December 31, 2006 to the joint
legislative oversight committee on property tax assessment and
appeals.The department shall not finally adopt, amend or otherwise
modify a substantive guideline, table or manual for at least thirty days after
submitting the measure to the committee. The committee may hold one or more
informational hearings on the proposed measure within thirty days after
submission. In adopting, amending or modifying the measure the department
shall consider the committee's comments. If the committee fails to hold a
hearing within thirty days after submission, the department may adopt, amend or
modify the measure without further consideration.
C.In applying prescribed standard appraisal methods
and techniques:
1.Current usage shall be included in the formula
for reaching a determination of full cash value.
2.Solar energy devices, as defined in section 44-1761, gridtied
photovoltaic systems and any other device or system designed for the production
of solar energy primarily for on-site consumption are considered to have no
value and to add no value to the property on which such device or system is
installed.
3.Energy efficient building components, renewable
energy equipment and combined heat and power systems are considered to add no
value to the property, if the property owner provides the county assessor with
documentation of all elements that qualify pursuant to this paragraph,
including documents showing actual acquisition and installation costs. The
documentation must be submitted to the county assessor no later than six months
before the notice of full cash value is issued for the initial evaluation year
pursuant to section 4215101 or, if the component is added after
September 30 of the preceding year, no later than March 31 of the initial
valuation year. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Combined heat and power system" means
a system that generates electricity or mechanical power and useful thermal
energy in a single, integrated system such that the useful power output of the
facility plus onehalf the useful thermal output during any twelve-month
period is no less than 42.5 per cent
percent of the total
energy input of fuel to the facility.
(b)"Energy efficient building components"
means high performance sustainable building components installed so that the
buildings or building components meet or exceed the energy efficiencies
prescribed by the United States environmental protection agency energy star
program or by a leadership in energy and environmental design green building
rating standard developed by the United States green building council, or an
equivalent green building standard, or that are at least fifteen per cent percent more energy efficient than the international energy
conservation code in effect at the time of building permit issuance.
(c)"Renewable energy equipment" means
equipment that is used to produce energy primarily for on-site consumption from
renewable resources, including wind, forest thinnings, agricultural waste,
biogas, biomass, geothermal, low-impact hydropower and solar energy not
included under paragraph 2 of this subsection.
D.If the methods and techniques prescribe using
market data as an indication of market value, the price paid for future
anticipated property value increments shall be excluded.
E.For purposes of determining full cash value the
department and county assessors shall use and apply the ratio standard
guidelines issued by the department for tax year 1993 in the same manner as
they were applied in tax year 1993.This subsection does not apply
to property that is valued according to prescribed statutory methods or to
property for which values are determined in the year after an appeal pursuant
to section 4216002. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-12009, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12009.Class nine property
A.For purposes of
taxation, class nine is established consisting of:
1.Improvements that are
located on federal, state, county or municipal property and owned by the lessee
of the property if:
(a)The improvements are
required to become the property of the federal, state, county or municipal
owner of the property on termination ofthe leasehold interest in the
property.
(b)Both the
improvements and the property are used exclusively for convention activities or
athletic, recreational, entertainment, artistic or cultural facilities.
2.Improvements that are
located on federal, state, county or municipal property and owned by the lessee
of the property if:
(a)The improvements are
required to become the property of the federal, state, county or municipal
owner of the property on termination ofthe leasehold interest in the
property.
(b)Both the
improvements and the property are:
(i)Used for or in
connection with aviation, including hangars, tiedowns, aircraft
maintenance, sales of aviationrelated items, charter andrental
activities, parking facilities and restaurants, stores and otherservices
located in a terminal.
(ii)Located on a state,
county, city or town airport or a public airport operating pursuant to sections
288423, 288424 and 288425.
3.Property that is
defined as "contractor-acquired property" or
"government-furnished property" in the federal acquisition
regulations (48Code of Federal Regulations section 45.101) and that is
leased to or acquired by the government and used to perform a government
contract.
4.Property of a
corporation that is organized by or at the directionof this state or a
county, city or town to develop, construct, improve, repair, replace or own any
property, improvement, building or otherfacility to be used for public
purposes that the state, county, city ortown pledges to lease or
lease-purchase with state, county or municipal special or general revenues and
that is not otherwise exempt under chapter 11, article 3 of this title.
5.Real property and
improvements, including land, buildings, furniture and equipment, regardless of
ownership, that are leased for the entire valuation year to, and used
exclusively by, a nonprofit organization that is recognized under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that operates on the premises as a
charter school pursuant to section 15183 or that are leased for the
entire valuation year to, and used exclusively by, a nonprofit church,
religious assembly or religious institution. If only part of a parcel of real
property or improvements to real property is leased for operation of a charter
school or a church, religious assembly or religious institution as provided by
this paragraph, only the portion so leased qualifies for classification under
this section. A property owner who leases property to a charter school or a
church, religious assembly or religious institution as provided by this
paragraph shall file an affidavit with the county assessor stating that the
charter school or church, religious assembly or religious institution shall be
the sole beneficiary of the change in property tax classification pursuant to
this section and that the lease rate that is charged to the charter school or
church, religious assembly or religious institution is consistent with the
lease rates that are charged to other tenants of the property or a fair market
rate.
B.Improvements that are
located in an area defined as a research parkpursuant to section 35701
may not be classified under this section.
C.All property
classified as class nine is subject to
valuation valued
at full cash value. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-12104, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12104.Valuation and assessment
A.The county assessor shall determine the assessed
valuation of historic property as provided by chapter 15, article 1 of this title.Each
year that the property is classified and assessed as historic property the
assessor shall enter on the rolls that the property is so assessed and may be
subject to additional taxes under section 42-12107 by adding the notation
"historic property (potential additional tax)".
B.The assessor shall determine the valuation full cash value of commercial historic
property that is classified as class seven under section 4212007 or
class eight under section 4212008 by using the market approach to valuation
as described in section 4216051, subsection B, paragraph 2 or by using
the cost approach to valuation as described in section 42-16051, subsection B,
paragraph 3, using the year of application as the base year. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-12157, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12157.Recapture and penalty for false information or failure to
notify of change in use
If an owner of property or the owner's agent intentionally
provides false information on an application form, or fails to provide the
notice required under section 4212156:
1.The property shall be reclassified immediately as
being used for a nonagricultural use and shall be valued at its nonagricultural
full cash value valuation.
2.The owner is liable for the additional taxes on
the difference between the nonagricultural full cash value valuation and the full cash value valuation of the property for all of the tax
years in which the property was classified based on the false information.
3.The owner shall also pay a penalty equal to
twentyfive per cent percent of the additional taxes
computed under paragraph 2 of this section.The assessor may abate
this penalty for good cause.Twenty per cent percent of the penalty shall be deposited in the state
general fund, and eighty per cent
percent of the penalty
shall be deposited with the county treasurer to be used by the county
assessor's office. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 42-13204, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-13204.Election to use income method of valuation initially
In lieu of valuation
full cash value under
section 42-13203, the owner of a shopping center may elect to have the valuation full cash value of the shopping center
determined by the income method commonly known as the straight line building
residual method if the owner submits all reasonably necessary income and
expense information for the owner's three most recent fiscal years to the
county assessor before September 1 of the year immediately preceding the year
for which the property will be valued. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 42-13205, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-13205.Valuation method applied on appeal
On appeal of a valuation in which the full cash value was determined by the income
method pursuant to section 42-13204 or an appeal in which the owner has elected
the income method pursuant to section 42-13203, subsection D, the valuation full cash value of a shopping center shall be
determined by whichever one of the following valuation methods most closely approximates
fair market value:
1.The income method commonly known as the straight
line building residual method pursuant to section 42-13203, subsection
D.If the reviewing body finds that other information that is
customarily analyzed under the income method must be used to properly apply the
income method to the property, it may use the other information to supplement
information provided by the owner if:
(a)The credible and accurate information provided
by the owner remains the primary basis for the valuation full cash value under the income method.
(b)The supplementary information is credible, is
derived from properties or circumstances that are substantially comparable to
the property and is valid under the income method.
(c)The reviewing body specifies in its written
order what other information was considered, the manner in which it was applied
and the change in the valuation
full cash value under the
income method, if any, resulting from the use of the supplementary information.
2.The replacement cost less depreciation method
pursuant to section 42-13203.
3.The market comparison method, if a sale of the
subject property occurred within two years before the date of valuation date and no material change to the property,
its lease terms, tenants or occupancy rates or any other material fact has
occurred since the sale.If the market comparison method is
applicable, the reviewing body may consider information on sales of other
properties that occurred within two years before the date of valuation date and that are determined to be comparable
to the subject property by clear and convincing evidence. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 42-13352, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-13352.Determining valuation of property of manufacturers,
assemblers or fabricators
A.The county assessor shall determine the valuation
of both real and personal property valued under this article.
B.For purposes of determining the valuation full cash value of property valued under this
article, the county assessor shall use standard appraisal methods and
techniques as provided in section 4211001, paragraph 6 and section 4211054,
except as otherwise provided in this article.
C.The taxable value of personal property is the
result of acquisition costs less any appropriate depreciation as prescribed by
the department.The taxable value shall not exceed the market value.
END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 42-16051, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16051.Petition for assessor review of improper valuation or
classification
A.An owner of property that in the owner's opinion
has been valued too high or otherwise improperly valued or listed on the roll
may file a petition with the assessor on a written form prescribed by the
department.
B.The petition shall state the owner's opinion of
the full cash value valuation of the property and
substantial information that justifies that opinion of value for the assessor
to consider for purposes of basing a change in classification or correction of
the valuation.For purposes of this subsection, the owner provides
substantial information to justify the opinion of value by stating the method
or methods of valuation on which the opinion is based and:
1.Under the income approach, including the information
required in section 4216052.
2.Under the market approach, including the full cash value valuation of at least one comparable property
in the same geographic area or the sale of the subject property.
3.Under the cost approach, including the cost to
build or rebuild the property plus the land value.
C.The petition may include more than one parcel of
property if they are part of the same economic unit according to department
guidelines or if they are owned by the same owner, have the same use, are appealed
on the same basis and are located in the same geographic area, as determined
pursuant to department guidelines, and are on a form prescribed by the
department.
D.The petition shall be filed within sixty days
after the date the assessor mailed the notice of valuation or the amended
notice of valuation under section 4215101.United States
postal service postmark dates are evidence of the date petitions were filed for
purposes of this subsection.
E.The petition for review form for property that is
listed as class three pursuant to section 4212003 shall contain
simplified instructions and shall be separate from the petition forms used for
other classes of property. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 42-16109, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16109.Corrections and changes to tax roll
A.The county board may correct any error or mistake
in the assessor's valuation or legal classification under the law when the
county board considers it necessary to list the property on the roll at its full cash value correct valuation.
B.The county board shall require the assessor to
place on the roll and determine the valuation or legal classification of any
property that is subject to taxation but that is not on the roll.In
the absence of the assessor, the county board shall determine the valuation or
legal classification of the omitted property and transmit the proposed
valuation or legal classification to the department as provided by section 4211056.
C.The county assessor shall make the necessary
changes in the tax roll and records to reflect the county board's
determination.
D.The department has the right to intervene and be
heard in any proceeding pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 42-16207, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16207.Commencement of appeal; notice
A.A court appeal relating to valuation or
classification of property is commenced by filing a notice of appeal with
either the tax court or the superior court pursuant to section 12-163,
subsection B.
B.The notice of appeal shall contain a statement of
the reasons why the valuation or classification is excessive or erroneous.
C.If the department or the county requests an
increase in full cash value
valuation, the response
filed shall contain a statement of the reasons why the valuation or
classification is insufficient or erroneous. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 42-16212, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16212.Hearing
A.If two or more
actions have been filed under this article for the same taxable year with
respect to the same property, the actions shall be consolidated for the purpose
of the hearing.
B.At the hearing both parties may present evidence
of any matters that relate to the classification or to the full cash value valuation of the property in question as of
the date of its assessment.The valuation or classification as
approved by the appropriate state or county authority is presumed to be correct
and lawful.
C.For appeals from the state board relating to
equalization orders issued by the department, the court shall hear the appeal
and render its decision by September 1 of the year in which the appeal is
filed. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 42-16213, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16213.Findings and judgment
A.If the court finds that the valuation is
excessive or insufficient, it shall find the property's full cash
value.The court may find a full cash value that is higher or lower
than the full cash value valuation that was appealed
regardless of which party filed the appeal.
B.If the court finds that the valuation is:
1.Excessive, the court shall render judgment for
the taxpayer and against the state or county, whichever is appropriate, in an
amount equal to the excess in taxes levied and assessed together with the costs
of the appeal.
2.Correct, the court shall dismiss the action with
costs against the plaintiff except in appeals taken pursuant to section 4216206.
3.Insufficient, the judgment shall be for the state
or county, whichever is appropriate, and against the taxpayer for the costs of
the appeal and the taxes due on the property in excess of the amount originally
levied and assessed.The judgment is a lien on the appellant's real
and personal property as though the assessment had originally been in the
amount of the judgment.
C.If the court finds that the classification is in
error, it shall determine the correct classification.The taxes due
on the property shall be determined using the classification determined by the
court regardless of whether the department filed an appeal pursuant to section
4216206. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 42-16215, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16215.Transmitting judgment to county or department; correcting
tax rolls
A.The clerk of the court shall transmit the
judgment to the clerk of the board of supervisors or to the department,
whichever is appropriate, and to the county treasurer.
B.Unless an appeal is taken according to the rules
of civil procedure, the board of supervisors, county assessor, county treasurer
or department, whichever is appropriate, shall correct the rolls within fifteen
days according to the judgment.
C.The full cash value found by the court shall be used to determine the valuation to be
entered on the tax roll,
and that valuation shall
be used to determine the taxes due on the property. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 42-16251, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16251.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Board" means the county board of
equalization or the state board of equalization, as appropriate.
2."Court" means either the superior court
or tax court.
3."Error" means any mistake in assessing
or collecting property taxes resulting from:
(a)An imposition of an incorrect, erroneous or
illegal tax rate that resulted in assessing or collecting excessive taxes.
(b)An incorrect designation or description of the
use or occupancy of property or its classification pursuant to chapter 12,
article 1 of this title.
(c)Applying the incorrect assessment ratio
percentages prescribed by chapter 15, article 1 of this title.
(d)Misreporting or failing to report property if a
statutory duty exists to report the property.
(e)Subject to the requirements of section 4216255,
subsection B, a valuation full cash value or legal
classification that is based on an error that is exclusively factual in nature
or due to a specific legal restriction that affects the subject property and
that is objectively verifiable without the exercise of discretion, opinion or
judgment and that is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, such as:
(i)A mistake in the description of the size, use or
ownership of land, improvements or personal property.
(ii)Clerical or typographical errors in reporting
or entering data that was used directly to establish valuation full cash value.
(iii)A failure to timely capture on the tax roll a
change in value or legal classification caused by new construction, the
destruction or demolition of improvements, the splitting of one parcel of real
property into two or more new parcels or the consolidating of two or more parcels
of real property into one new parcel existing on the valuation date.
(iv)The existence or nonexistence of the property
on the valuation date.
(v)Property that is destroyed after the lien date.
(vi)Any other objectively verifiable error that
does not require the exercise of discretion, opinion or judgment.
Error does not include a correction that results from a change
in the law as a result of a final nonappealable ruling by a court of competent
jurisdiction in a case that does not involve the property for which a
correction is claimed.
4."Tax officer" means the department,
county assessor or county treasurer, as applicable.
5."Taxpayer" means the owner of real or
personal property that is liable for tax. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 42-16252, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-16252.Notice of proposed correction; response; petition for
review; appeal
A.Subject to the limitations and conditions
prescribed by this article, if a tax officer determines that any real or
personal property has been assessed improperly as a result of a property tax
error, the tax officer shall send the taxpayer a notice of proposed correction
at the taxpayer's last known address by:
1.Certified mail, return receipt requested, if
correction of the error results in an increase in the full cash value valuation or change in legal classification of
the property.
2.First class mail or, at the taxpayer's written
request, delivery by common carrier or electronic transmittal, if correction of
the error does not result in an increase in the valuation of the property.
B.The notice shall:
1.Be in a form prescribed by the department.
2.Clearly identify the subject property by tax
parcel number or tax roll number and the year or years for which the correction
is proposed.
3.Explain the error, the reasons for the error and
the proposed correction of the error.
4.Inform the taxpayer of the procedure and deadlines
for appealing all or part of the proposed determination before the tax roll is
corrected.
C.Within thirty days after receiving a notice of
proposed correction, the taxpayer may file a written response to the tax
officer that sent the notice to either consent to or dispute the proposed
correction of the error and to state the grounds for disputing the
correction.A failure to file a written response within thirty days
constitutes consent to the proposed correction. A taxpayer may file a request
for an extension of time within thirty days after receiving the notice of
proposed correction.The extension of time may not exceed thirty
days.If an extension is granted, any response that is not filed
within the extended due date constitutes consent to the proposed correction.
D.The taxpayer may appeal any valuation or legal
classification issue that arises from the proposed correction as provided in
this section.
E.If the taxpayer consents to the proposed
correction, or consents to the proposed correction but disputes the proposed
valuation or legal classification as provided on the form prescribed by the
department, the tax roll shall be promptly corrected to allow property taxes to
be levied and collected in all subsequent tax years, but no additional tax,
interest or penalty may be imposed for the current tax year or any tax year
preceding the date of the notice of proposed correction.
F.If the taxpayer disputes the proposed correction
or the proposed valuation or legal classification, the tax officer shall meet
with the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative in any case in which the
taxpayer has timely filed a written response to discuss the proposed
correction.If after the meeting the tax officer and the taxpayer
reach an agreement on all or part of the proposed correction, the tax officer
and the taxpayer shall each sign an agreement and the tax roll must be promptly
corrected to the extent agreed on.
G.If after the meeting the parties fail to agree on
all or part of the proposed correction, the tax officer shall serve a notice on
the taxpayer by certified mail within thirty days after the meeting date
advising the taxpayer that the tax roll will be corrected to the extent agreed
on. The taxpayer may file a petition on a form prescribed by the department
with the board of equalization within thirty days after the date of the notice
or it is barred.On receiving the petition, the board shall hold a
hearing on the disputed issues in the proposed correction within thirty days
and shall issue a written decision pursuant to the board's rules.
H.A party that is dissatisfied with the decision of
the board may appeal the decision to court within sixty days after the date the
board's decision is mailed, but any additional taxes that are determined to be
due must be timely paid before delinquency for the court to retain jurisdiction
of the matter. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 42-19152, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-19152.Taxation of mobile homes
A.Each mobile home is subject to ad valorem
property tax to be assessed and collected in the same manner and at the same
time as other personal property that is taxable under this chapter.
B.The department shall establish the method of
determining the valuation full cash value of mobile homes
that are taxable under this chapter to be set by the county assessor. END_STATUTE

