







REFERENCE TITLE: child care waiting list; appropriation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2425









Introduced by
Representative
  Mendez





AN ACT

amending section
46803, Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to child
care.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 46-803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE46-803.Eligibility for child care assistance
A.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are attempting to achieve independence from
the cash assistance program and who need child care assistance in support of
and as specified in their personal responsibility agreement pursuant to
chapters 1 and 2 of this title.
B.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are transitioning off of cash assistance
due to increased earnings or child support income in order to accept or
maintain employment. Eligible families must request this assistance within six
months after the cash assistance case closure. Child care assistance may be
provided for up to twentyfour months after the case closure and shall
cease whenever the family income exceeds one hundred sixtyfive per cent percent of the federal poverty level.
C.The department shall provide child care
assistance to eligible families who are diverted from cash assistance pursuant
to section 46298 in order to obtain or maintain
employment.Child care assistance may be provided for up to twentyfour
months after the case closure and shall cease whenever the family income
exceeds one hundred sixtyfive per
cent percent
of the federal poverty level.
D.The department may provide child care assistance
to support eligible families with incomes of one hundred sixtyfive per cent percent or less of the federal poverty level
to accept or maintain employment.Priority for this child care
assistance shall be given to families with incomes of one hundred per cent percent or less of the federal poverty level.
E.The department may provide child care assistance
to families referred by the department of child safety and to children in
foster care pursuant to title 8, chapter 4 to support child protection.
F.The department may provide child care assistance
to special circumstance families whose incomes are one hundred sixtyfive
per cent percent or less of the federal poverty level
and who are unable to provide child care for a portion of a twentyfour
hour day due to a crisis situation of domestic violence or homelessness, or a
physical, mental, emotional or medical condition, participation in a drug
treatment or drug rehabilitation program or court ordered community
restitution.Priority for this child care assistance shall be given
to families with incomes of one hundred per
cent percent
or less of the federal poverty level.
G.In lieu of the employment activity required in
subsection B, C or D of this section, the department may allow eligible
families with teenaged custodial parents under twenty years of age to complete
a high school diploma or its equivalent or engage in remedial education
activities reasonably related to employment goals.
H.The department may provide supplemental child
care assistance for department approved education and training activities if
the eligible parent, legal guardian or caretaker relative is working at least a
monthly average of twenty hours per week and this education and training are
reasonably related to employment goals.The eligible parent, legal
guardian or caretaker relative must demonstrate satisfactory progress in the
education or training activity.
I.Beginning
March 12, 2003, the department shall establish waiting lists for child care
assistance and prioritize child care assistance for different eligibility
categories in order to manage within appropriated and available monies.
Priority of children on the waiting list shall start with those families at one
hundred per cent of the federal poverty level and continue with each successive
ten per cent increase in the federal poverty level until the maximum allowable
federal poverty level of one hundred sixtyfive per cent. Priority shall
be given regardless of time spent on the waiting list.
J.I.The department
shall establish criteria for denying, reducing or terminating child care
assistance that include:
1.Whether there is a parent, legal guardian or
caretaker relative available to care for the child.
2.Financial or programmatic eligibility changes or
ineligibility.
3.Failure to cooperate with the requirements of the
department to determine or redetermine eligibility.
4.Hours of child care need that fall within the
child's compulsory academic school hours.
5.Reasonably accessible and available publicly
funded early childhood education programs.
6.Whether an otherwise eligible family has been
sanctioned and cash assistance has been terminated pursuant to chapter 2 of
this title.
7.Other circumstances of a similar nature.
8.Whether sufficient monies exist for the
assistance.
K.J.Families
receiving child care assistance under subsection D or F of this section are
also subject to the following requirements for that child care assistance:
1.Each child is limited to no more than sixty
cumulative months of child care assistance. The department may provide an
extension if the family can prove that the family is making efforts to improve
skills and move towards self-sufficiency.
2.Families are limited to no more than six children
receiving child care assistance.
3.Copayments shall be imposed for all children
receiving child care assistance. Copayments for each child may be higher for
the first child in child care than for additional children in child care.
L.K.The department
shall review each case at least once a year to evaluate eligibility for child
care assistance.
M.L.The department
shall report on December 31 and June 30 of each year to the joint legislative
budget committee the total number of families who applied for child care
assistance and the total number of families who were denied assistance under
this section because the parents, legal guardians or caretaker relatives who
applied for assistance were not citizens or legal residents of the United
States or were not otherwise lawfully present in the United States.
N.M.This section
shall be enforced without regard to race, religion, gender, ethnicity or
national origin.
O.N.The department
shall refer all child care subsidy recipients to child support enforcement and
to local workforce services and provide information on the earned income tax
credit. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Appropriation; child care costs
The sum of $80,950,176 is appropriated from the state general
fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the department of economic security for child
care assistance costs pursuant to section 46-803, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
amended by this act, to eliminate the current waiting list and to provide child
care assistance to eligible families with family incomes up to one hundred
sixty-five percent of the federal poverty level.

