







REFERENCE TITLE: expedited rulemaking; outdated rules







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2450









Introduced by
Representative
  Mitchell





AN ACT

amending section
411027, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to rulemaking.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-1027, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1027.Expedited rulemaking
A.An agency may conduct expedited rule making rulemaking pursuant to this section if the rule making rulemaking does not increase the cost of
regulatory compliance, increase a fee or reduce procedural rights of persons
regulated and does one or more of the following: 
1.Amends or repeals rules made obsolete by repeal
or supersession of an agency's statutory authority.
2.Amends or repeals rules for which the statute on
which the rule is authorized has been declared unconstitutional by a court with
jurisdiction, there is a final judgment and no statute has been enacted to
replace the unconstitutional statute.
3.Makes, amends or repeals rules that repeat
verbatim existing statutory authority granted to the agency.
4.Makes, amends or repeals rules relating only to
internal governmental operations that are not subject to violation by a person.
5.Corrects typographical errors, makes address or
name changes or clarifies language of a rule without changing its effect.
6.Adopts or incorporates by reference without
material change federal statutes or regulations pursuant to section 411028,
statutes of this state or rules of other agencies of this state.
7.Reduces or consolidates steps, procedures or
processes in the rules.
8.Amends or
repeals rules that are outdated, redundant or otherwise no longer necessary for
the operation of state government.
B.If the proposed expedited rule making rulemaking is solely for a purpose prescribed
in subsection A, paragraph 1, 3,
or 5 or 8 of this section, an agency shall notify
the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker of the house of
representatives and the council of the proposed expedited rule making rulemaking. The notice shall contain the name,
address and telephone number of the agency contact person and the exact wording
of the proposed expedited rule making
rulemaking and indicate
how the proposed expedited rule making
rulemaking achieves the
purpose prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 1, 3, or
5 or 8 of this section.
C.If the proposed expedited rule making rulemaking is for a purpose prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 2, 4, 6 or 7 of this section, an agency shall file a
request for proposed expedited rule
making rulemaking with
the governor and notify the president of the senate, the speaker of the house
of representatives and the council of the request.The request shall
contain the name, address and telephone number of the agency contact person and
the exact wording of the proposed expedited rule making rulemaking and an explanation of how the
proposed expedited rule making
rulemaking meets the
criteria in subsection A of this section.
D.The governor may approve the request for
expedited rule making rulemaking if the request complies
with subsection A of this section. 
E.On delivery of the notice required in subsection
B of this section or on approval by the governor of a request for proposed
expedited rule making rulemaking the agency shall
file a notice of the proposed expedited rule
making rulemaking with
the secretary of state for publication in the next state administrative
register containing the information and provisions of the proposed rule making rulemaking filed with the governor pursuant to
subsection B or C of this section and allow any person to provide written
comment to the agency for at least thirty days after publication in the
register, including objections to the rule
making rulemaking because
it does not meet the criteria pursuant to subsection A of this section. The
agency shall adequately respond in writing to the comments on the proposed
expedited rule making rulemaking.
F.An agency may not submit an expedited rule to the
council that is substantially different from the proposed rule contained in the
notice of proposed expedited rule making
rulemaking. However, an
agency may terminate an expedited rule
making rulemaking proceeding
pursuant to subsection K of this section and commence a new rule making rulemaking proceeding for the purpose of
making a substantially different rule. An agency shall use the criteria
prescribed in section 411025, subsection B for determining whether an
expedited rule is substantially different from the published proposed expedited
rule.
G.After adequately addressing, in writing, any
written objections, an agency shall file a request for approval with the
council. The request shall contain the notice of proposed expedited rule making rulemaking filed with the secretary of state
pursuant to this section and the agency's responses to any written
comments.The council may require a representative of an agency
whose proposed expedited rule making
rulemaking is under
examination to attend a council meeting and answer questions. The council may
communicate to the agency its comments on the proposed expedited rule making
within the scope of subsection A of this section and require the agency to
respond to its comments or testimony in writing. A person may submit written
comments to the council that are within the scope of subsection A of this
section.
H.Before an agency files a notice of final
expedited rule making rulemaking with the secretary
of state, the council shall approve any proposed expedited rule making rulemaking. The council shall not approve the
rule unless: 
1.The rule satisfies the criteria for expedited rule making rulemaking pursuant to subsection A of this
section. 
2.The rule is clear, concise and understandable.
3.The rule is not illegal, inconsistent with
legislative intent or beyond the agency's statutory authority.
4.The agency, in writing, adequately addressed the
comments on the proposed rule and any supplementary proposal.
5.If applicable, the permitting requirements comply
with section 411037.
6.The rule is not a substantial change, considered
as a whole, from the proposed rule and any supplementary proposal.
7.The rule imposes the least burden and costs to
persons regulated by the rule.
I.On receipt of council approval, the agency shall
file a notice of final expedited rule
making rulemaking with
the secretary of state that contains the information and provisions required in
subsection B or C of this section and that the agency did receive approval from
the council pursuant to this section.
J.The expedited rule making rulemaking becomes effective thirty days
following publication of the notice of final expedited rule making rulemaking.
K.An agency may terminate an expedited rule making rulemaking proceeding on approval of the
governor and written notice to the president of the senate, the speaker of the
house of representatives and the council. END_STATUTE

