







REFERENCE TITLE: funeral establishments; procurement
  organizations








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2475









Introduced by
Representatives
  Norgaard, Mendez: Bowers, Cobb, Livingston, Mitchell





AN ACT

amending section
32-1365, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to funeral establishment practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1365, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1365.Violations; classification
A.It is unlawful:
1.For an embalmer or embalmer's assistant who knows
or should know of a fact that is sufficient to raise suspicion of a crime
related to the cause of death or a crime against a dead human body to embalm a
dead human body without the permission of the county medical examiner or any
other proper official in whose jurisdiction the embalming is to be performed.
2.To disinter a dead human body for removal to any
location other than the original cemetery of burial except under the direction
of a licensed funeral director.
3.To use, for burial purposes, a casket previously
used as a receptacle for the burial or other disposition of a dead human body.
4.To sell a casket that has been used for rental
purposes unless fully disclosed in writing to the purchaser and at least the
pillow and the mattress have been replaced.
5.For a funeral director or embalmer, or an agent
of a funeral director or embalmer, after a death or while a death is impending,
to knowingly pay, offer to pay or cause to be paid, directly or indirectly, a
sum of money or any other valuable consideration for securing business relating
to the death.This paragraph does not prohibit the payment of
commissions to salespersons and funeral directors who are employed by a funeral
establishment.
6.To knowingly pay, offer to pay or cause to be
paid any commission, bonus, rebate or other consideration to a funeral director
or embalmer, or to an agent or employee of a funeral director or embalmer, as
an inducement to cause a dead human body to be unlawfully disposed of in a
crematory or cemetery or to recommend the unlawful disposition of a dead human
body in a crematory or cemetery.
7.For any funeral establishment or funeral director
to advertise under any name that tends to mislead the public or that
sufficiently resembles the professional or business name of another licensed
funeral director or establishment as to cause confusion or misunderstanding.
8.For a
funeral establishment or a licensee to hold a pecuniary or proprietary interest
in a procurement organization as defined in section 36841. This
paragraph does not preclude reasonable payments to a funeral establishment or a
licensee for the preparation, transportation, preservation, storage and
delivery of a dead human body to a procurement organization as defined in
section 36-841.
B.Unless another penalty is specifically provided,
a person who intentionally and knowingly violates any provision of this chapter
is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE

