







REFERENCE TITLE: department of education; technology;
  reports







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2437









Introduced by
Representative
  Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
15249 and 15249.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
department of education.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-249, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-249.Department of education; education learning and
accountability system; reports; reviews
A.Subject to the appropriation of state monies, or the receipt of federal monies, private
donations or grants from any lawful public or private source for this purpose,
the department of education, in coordination with the data governance
commission established by section 15249.01, shall develop and implement
the education learning and accountability system to collect, compile, maintain
and report student level data for students attending public educational
institutions that provide instruction to pupils in preschool programs,
kindergarten programs, grades one through twelve and postsecondary educational
programs in this state. 
B.The education learning and accountability system
shall:
1.Maintain longitudinal, student level data,
including student demographic, grade level, assessment, teacher assignment and
other data required to meet state and federal reporting requirements.
2.Incorporate the student accountability
information system prescribed in chapter 9, article 8 of this title.
3.Be accessible through commonly used internet web
browsers to carry out the data collection, compilation and reporting duties
prescribed in this title.
C.The department of education may contract with a
third party to carry out the purposes of this section.
D.The department of education, in coordination with
the data governance commission, shall develop a detailed plan to develop and
implement the education learning and accountability system.
E.The department of education shall present the
plan developed pursuant to subsection D of this section to the state board of
education for review and approval. The department of education shall continue
to provide quarterly
reports to the state board of education, or
on request, for review and approval of
the state board of education, on the development and
implementation of the education learning and accountability system. All
reports provided shall include progress and
expenditures to date, timelines and cost estimates for completion.
F.Any contract awarded pursuant to subsection C of
this section shall allow the superintendent of public instruction to renew the
contracts for two subsequent periods of not more than three years each and
shall prescribe the circumstances under which the superintendent of public
instruction may terminate the contracts. The contracts shall allow this state
to cancel any contract at any time after the first year of operation, without
penalty to this state, on ninety days' written notice and shall require the
contractor to be in compliance at all times with state and federal law.
G.Any contract awarded pursuant to subsection C of
this section may provide for annual contract price or cost adjustments, except
that any adjustments may be made only once each year effective on the
anniversary of the contract's effective date. Any adjustment made pursuant to
the terms of the contract must be applied to the total payments made to the
contractor for the previous contract year and shall not exceed the percentage
change in the average consumer price index as published by the United States
department of labor, bureau of labor statistics between that figure for the
latest calendar year and the next previous calendar year. Any price or cost
adjustments that are different than those authorized in this subsection may be
made only if the legislature specifically authorizes the adjustments and
appropriates monies for that purpose, if required.
H.The superintendent of public instruction shall
not award a contract pursuant to this section unless:
1.The superintendent of public instruction receives
an acceptable proposal pursuant to any request for proposals. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "acceptable proposal" means a proposal that
substantially meets all of the requirements or conditions prescribed in this
section and in the request for proposals.
2.The proposal offers a level and quality of
services that equal or exceed the services that would be provided by this
state.
3.The contractor provides audited financial
statements for the previous five years, or for each year that the contractor
has been in operation if fewer than five years, and provides other financial
information as requested.
I.The sovereign immunity of this state does not
apply to any contractor who is a party to any contract pursuant to this
section. The contractor or any agent of the contractor may not plead the
defense of sovereign immunity in any action arising out of the performance of
the contract.
J.The terms of any contract pursuant to this
section are subject to review by the joint legislative budget committee before
placement of any advertisement that solicits a response to a request for
proposals. Any proposed modification or amendment to the contract is subject
to prior review by the joint legislative budget committee.
K.During the first year of operation under a
contract executed pursuant to this section, the contracting entity shall submit
monthly reports to the department of education as prescribed by the
department. After the first year of operation under the contract, the
contracting entity shall submit quarterly reports to the department as
prescribed by the department.
L.At the end of the second year of a contract
executed pursuant to this section, an independent evaluator selected by the
superintendent of public instruction shall conduct and complete a performance
review to determine if the contracting entity has met the goals specified in
the contract. The independent evaluator shall submit a report of the
independent evaluator's findings to the governor, the president of the senate
and the speaker of the house of representatives on or before May 1, and shall
provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-249.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-249.01.Data governance commission; membership; terms; duties;
commission termination
A.The data governance commission is established in
the department of education consisting of:
1.The chief technology managers, or the managers'
designees, of each of the universities under the jurisdiction of the Arizona
board of regents.
2.The chief technology manager, or the manager's
designee, of a community college district located in a county with a population
of eight hundred thousand persons or more who has expertise in technology and
who is appointed by the governor.
3.The chief technology manager, or the manager's
designee, of a community college district located in a county with a population
of less than eight hundred thousand persons who has expertise in technology and
who is appointed by the governor.
4.The chief executive officer of the Arizona early
childhood development and health board or the chief executive officer's
designee.
5.An officer or employee of a school district
located in a county with a population of eight hundred thousand persons or more
who has expertise in technology and who is appointed by the governor.
6.An officer or employee of a school district
located in a county with a population of less than eight hundred thousand
persons who has expertise in technology and who is appointed by the governor.
7.An officer or employee of a charter school
located in a county with a population of eight hundred thousand persons or more
who has expertise in technology and who is appointed by the president of the
senate.
8.An officer or employee of a charter school
located in a county with a population of less than eight hundred thousand
persons who has expertise in technology and who is appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives.
9.Two representatives of the business community,
one of whom is appointed by the president of the senate and one of whom is
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
10.The director of the department of administration
or the director's designee.
11.The superintendent of public instruction or the
superintendent's designee.
B.The initial appointed members shall assign
themselves by lot to terms of two, three and four years in
office.All subsequent appointed members of the commission shall
serve fouryear terms. The chairperson shall notify the governor, the
speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the senate on
appointments of these terms.Members of the commission shall elect a
chairperson from among the members of the commission. Members of the
commission shall not receive compensation. The department of education shall
provide adequate staff support for the commission.
C.The commission shall identify, examine and
evaluate the needs of public institutions that provide instruction to pupils in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs, grades one through twelve and
postsecondary programs in Arizona and shall:
1.Establish
guidelines related to the following:
(a)Managed data
access.
(b)Technology.
(c)Privacy and security.
(d)Adequacy of training.
(e)Adequacy of data model implementation.
(f)Prioritization of funding opportunities.
(g)Resolution of data conflicts.
(h)The form and format of data elements that are
required for state and federal reporting and interagency data sharing.
2.Provide
recommendations on technology spending.
3.2.Provide analyses
and recommendations of the following:
(a)The control of data confidentiality and data
security for stored data and data in transmission.
(b)Access privileges and access management.
(c)Data audit management, including data quality
metrics, sanctions and incentives for data quality improvement.
(d)Data standards for stored data and data in
transmission, including rules for definition, format, source, provenance,
element level and contextual integrity.
(e)Documentation standards for data elements and
systems components.
(f)Data archival and retrieval management systems,
including change control and change tracking.
(g)Publication of standard and ad hoc reports for
state and local level use on student achievement.
(h)Publication of implementation timelines and
progress.
4.3.Ensure that the
guidelines and recommendations adopted pursuant to this subsection reduce
duplication and administrative requirements for public schools, postsecondary
institutions and public agencies.
5.4.Submit an annual
report on or before December 1 regarding the commission's activities to the
governor, the speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the
senate.The data governance commission shall provide copies of this
report to the secretary of state.
D.The commission established by this section ends
on July 1, 2020 pursuant to section 413103. END_STATUTE

