







REFERENCE TITLE: cannabis; regulation; taxation







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2406









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Hale, Larkin: Clark, Espinoza, Gabaldn, Gonzales,
  Plumlee





AN ACT

Amending title
36, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 28.2; amending title 42,
chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 13; relating to the
regulation of cannabis.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 28.2, to read:
CHAPTER 28.2
REGULATION OF CANNABIS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE36-2821.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Cannabis":
(a)Means all parts of the plant of
the genus cannabis, the seeds of the plant, the resin extracted from any part
of the plant and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the plant, its seeds or its resin, including cannabis
concentrate.
(b)Does not include industrial hemp
or fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
a sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination or the weight
of any other ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink or another product.
2."Cannabis
accessories" means any equipment, products or materials of any kind that
are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing or containing cannabis, or for ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body.
3."Cannabis
cultivation facility" means an entity that is registered to cultivate,
prepare and package cannabis and sell cannabis to retail cannabis stores, to
cannabis product manufacturing facilities and to other cannabis cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
4."Cannabis
establishment" means a cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility or a retail cannabis store.
5."Cannabis
product manufacturing facility" means an entity that is registered to
purchase cannabis, manufacture, prepare and package cannabis products and sell
cannabis and cannabis products to other cannabis product manufacturing
facilities and to retail cannabis stores, but not to consumers.
6."Cannabis
products" means concentrated cannabis products and cannabis products that
are composed of cannabis and other ingredients and that are intended for use or
consumption, including edible products, ointments and tinctures.
7."Cannabis
testing facility" means an entity that is registered to analyze and
certify the safety and potency of cannabis.
8."Consumer"
means a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who purchases
cannabis or cannabis products for personal use or use by persons who are at
least twentyone years of age, but not for resale to others.
9."Department"
means the department of health services.
10."Industrial
hemp" means the plant of the genus cannabis and any part of that plant,
whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that
does not exceed threetenths percent on a dry-weight basis.
11."Local
regulatory authority" means the office or entity that is designated by a
locality to process cannabis establishment applications.
12."Locality"
means a city, town or county.
13."Public
place" means any place to which the general public has access.
14."Retail
cannabis store" means an entity that is registered to purchase cannabis
from cannabis cultivation facilities and cannabis and cannabis products from
cannabis product manufacturing facilities and to sell cannabis and cannabis
products to consumers. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2822.Cannabis; personal use; forfeiture prohibited
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a person who is at
least twentyone years of age may:
1.Possess,
consume, use, display, purchase or transport cannabis accessories or one ounce
or less of cannabis.
2.Possess,
grow, process or transport not more than five cannabis plants and the cannabis
produced by the plants on the premises where the plants were grown.
3.Transfer,
without remuneration, one ounce or less of cannabis and not more than five
immature cannabis plants to a person who is at least twentyone years of
age.
4.Assist
another person who is at least twentyone years of age in any of the acts
described in this subsection.
B.Cannabis
and cannabis accessories that are in the possession of a person who is at least
twentyone years of age pursuant to subsection A of this section are not
subject to seizure or forfeiture in this state or any political subdivision of
this state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2823.Personal cultivation; requirements; civil penalty
A.It is
unlawful for a person who is at least twentyone years of age to
cultivate a cannabis plant unless:
1.The
cannabis plant is cultivated in a location where the plant is not subject to
public view without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aids.
2.The
person takes reasonable precautions to ensure that the plant is secure from
unauthorized access and access by a person who is under twentyone years
of age.
3.The
cannabis cultivation occurs only on property that is lawfully in possession of
the cultivator or with the consent of the person who is in lawful possession of
the property.
B.A person
who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2824.Public smoking prohibited; civil penalty
It is unlawful for a person to smoke cannabis in a public
place. A person who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty of not
more than two hundred fifty dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2825.False identification; violation; classification
A.A person
who is under twentyone years of age may not present or offer to a cannabis
establishment or the cannabis establishment's agent or employee any written
instrument or oral evidence of age that is false, fraudulent or not actually
the person's own for the purpose of either:
1.Purchasing,
attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure
cannabis.
2.Gaining
access to a cannabis establishment.
B.A person
who violates this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2826.Cannabis accessories
Notwithstanding any
other law, in this state and any political subdivision of this state, a person
who is at least twentyone years of age may manufacture, possess and
purchase cannabis accessories and distribute and sell cannabis accessories to a
person who is at least twentyone years of age. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2827.Cannabis establishments; authorization; limitation;
forfeiture prohibited
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, a retail cannabis store with a current and valid registration or
a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who is acting in the
person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a retail cannabis store
with a current and valid registration may do all of the following in this state
and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Possess,
display, store and transport cannabis and cannabis products if the cannabis and
cannabis products are not displayed in a manner that is visible to the general
public from a public rightofway.
2.Purchase
cannabis from a cannabis cultivation facility.
3.Purchase
cannabis and cannabis products from a cannabis product manufacturing facility.
4.Deliver,
distribute and sell cannabis and cannabis products to consumers.
5.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
B.Notwithstanding
any other law, a cannabis cultivation facility with a current and valid
registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who
is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a cannabis
cultivation facility with a current and valid registration may do all of the
following in this state and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Cultivate,
harvest, process, package, transport, display, store and possess cannabis.
2.Deliver
and transfer cannabis to a cannabis testing facility.
3.Deliver,
distribute and sell cannabis to a cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis
product manufacturing facility and a retail cannabis store.
4.Receive
and purchase cannabis from a cannabis cultivation facility.
5.Receive
cannabis seeds and immature cannabis plants from a person who is at least
twentyone years of age.
6.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
C.Notwithstanding
any other law, a cannabis product manufacturing facility with a current and
valid registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age
and who is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a
cannabis product manufacturing facility with a current and valid registration
may do all of the following in this state and any political subdivision of this
state:
1.Package,
process, transport, manufacture, display and possess cannabis and cannabis
products.
2.Deliver
and transfer cannabis and cannabis products to a cannabis testing facility.
3.Deliver
and sell cannabis and cannabis products to a retail cannabis store and a
cannabis product manufacturing facility.
4.Purchase
cannabis from a cannabis cultivation facility.
5.Purchase
cannabis and cannabis products from a cannabis product manufacturing facility.
6.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any person,
corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted lawfully
pursuant to this subsection.
D.Notwithstanding
any other law, a cannabis testing facility with a current and valid
registration or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who
is acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a cannabis
testing facility with a current and valid registration may do all of the
following in this state and any political subdivision of this state:
1.Possess,
cultivate, process, repackage, store, transport or display cannabis.
2.Receive
cannabis from a cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis retail store, a
cannabis product manufacturing facility or a person who is at least twentyone
years of age.
3.Return
cannabis to a cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis retail store, a
cannabis product manufacturing facility or a person who is at least twentyone
years of age.
4.Lease or
otherwise allow the use of property owned, occupied or controlled by any
person, corporation or other entity for any of the activities conducted
lawfully pursuant to this subsection.
E.A
cannabis cultivation facility may not produce cannabis concentrates, tinctures,
extracts or other cannabis products. A cannabis cultivation facility may not
use pesticides in the cultivation of cannabis.
F.Any item
that is lawfully in the possession of a cannabis establishment pursuant to this
section or a person who is at least twentyone years of age and who is
acting in the person's capacity as an owner, employee or agent of a cannabis
establishment pursuant to this section is not subject to seizure or forfeiture
in this state or any political subdivision of this state.
G.This
section does not prevent the imposition of penalties for violating this chapter
or rules adopted by the department or a locality pursuant to this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2828.Cannabis establishments; registration; application;
inspection
A.A
cannabis establishment shall submit to the department an application or renewal
application for an annual registration to operate. A renewal application may
be submitted up to ninety days before the expiration of the cannabis
establishment's registration.
B.The
department shall begin accepting and processing applications to operate
cannabis establishments one year after the effective date of this section.
C.On
receiving an application or renewal application for a cannabis establishment,
the department shall immediately forward a copy of each application and half of
the registration application fee to the local regulatory authority for the
locality in which the applicant desires to operate the cannabis establishment,
unless the locality has not designated a local regulatory authority.
D.At least
fortyfive but not more than ninety days after receiving an application
or renewal application for a cannabis establishment, the department shall issue
an annual registration to the applicant, unless the department finds that the
applicant is not in compliance with rules adopted by the department.
E.If an
application is denied, the department shall notify the applicant in writing of
the specific reason for the denial.
F.Every
applicant for a cannabis establishment registration shall specify the location
where the cannabis establishment will operate.A separate
registration is required for each location at which a cannabis establishment
operates.
G.The
department may inspect cannabis establishments and the books and records
maintained and created by cannabis establishments. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2829.Underage possession; forfeiture; drug awareness program;
civil penalty
Notwithstanding section
133405, a person who is under twentyone years of age and who is
found to possess one ounce or less of cannabis shall forfeit the cannabis and
complete not more than four hours of instruction in a drug awareness program.
If the person does not complete the drug awareness program within one year, the
person is subject to a civil penalty of not more than three hundred dollars. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2830.Applicability of chapter
This chapter does not:
1.Require
an employer to permit or accommodate the use, consumption, possession,
transfer, display, transportation, sale or growing of cannabis in the
workplace.
2.Affect
the ability of employers to have policies restricting the use of cannabis by
employees or to discipline employees who are under the influence of cannabis in
the workplace.
3.Allow
driving under the influence of cannabis or driving while impaired by cannabis
or supersede laws related to driving under the influence of cannabis or driving
while impaired by cannabis.
4.Permit
the transfer of cannabis, with or without remuneration, to a person who is
under twentyone years of age or allow a person who is under twentyone
years of age to purchase, possess, use, transport, grow or consume cannabis.
5.Prohibit
a person, employer, school, hospital, detention facility or corporation or any
other entity that occupies, owns or controls a property from prohibiting or otherwise
regulating the possession, consumption, use, display, transfer, distribution,
sale, transportation or growing of cannabis on or in that property.
6.Limit any
privileges or rights of a medical marijuana patient, primary caregiver or
medical marijuana dispensary under chapter 28.1 of this title. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2831.Research
Scientific and medical
researchers who have previously published may purchase, possess and securely
store cannabis for purposes of conducting research. Scientific and medical
researchers may administer and distribute cannabis to a research participant
who is at least twentyone years of age after receiving informed consent
from the research participant. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2832.Cannabis regulation fund; transfer 
The cannabis regulation
fund is established consisting of fees and taxes collected and civil penalties
imposed under this chapter. The department shall administer the fund and shall
use the monies in the fund for implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
Monies in the fund are continuously appropriated. Monies in the fund may not be
transferred to any other fund except as provided in section 423552. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE36-2833.Consumer privacy
To ensure that individual privacy is protected, the
department may not require a consumer to provide a retail cannabis store with
personal information other than governmentissued identification to
determine the consumer's age, and a retail cannabis store is not required to
acquire and record personal information about consumers. END_STATUTE
Sec. 2.Title 42, chapter 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 13, to read:
ARTICLE 13.CANNABIS
START_STATUTE42-3551.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Cannabis"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821.
2."Cannabis
cultivation facility" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821.
3."Cannabis
product manufacturing facility" has the same meaning prescribed in section
36-2821.
4."Retail
cannabis store" has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-2821. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE42-3552.Levy and collection of tax on cannabis; disposition of
monies
A.There is
levied and shall be collected by the department in the manner provided by this
chapter a tax at the rate of fifty dollars per ounce, or proportionate part thereof,
on the sale or transfer of cannabis from a cannabis cultivation facility to a
retail cannabis store or cannabis product manufacturing facility.
B.The
department of health services may adjust the rate annually to account for
inflation or deflation based on the consumer price index published by the
United States department of labor, bureau of labor statistics.
C.Notwithstanding
section 423102, the department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, monies levied and collected pursuant to this section in the
cannabis regulation fund established by section 362832.
D.The
department of revenue shall distribute, every three months, revenues generated
by the tax imposed pursuant to this section in excess of the amount needed to
implement and enforce title 36, chapter 28.2 in any fiscal year as follows:
1.Thirty
percent to the department of education.
2.Ten
percent to the department of health services for use in voluntary programs for
the treatment of alcohol, tobacco and cannabis abuse.
3.Ten
percent to the department of health services for a scientifically and medically
accurate public education campaign educating youth and adults about the health
and safety risks of alcohol, tobacco and cannabis.
4.Fifty
percent to the state general fund. END_STATUTE
Sec. 3.Rulemaking; definition
A.Not later than one
hundred eighty days after the effective date of this act, the department of
health services shall adopt rules necessary for implementation of this
act.The rules may not prohibit the operation of cannabis
establishments, either expressly or through rules that make the operation of a
cannabis establishment unreasonably impracticable.The rules shall
include:
1.Procedures for the issuance, renewal, suspension
and revocation of a registration to operate a cannabis establishment consistent
with the requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes.
2.A schedule of application, registration and
renewal fees. Application fees may not exceed five thousand dollars, adjusted
annually for inflation, unless the department determines a greater fee is
necessary to carry out the department's responsibilities under this act.
3.Qualifications for registration that are directly
and demonstrably related to the operation of a cannabis establishment.
4.Security requirements for cannabis
establishments, including for the transportation of cannabis by cannabis
establishments.
5.Requirements to prevent the sale or diversion of
cannabis and cannabis products to persons who are under twentyone years
of age.
6.Labeling requirements for cannabis and cannabis
products that are sold or distributed by a cannabis establishment.
7.Health and safety regulations and standards for
the manufacture of cannabis products and both the indoor and outdoor
cultivation of cannabis by cannabis establishments.
8.Restrictions on the advertising and display of
cannabis and cannabis products.
9.Civil penalties for the failure to comply with
rules adopted pursuant to this section.
10.Procedures for collecting taxes levied on
cannabis cultivation facilities.
B."Unreasonably impracticable" means that
the measures necessary to comply with the rules adopted by the department
require such a high investment of risk, money, time or any other resource or
asset that the operation of a cannabis establishment is not worth being carried
out in practice by a reasonably prudent businessperson.
Sec.4.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular
session.
Sec.5.Requirements for enactment; two-thirds
vote
Pursuant to article IX, section
22, Constitution of Arizona, this act is effective only on the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of the members of each house of the legislature and is
effective immediately on the signature of the governor or, if the governor
vetoes this act, on the subsequent affirmative vote of at least three-fourths
of the members of each house of the legislature.

