







REFERENCE TITLE: compact; balanced budget; convention







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2457









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mesnard, Borrelli, Cobb, Thorpe, Townsend, Weninger: Barton, Finchem,
  Mitchell





AN ACT

amending Title
41, chapter 2.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 2; relating to the
compact regarding a balanced budget amendment under article V of the united
states constitution.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
41, chapter 2.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 2, to
read:
ARTICLE
2.COMPACT FOR A BALANCED BUDGET
START_STATUTE41-451.Adoption of compact; text of compact
The compact for a balanced budget is
enacted into law as follows:
Compact for a balanced budget
The state of Arizona enacts, adopts and agrees to be bound by the
following compact:
ARTICLE I
DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE AND
INTENT
Whereas, every state enacting, adopting and agreeing to be bound by
this Compact intends to ensure that their respective Legislature's use of the
power to originate a balanced budget amendment under Article V of the
constitution of the United States will be exercised conveniently and with
reasonable certainty as to the consequences thereof.
Now, therefore, in consideration of their expressed mutual promises
and obligations, be it enacted by every State enacting, adopting and agreeing
to be bound by this Compact, and resolved by each of their respective
Legislatures, as the case may be, to exercise herewith all of their respective
powers as set forth herein notwithstanding any law to the contrary.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
Section1."Compact" means this
"Compact for a balanced budget."
Section2."Convention" means the
convention for proposing amendments organized by this Compact under Article V
of the Constitution of the United States and, where contextually appropriate to
ensure the terms of this Compact are not evaded, any other similar gathering or
body, which might be organized as a consequence of Congress receiving the
application set out in this Compact and claim authority to propose or
effectuate any amendment, alteration or revision to the constitution of the
United States.This
term does not encompass a convention for proposing amendments under article v
of the constitution of the United States that is organized independently of
this compact based on the separate and distinct application of any state.
Section3."State" means one of the
several states of the United States.Where contextually appropriate,
the term "State" shall be construed to include all of its branches,
departments, agencies, political subdivisions, and officers and representatives
acting in their official capacity.
Section4."Member State" means a State
that has enacted, adopted and agreed to be bound to this Compact. For any
State to qualify as a Member State with respect to any other State under this
Compact, each such State must have enacted, adopted and agreed to be bound by
substantively identical compact legislation.
Section5."Compact Notice Recipients"
means the Archivist of the United States, the President of the United States,
the President of the United States Senate, the Office of the Secretary of the
United States Senate, the Speaker of the United States House of
Representatives, the Office of the Clerk of the United States House of
Representatives, the chief executive officer of each State, and the presiding
officer(s) of each house of the Legislatures of the several States.
Section6.Notice. All notices required by this
Compact shall be by U.S. Certified Mail, return receipt requested, or an
equivalent or superior form of notice, such as personal delivery documented by
evidence of actual receipt.
Section7."Balanced Budget Amendment"
means the following:
"Article __
Section1.Total outlays of the government of the
United States shall not exceed total receipts of the government of the United
States at any point in time unless the excess of outlays over receipts is
financed exclusively by debt issued in strict conformity with this article.
Section2.Outstanding debt shall not exceed
authorized debt, which initially shall be an amount equal to 105 percent of the
outstanding debt on the effective date of this article. Authorized debt shall
not be increased above its aforesaid initial amount unless such increase is
first approved by the legislatures of the several states as provided in Section
3.
Section3.From time to time, Congress may increase
authorized debt to an amount in excess of its initial amount set by Section 2
only if it first publicly refers to the legislatures of the several states an
unconditional, single subject measure proposing the amount of such increase, in
such form as provided by law, and the measure is thereafter publicly and
unconditionally approved by a simple majority of the legislatures of the
several states, in such form as provided respectively by state law; provided
that no inducement requiring an expenditure or tax levy shall be demanded,
offered or accepted as a quid pro quo for such approval. If such approval is
not obtained within sixty (60) calendar days after referral then the measure
shall be deemed disapproved and the authorized debt shall thereby remain
unchanged.
Section4.Whenever the outstanding debt exceeds 98
percent of the debt limit set by Section 2, the President shall enforce said
limit by publicly designating specific expenditures for impoundment in an
amount sufficient to ensure outstanding debt shall not exceed the authorized
debt.Said impoundment shall become effective thirty (30) days
thereafter, unless Congress first designates an alternate impoundment of the
same or greater amount by concurrent resolution, which shall become immediately
effective. The failure of the President to designate or enforce the required
impoundment is an impeachable misdemeanor. Any purported issuance or
incurrence of any debt in excess of the debt limit set by Section 2 is void.
Section5.No bill that provides for a new or
increased general revenue tax shall become law unless approved by a two-thirds
roll call vote of the whole number of each House of Congress. However, this
requirement shall not apply to any bill that provides for a new end user sales
tax which would completely replace every existing income tax levied by the
government of the United States; or for the reduction or elimination of an
exemption, deduction, or credit allowed under an existing general revenue tax.
Section6.For purposes of this article,
"debt" means any obligation backed by the full faith and credit of
the government of the United States; "outstanding debt" means all
debt held in any account and by any entity at a given point in time;
"authorized debt" means the maximum total amount of debt that may be
lawfully issued and outstanding at any single point in time under this article;
"total outlays of the government of the United States" means all
expenditures of the government of the United States from any source;
"total receipts of the government of the United States" means all tax
receipts and other income of the government of the United States, excluding
proceeds from its issuance or incurrence of debt or any type of liability;
"impoundment" means a proposal not to spend all or part of a sum of
money appropriated by congress; and "general revenue tax" means any
income tax, sales tax, or value-added tax levied by the government of the United
States excluding imposts and duties.
Section7.This article is immediately operative
upon ratification, self-enforcing, and Congress may enact conforming
legislation to facilitate enforcement."
ARTICLE
III
COMPACT
MEMBERSHIP AND WITHDRAWAL
Section1.This Compact governs each Member State to
the fullest extent permitted by their respective constitutions, superseding and
repealing any conflicting or contrary law.
Section2.By becoming a Member State, each such
State offers, promises and agrees to perform and comply strictly in accordance
with the terms and conditions of this Compact, and has made such offer, promise
and agreement in anticipation and consideration of, and in substantial reliance
upon, such mutual and reciprocal performance and compliance by each other current
and future Member State, if any. Accordingly, in addition to having the force
of law in each Member State upon its respective effective date, this Compact
and each of its Articles shall also be construed as contractually binding each
Member State when:
(a)At
least one other State has likewise become a Member State by enacting
substantively identical legislation adopting and agreeing to be bound by this
Compact; and
(b)Notice
of such State's Member State status is or has been seasonably received by the
Compact Administrator, if any, or otherwise by the chief executive officer of
each other Member State.
Section3.For purposes of determining Member State
status under this Compact, as long as all other provisions of the Compact
remain identical and operative on the same terms, legislation enacting,
adopting and agreeing to be bound by this Compact shall be deemed and regarded
as "substantively identical" with respect to such other legislation
enacted by another State notwithstanding:
(a)any
difference in section 2 of Article IV with specific regard to the respectively
enacting State's own method of appointing its member to the Commission;
(b)any
difference in section 5 of Article IV with specific regard to the respectively
enacting State's own obligation to fund the Commission;
(c)any
difference in sections 1 and 2 of Article VI with specific regard to the number
and identity of each delegate respectively appointed on behalf of the enacting
State, provided that no more than three delegates may attend and participate in
the Convention on behalf of any State; or
(d)any
difference in section 7 of Article X with specific regard to the respectively
enacting State as to whether section 1 of Article V of this Compact shall
survive termination of the Compact, and thereafter become a continuing
resolution of the Legislature of such State applying to Congress for the
calling of a convention of the states under Article V of the Constitution of
the United States, under such terms and limitations as may be specified by such
State.
Section4.When fewer than three-fourths of the
States are Member States, any Member State may withdraw from this Compact by
enacting appropriate legislation, as determined by state law, and giving notice
of such withdrawal to the Compact Administrator, if any, or otherwise to the
chief executive officer of each other Member State.A withdrawal
shall not affect the validity or applicability of the compact with respect to
remaining Member States, provided that there remain at least two such States.
However, once at least three-fourths of the States are Member States, then no
Member State may withdraw from the Compact prior to its termination absent
unanimous consent of all Member States.
ARTICLE IV
COMPACT COMMISSION AND COMPACT ADMINISTRATOR
Section1.Nature of the Compact
Commission.The Compact Commission ("Commission") is
hereby established. It has the power and duty:
(a)To
appoint and oversee a Compact Administrator;
(b)To
encourage States to join the Compact and Congress to call the convention in
accordance with this Compact;
(c)To
coordinate the performance of obligations under the Compact;
(d)To
oversee the convention's logistical operations as appropriate to ensure this
Compact governs its proceedings;
(e)To
oversee the defense and enforcement of the Compact in appropriate legal venues;
(f)To
request funds and to disburse those funds to support the operations of the
Commission, Compact Administrator, and Convention; and
(g)To
cooperate with any entity that shares a common interest with the Commission and
engages in policy research, public interest litigation or lobbying in support
of the purposes of the Compact.
The
Commission shall only have such implied powers as are essential to carrying out
these express powers and duties. It shall take no action that contravenes or
is inconsistent with this Compact or any law of any State that is not
superseded by this Compact. It may adopt and publish corresponding bylaws and
policies.
Section2.Commission Membership. The Commission
initially consists of three unpaid members. Each Member State may appoint one
member to the Commission through an appointment process to be determined by
their respective chief executive officer until all positions on the Commission
are filled. Positions shall be assigned to appointees in the order in which
their respective appointing States became Member States. The bylaws of the
Commission may expand its membership to include representatives of additional
Member States and to allow for modest salaries and reimbursement of expenses if
adequate funding exists.
Section3.Commission Action. Each Commission
member is entitled to one vote. The Commission shall not act unless a majority
of its appointed membership is present, and no action shall be binding unless
approved by a majority of the Commission's appointed membership. The
Commission shall meet at least once a year, and may meet more frequently.
Section4.First Order of Business. The Commission
shall at the earliest possible time elect from among its membership a
Chairperson, determine a primary place of doing business, and appoint a Compact
Administrator.
Section5.Funding. The Commission and the Compact
Administrator's activities shall be funded exclusively by each Member State, as
determined by their respective state law, or by voluntary donations.
Section6.Compact Administrator. The Compact
Administrator has the power and duty:
(a)To
timely notify the States of the date, time and location of the Convention;
(b)To
organize and direct the logistical operations of the Convention;
(c)To
maintain an accurate list of all Member States, their appointed delegates,
including contact information; and
(d)To
formulate, transmit, and maintain all official notices, records, and
communications relating to this Compact.
The
Compact Administrator shall only have such implied powers as are essential to
carrying out these express powers and duties; and shall take no action that
contravenes or is inconsistent with this Compact or any law of any State that
is not superseded by this Compact. The Compact Administrator serves at the
pleasure of the Commission and must keep the Commission seasonably apprised of
the performance or nonperformance of the terms and conditions of this Compact.
Any notice sent by a Member State to the Compact Administrator concerning this
Compact shall be adequate notice to each other Member State provided that a
copy of said notice is seasonably delivered by the Compact Administrator to
each other Member State's respective chief executive officer.
Section7.Notice of Key Events.Upon the
occurrence of each of the following described events, or otherwise as soon as
possible, the Compact Administrator shall immediately send the following
notices to all Compact Notice Recipients, together with certified conforming
copies of the chaptered version of this Compact as maintained in the statutes
of each Member State:
(a)Whenever
any State becomes a Member State, notice of that fact shall be given;
(b)Once
at least three-fourths of the States are Member States, notice of that fact
shall be given together with a statement declaring that the Legislatures of at
least two-thirds of the several States have applied for a convention for
proposing amendments under Article V of the constitution of the United States,
petitioning Congress to call the Convention contemplated by this Compact, and
further requesting cooperation in organizing the same in accordance with this
Compact;
(c)Once
Congress has called the Convention contemplated by this Compact, and whenever
the date, time and location of the Convention has been determined, notice of
that fact shall be given together with the date, time and location of the
Convention and other essential logistical matters;
(d)Upon
approval of the Balanced Budget Amendment by the Convention, notice of that
fact shall be given together with the transmission of certified copies of such
approved proposed amendment and a statement requesting Congress to refer the
same for ratification by three-fourths of the Legislatures of the several
States under Article V of the constitution of the United States (however, in no
event shall any proposed amendment other than the Balanced Budget Amendment be
transmitted); and
(e)When
any Article of this Compact prospectively ratifying the Balanced Budget
Amendment is effective in any Member State, notice of the same shall be given
together with a statement declaring such ratification and further requesting
cooperation in ensuring that the official record confirms and reflects the
effective corresponding amendment to the constitution of the United States.
However,
whenever any Member State enacts appropriate legislation, as determined by the
laws of the respective state, withdrawing from this Compact, the Compact
Administrator shall immediately send certified conforming copies of the
chaptered version of such withdrawal legislation as maintained in the statutes
of each such withdrawing Member State, solely to each chief executive officer
of each remaining Member State, giving notice of such withdrawal.
Section8.Cooperation.The Commission,
Member States and Compact Administrator shall cooperate with each other and
give each other mutual assistance in enforcing this Compact and shall give the
chief law enforcement officer of each other Member State any information or
documents that are reasonably necessary to facilitate the enforcement of this
Compact.
Section9.This Article does not take effect until
there are at least two Member States.
ARTICLE V
RESOLUTION APPLYING FOR CONVENTION
Section1.Be it resolved, as provided for in
Article V of the Constitution of the United States, the Legislature of each
Member State herewith applies to Congress for the calling of a convention for
proposing amendments limited to the subject matter of proposing for
ratification the balanced budget amendment.
Section2.Congress is further petitioned to refer
the Balanced Budget Amendment to the States for ratification by three-fourths
of their respective Legislatures.
Section3.This Article does not take effect until
at least threefourths of the several States are Member States.
ARTICLE
VI
DELEGATE
APPOINTMENT, LIMITATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section1.Number
of Delegates.This Member State shall be entitled to three delegates
to represent its sovereign interests at the Convention.
Section2.Identity.The
Governor, Speaker of the House of Representatives and President of the Senate
of this Member State on the enactment date of this Compact, or their respective
designee, as identified in a sworn affidavit executed by such officer, are each
appointed in an individual capacity to represent this Member State at the
Convention as its sole and exclusive delegates. A majority vote of this
delegation shall serve to decide any issue at the Conventionon behalf of
this Member State.
Section3.Replacement or Recall of Delegates. A
delegate appointed hereunder may be replaced or recalled by the Legislature of
his or her respective State at any time for good cause, such as criminal misconduct
or the violation of this Compact. If replaced or recalled, any delegate
previously appointed hereunder must immediately vacate the Convention and
return to their respective State's capitol.
Section4.Oath.The power and authority
of a delegate under this Article may only be exercised after the convention is
first called by congress in accordance with this compact and such appointment
is duly accepted by such appointee publicly taking the following oath or
affirmation: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I accept this
appointment and will act strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Compact for a balanced budget, the Constitution of the State I
represent, and the constitution of the United States. I understand that violating
this oath (or affirmation) forfeits my appointment and may subject me to other
penalties as provided by law."
Section5.Term.The term of a delegate
hereunder commences upon acceptance of appointment and terminates upon the
permanent adjournment of the Convention, unless shortened by recall,
replacement or forfeiture under this Article. Upon expiration of such term,
any person formerly serving as a delegate must immediately withdraw from and
cease participation at the Convention, if any is proceeding.
Section6.Delegate Authority.The power
and authority of any delegate appointed hereunder is strictly limited:
(a)To
introducing, debating, voting upon, proposing and enforcing the Convention
Rules specified in this Compact, as needed to ensure those rules govern the
Convention; and
(b)To
introducing, debating, voting upon, and rejecting or proposing for ratification
the Balanced Budget Amendment.
All actions taken by
any delegate in violation of this section are void ab initio.
Section7.Delegate authority.No delegate of any Member State may
introduce, debate, vote upon, reject or propose for ratification any
constitutional amendment at the Convention unless:
(a)The
Convention Rules specified in this Compact govern the Convention and their actions;
and
(b)The
constitutional amendment is the Balanced Budget Amendment.
Section8.Delegate authority.the power and authority of any delegate
at the Convention does not include any power or authority associated with any
other public office held by the delegate. Any person appointed to serve as a
delegate shall take a temporary leave of absence, or otherwise shall be deemed
temporarily disabled, from any other public office held by the delegate while
attending the Convention, and may not exercise any power or authority
associated with any other public office held by the delegate while attending
the Convention. All actions taken by any delegate in violation of this section
are void ab initio.
Section9.Order of Business.Before
introducing, debating, voting upon, rejecting or proposing for ratification any
constitutional amendment at the Convention, each delegate of every Member State
must first ensure the Convention Rules in this Compact govern the Convention
and their actions. Every delegate and each Member State must immediately vacate
the Convention and notify the Compact Administrator by the most effective and
expeditious means if the Convention Rules in this Compact are not adopted to
govern the Convention and their actions.
Section10.Forfeiture of Appointment.If
any Member State or delegate violates any provision of this Compact, then every
delegate of that Member State immediately forfeits his or her appointment, and
shall immediately cease participation at the Convention, vacate the Convention,
and return to his or her respective State's capitol.
Section11.Expenses.A delegate
appointed hereunder is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses for
attending the Convention from his or her respective Member State.No
delegate may accept any other form of remuneration or compensation for service
under this Compact.
ARTICLE
VII
CONVENTION
RULES
Section1.Nature of the Convention.The
Convention shall be organized, construed and conducted as a body exclusively
representing and constituted by the several States.
Section2.Agenda of the Convention.The
agenda of the Convention shall be entirely focused upon and exclusively limited
to introducing, debating, voting upon, and rejecting or proposing for
ratification the Balanced Budget Amendment under the Convention Rules specified
in this Article and in accordance with the Compact. It shall not be in order
for the Convention to consider any matter that is outside the scope of this
agenda.
Section3.Delegate Identity and Procedure.States
shall be represented at the Convention through duly appointed delegates. The
number, identity and authority of delegates assigned to each State shall be
determined by this Compact in the case of Member States or, in the case of
States that are not Member States, by their respective state
laws.However, to prevent disruption of proceedings, no more than
three delegates may attend and participate in the Convention on behalf of any
State.A certified chaptered conforming copy of this Compact, together
with government-issued photographic proof of identification, shall suffice as
credentials for delegates of Member States. Any commission for delegates of
States that are not Member States shall be based on their respective state
laws, but it shall furnish credentials that are at least as reliable as those
required of Member States.
Section4.Voting.Each State represented
at the Convention shall have one vote, exercised by the vote of that State's
delegate in the case of States represented by one delegate, or, in the case of
any State that is represented by more than one delegate, by the majority vote
of that State's respective delegates.
Section5.Quorum.A majority of the
several States of the United States, each present through its respective delegate
in the case of any State that is represented by one delegate, or through a
majority of its respective delegates, in the case of any State that is
represented by more than one delegate, shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business on behalf of the Convention.
Section6.Action by the Convention.The
Convention shall only act as a committee of the whole, chaired by the delegate
representing the first State to have become a Member State, if that state is
represented by one delegate, or otherwise by the delegate chosen by the
majority vote of that state's respective delegates. The transaction of any
business on behalf of the Convention, including the designation of a Secretary,
the adoption of parliamentary procedures and the rejection or proposal of any
constitutional amendment, requires a quorum to be present and a majority
affirmative vote of those States constituting the quorum.
Section7.Emergency Suspension and Relocation of
the Convention.In the event that the Chair of the Convention
declares an emergency due to disorder or an imminent threat to public health
and safety prior to the completion of the business on the Agenda, and a
majority of the States present at the Convention do not object to such
declaration, further Convention proceedings shall be temporarily suspended, and
the Commission shall subsequently relocate or reschedule the Convention to
resume proceedings in an orderly fashion in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Compact with prior notice given to the Compact Notice
Recipients.
Section8.Parliamentary Procedure.In
adopting, applying and formulating parliamentary procedure, the Convention
shall exclusively adopt, apply or appropriately adapt provisions of the most
recent editions of Robert's Rules of Order and the American Institute of
Parliamentarians Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure. In adopting,
applying or adapting parliamentary procedure, the Convention shall exclusively
consider analogous precedent arising within the jurisdiction of the United
States. Parliamentary procedures adopted, applied or adapted pursuant to this
section shall not obstruct, override or otherwise conflict with this Compact.
Section9.Transmittal.Upon approval of
the Balanced Budget Amendment by the Convention to propose for ratification,
the Chair of the Convention shall immediately transmit certified copies of such
approved proposed amendment to the Compact Administrator and all Compact Notice
Recipients, notifying them respectively of such approval and requesting
Congress to refer the same for ratification by the States under Article V of
the constitution of the United States. However, in no event shall any proposed
amendment other than the Balanced Budget Amendment be transmitted as aforesaid.
Section10.Transparency.Records of the
Convention, including the identities of all attendees and detailed minutes of
all proceedings, shall be kept by the Chair of the Convention or Secretary
designated by the Convention. All proceedings and records of the Convention
shall be open to the public upon request subject to reasonable regulations
adopted by the Convention that are closely tailored to preventing disruption of
proceedings under this Article.
Section11.Adjournment of the
Convention.The Convention shall permanently adjourn upon the
earlier of twenty-four hours after commencing proceedings under this Article or
the completion of the business on its Agenda.
ARTICLE VIII
PROHIBITION ON ULTRA VIRES
CONVENTION
Section1.Member States shall not participate in
the Convention unless:
(a)Congress
first calls the Convention in accordance with this Compact; and
(b)the
Convention Rules of this Compact are adopted by the Convention as its first
order of business.
Section2.Any proposal or action of the Convention
is void ab initio and issued by a body that is conducting itself in an unlawful
and ultra vires fashion if that proposal or action:
(a)violates
or was approved in violation of the Convention Rules or the DELEGATE
INSTRUCTIONS AND limitations on delegate authority specified in this Compact;
(b)purports
to propose or effectuate a mode of ratification that is not specified in
Article V of the CONSTITUTION OF THE United States; or
(c)purports
to propose or effectuate the formation of a new government.
All Member
States are prohibited from advancing or assisting in the advancement of any
such proposal or action.
Section3.Member States shall not ratify or
otherwise approve any proposed amendment, alteration or revision to the
CONSTITUTION OF THE United States, which originates from the Convention, other
than the Balanced Budget Amendment.
ARTICLE IX
RESOLUTION PROSPECTIVELY RATIFYING
THE
BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT
Section1.Each Member State, by and through its
respective Legislature, hereby adopts and ratifies the Balanced Budget
Amendment.
Section2.This Article does not take effect until
Congress effectively refers the Balanced Budget Amendment to the States for
ratification by three-fourths of the Legislatures of the several States under
Article V of the Constitution of the United States.
ARTICLE X
CONSTRUCTION, ENFORCEMENT, VENUE,
AND SEVERABILITY
Section1.To the extent that the effectiveness of
this Compact or any of its Articles or provisions requires the alteration of
local legislative rules, drafting policies, or procedure to be effective, the
enactment of legislation enacting, adopting and agreeing to be bound by this
Compact shall be deemed to waive, repeal, supersede, or otherwise amend and
conform all such rules, policies or procedures to allow for the effectiveness
of this Compact to the fullest extent permitted by the constitution of any
affected Member State.
Section2.Date and Location of the Convention.
Unless otherwise specified by Congress in its call, the Convention shall be
held in Dallas, Texas and commence proceedings at 9:00 a.m. Central Standard
Time on the sixth Wednesday after the latter of the effective date of Article V
of this Compact or the enactment date of the Congressional resolution calling
the Convention.
Section3.In addition to all other powers and
duties conferred by state law which are consistent with the terms and
conditions of this Compact, the chief law enforcement officer of each Member
State is empowered to defend the Compact from any legal challenge, as well as
to seek civil mandatory and prohibitory injunctive relief to enforce this
Compact; and shall take such action whenever the Compact is challenged or
violated.
Section4.The exclusive venue for all actions in
any way arising under this Compact shall be in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Texas or the courts of the State of Texas within
the jurisdictional boundaries of the foregoing district court. Each Member
State shall submit to the jurisdiction of said courts with respect to such
actions. However, upon written request by the chief law enforcement officer of
any Member State, the Commission may elect to waive this provision for the
purpose of ensuring an action proceeds in the venue that allows for the most
convenient and effective enforcement or defense of this Compact.Any
such waiver shall be limited to the particular action to which it is applied
and not construed or relied upon as a general waiver of this
provision.The waiver decisions of the Commission under this
provision shall be final and binding on each Member State.
Section5.The effective date of this Compact and
any of its Articles is the latter of: (a) the date of any event rendering the same effective
according to its respective terms and conditions; or (b) the earliest date otherwise
permitted by law.
Section6.Article VIII of this Compact is hereby
deemed nonseverable PRIOR TO TERMINATION OF THE COMPACT. However, if
any other phrase, clause, sentence or provision of this Compact, or the applicability
of any other phrase, clause, sentence or provision of this Compact to any
government, agency, person or circumstance, is declared in a final judgment to
be contrary to the CONSTITUTION OF THE United States, contrary to the state
constitution of any Member State, or is otherwise held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such phrase, clause, sentence or provision shall be
severed and held for naught, and the validity of the remainder of this Compact
and the applicability of the remainder of this Compact to any government,
agency, person or circumstance shall not be affected. Furthermore, if this
Compact is declared in a final judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be entirely contrary to the state constitution of any Member State or otherwise
entirely invalid as to any Member State, such Member State shall be deemed to
have withdrawn from the Compact, and the Compact shall remain in full force and
effect as to any remaining Member State. Finally, if this Compact is declared
in a final judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to be wholly or
substantially in violation of Article I, Section 10, of the CONSTITUTION OF THE
United States, then it shall be construed and enforced solely as reciprocal
legislation enacted by the affected Member States.
Section7.Termination.This
Compact shall terminate and be held for naught when the compact is fully
performed and the Constitution of the United States is amended by the Balanced
Budget Amendment.However, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this
Compact, in the event such amendment does not occur within seven (7) years
after the first State passes legislation enacting, adopting and agreeing to be
bound to this Compact, the Compact shall terminate as follows:
(a)the
Commission shall dissolve and wind up its operations within ninety (90) days
thereafter, with the Compact Administrator giving notice of such dissolution
and the operative effect of this section to the Compact Notice Recipients; and
(b)upon
the completed dissolution of the Commission, this Compact shall be deemed
terminated, repealed, void ab initio, and held for naught. END_STATUTE

