







REFERENCE TITLE: limited service pregnancy centers;
  licensure







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2409









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Alston, Bolding, Cardenas, Espinoza, Larkin, Plumlee: Andrade, Clark,
  Fernandez, Friese, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Hale, Otondo, Rios, Velasquez, Wheeler





AN ACT

Amending section
36422, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to outpatient treatment center
licensure.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-422, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-422.Application for license; notification of proposed change
in status; joint licenses; definitions
A.A person who wishes to apply for an initial
license or to renew a license to operate a health care institution pursuant to
this chapter shall file with the department an application on a written or electronic
form that is prescribed, prepared and furnished by the department. The
application shall contain the following:
1.The name and location of the health care
institution.
2.Whether it is to be operated as a proprietary or
nonproprietary institution.
3.The name of the governing
authority.The applicant shall be the governing authority having the
operative ownership of, or the governmental agency charged with the
administration of, the health care institution sought to be licensed.If
the applicant is a partnership that is not a limited partnership, the partners
shall make the application jointly, and the partners are jointly the governing
authority for purposes of this article.
4.The name and business or residential address of
each controlling person and an affirmation that none of the controlling persons
has been denied a license or certificate by a health profession regulatory
board pursuant to title 32 or by a state agency pursuant to chapter 6, article
7 or chapter 17 of this title or a license to operate a health care institution
in this state or another state or has had a license or certificate issued by a
health profession regulatory board pursuant to title 32 or issued by a state
agency pursuant to chapter 6, article 7 or chapter 17 of this title or a
license to operate a health care institution revoked.If a
controlling person has been denied a license or certificate by a health
profession regulatory board pursuant to title 32 or by a state agency pursuant
to chapter 6, article 7 or chapter 17 of this title or a license to operate a
health care institution in this state or another state or has had a health care
professional license or a license to operate a health care institution revoked,
the controlling person shall include in the application a comprehensive
description of the circumstances for the denial or the revocation.
5.The class or
subclass of health care institution to be established or operated.
6.The types and extent of the health care services
to be provided, including emergency services, community health services and
services to indigent patients.
7.The name and qualifications of the chief
administrative officer implementing direction in that specific health care
institution.
8.Other pertinent information required by the
department for the proper administration of this chapter and department rules.
B.An application filed pursuant to this section
shall contain the written or electronic signature of:
1.If
the applicant is an individual, the owner of the health care institution.
2.If the applicant is a partnership, limited
liability company or corporation, two of the officers of the corporation or
managing members of the partnership or limited liability company or the sole
member of the limited liability company if it has only one member.
3.If the applicant is a governmental unit, the head
of the governmental unit.
C.An application for licensure or relicensure shall
be filed at least sixty but not more than one hundred twenty days before the
anticipated operation or the expiration date of the current license. An
application for a substantial compliance survey submitted pursuant to section
36425, subsection G shall be filed at least thirty days before the date
on which the substantial compliance survey is requested.
D.If a current licensee intends to terminate the
operation of a licensed health care institution or if a change of ownership is
planned either during or at the expiration of the term of the license, the
current licensee shall notify the director in writing at least thirty days
before the termination of operation or change in ownership is to take
place.The current licensee is responsible for preventing any
interruption of services required to sustain the life, health and safety of the
patients or residents. A new owner shall not begin operating the health care
institution until the director issues a license.
E.A licensed health care institution for which
operations have not been terminated for more than thirty days may be relicensed
pursuant to the standards that were applicable under its most recent license.
F.If a person operates a hospital in a county with
a population of more than five hundred thousand persons in a setting that
includes satellite facilities of the hospital that are located separately from
the main hospital building, the department at the request of the applicant or
licensee shall issue a single group license to the hospital and its designated
satellite facilities located within onehalf mile of the main hospital
building if all of the facilities meet or exceed department licensure
requirements for the designated facilities.At the request of the
applicant or licensee, the department shall also issue a single group license
that includes the hospital and not more than ten of its designated satellite
facilities that are located farther than onehalf mile from the main
hospital building if all of these facilities meet or exceed applicable
department licensure requirements. Each facility included under a single group
license is subject to the department's licensure requirements that are
applicable to that category of facility. Subject to compliance with applicable
licensure or accreditation requirements, the department shall reissue
individual licenses for the facility of a hospital located in separate
buildings from the main hospital building when requested by the hospital. This
subsection does not apply to nursing care institutions and residential care
institutions.The department is not limited in conducting inspections
of an accredited health care institution to ensure that the institution meets
department licensure requirements. If a person operates a hospital in a county
with a population of five hundred thousand persons or less in a setting that
includes satellite facilities of the hospital that are located separately from
the main hospital building, the department at the request of the applicant or
licensee shall issue a single group license to the hospital and its designated
satellite facilities located within thirty-five miles of the main hospital
building if all of the facilities meet or exceed department licensure
requirements for the designated facilities. At the request of the applicant or
licensee, the department shall also issue a single group license that includes the
hospital and not more than ten of its designated satellite facilities that are
located farther than thirty-five miles from the main hospital building if all
of these facilities meet or exceed applicable department licensure
requirements.
G.If a county with a population of more than one
million persons or a special health care district in a county with a population
of more than one million persons operates an accredited hospital that includes
the hospital's accredited facilities that are located separately from the main
hospital building and the accrediting body's standards as applied to all
facilities meet or exceed the department's licensure requirements, the
department shall issue a single license to the hospital and its facilities if
requested to do so by the hospital.If a hospital complies with
applicable licensure or accreditation requirements, the department shall
reissue individual licenses for each hospital facility that is located in a
separate building from the main hospital building if requested to do so by the
hospital.This subsection does not limit the department's duty to
inspect a health care institution to determine its compliance with department
licensure standards. This subsection does not apply to nursing care institutions
and residential care institutions.
H.An applicant or licensee must notify the
department within thirty days after any change regarding a controlling person
and provide the information and affirmation required pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 4 of this section.
I.This section does not limit the application of
federal laws and regulations to an applicant or licensee certified as a
medicare or an Arizona health care cost containment system provider under
federal law.
J.Except for an outpatient treatment center
providing dialysis services or abortion procedures, a person wishing to begin
operating an outpatient treatment center before an initial licensing inspection
is completed shall submit all of the following:
1.The initial license application required pursuant
to this section.
2.All applicable application and license fees.
3.A written request
for a temporary license that includes:
(a)The anticipated
date of operation.
(b)An attestation signed by the applicant that the
applicant and the facility comply with and will continue to comply with the
applicable licensing statutes and rules.
K.A limited
service pregnancy center operating in this state shall be licensed as an
outpatient treatment center pursuant to subsection J of this section.
K.L.Within
seven days of the department's receipt of the items required in subsection J of
this section, but not before the anticipated operation date submitted in
subsection C of this section, the department shall issue a temporary license
that includes:
1.The name of the facility.
2.The name of the licensee.
3.The facility's class or subclass.
4.The temporary license's effective date.
5.The location of the licensed premises.
L.M.A
facility may begin operating on the effective date of the temporary license.
M.N.The
director may cease the issuance of temporary licenses at any time if the
director believes that public health and safety is endangered.
N.O.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Accredited" means accredited by a
nationally recognized accreditation organization.
2."Limited
service pregnancy center":
(a)Means an
organization, including a pregnancy counseling organization or crisis pregnancy
center, that for a fee or free of charge provides pregnancy counseling or
information but does not perform abortions or make referrals to an abortion
provider and is not currently licensed or certified by this state or the
federal government to provide medical or health care services. 
(b)Does not include a health care
provider, a hospital, an abortion clinic or a family planning clinic that
performs abortions, provides contraception or provides abortion or
contraception referrals.
2.3."Satellite
facility" means an outpatient facility at which the hospital provides
outpatient medical services. END_STATUTE

