







REFERENCE TITLE: student, teacher data collection;
  prohibitions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2582









Introduced by
Representatives
  Lovas: Livingston





AN ACT

amending Title 15,
chapter 9, article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-1046;
relating to student and teacher data.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 9, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-1046, to read:
START_STATUTE15-1046.Student and teacher data; transparency and accountability;
civil penalties; definition
A.Notwithstanding any other law, this state
affirms the parent or guardian as the final authority in all matters regarding
the education, health care and mental health of the parent's or guardian's
student and prohibits the access, release or sharing of personally identifiable
information, student level data or any information about students without a
written explanation of why the information is being requested and for what
purposes it will be used. Before any data collection, written consent of the
parent or guardian is required.
B.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department of education and schools may not collect any
personally identifiable information on any student or teacher without receiving
prior written consent, and only after providing the parent, guardian or teacher
with a written explanation of why the information is being requested and for
what purpose. the department and schools shall establish Procedures to notify
teachers, students and parents regarding the rights of teachers, students and
parents or guardians under federal and state law.
C.This
state may not share any student's personally identifiable information with any
federal agency, any federal personnel or any nongovernmental entity, including
vendors, contractors and subcontractors, without obtaining prior written
consent from the student's parent or guardian.
D.A
governmental entity may not discriminate in any manner against a parent,
guardian, student or school employee who chooses not to provide prior written
consent pursuant to this section.
E.Notwithstanding
any other law, a state or national student assessment may not be adopted or
administered in this state that collects any type of psychological data,
including assessment of noncognitive skills or attributes, psychological attributes,
feelings, emotions, values, appreciations, enthusiasms, motivations, mindsets,
learning strategies, attitudes, beliefs, dispositions, conceptions of self,
social skills, interpersonal skills, intrapersonal resources or other aspects
of the affective domain.
F.Notwithstanding
any other law, any state or national test used in this state to measure student
academic achievement must meet minimal standards specified in a nationally
recognized publication concerning Educational and Psychological Testing. The reliability
and validity of any state or national norm-referenced achievement test must be
established by independent reports in academic journals or independent reports
before that test may be adopted or administered in this state.
G.Notwithstanding
any other law, the state board of education, the department of education and
any other state entity may not spend any monies, whether from state, federal or
private sources, on further construction, enhancement or expansion of any
statewide longitudinal data system designed to track students beyond grade
twelve or compile personal, nonacademic information beyond what is necessary
either for administrative functions directly related to students' schooling or
for evaluation of academic programs and student progress.
H.Notwithstanding
any other law, the state board of education, the arizona department of
education, the data governance commission and any political subdivision of this
state may not share any personally identifiable information of students and
teachers with the United States department of education. This subsection does
not prohibit the sharing of aggregated data.
I.Notwithstanding
any other law, the arizona department of education shall require every
recipient of a federal grant to do the following:
1.Obtain
prior written consent from the teacher or the student's parent or guardian and
retain the signed consent forms for the duration of the project.
2.Provide
written notification to the parents or guardians of every student whose data
will be shared and to every teacher whose data will be shared of all of the
following:
(a)That the recipient of the
federal grant may not turn over the student's or teacher's data to the United
States department of education.
(b)That neither the recipient of the
federal grant nor any other entity in this state will have control over the use
or further sharing of that data.
(c)The contact information,
including the telephone number and e-mail address, of the United States
department of education official who demands the data.
(d)The way in which the data will
be used.
J.Notwithstanding
any other law, to ensure transparency of data collected or used in this state,
the department of education shall:
1.Develop
and make publicly available to the people of this state, by posting on the
website of the data governance commission with a link to the website of the
department of education, a data inventory and index of data elements with
definitions of each data field in the system that includes all of the following:
(a)Any personally identifiable
student level data required to be reported by state and federal law.
(b)Any other personally
identifiable student level data that has been proposed for inclusion in the
student data system and a statement of purpose or reason for the proposed
collection.
(c)Any individual student level
data that the department collects or maintains with no stated current purpose
or reason.
(d)A description of the procedures
by which a parent or guardian may review the student's records and correct any
erroneous information. 
2.Develop,
publish and make available to the people of this state, by posting on the
website of the data governance commission with a link to the website of the
department of education, policies and procedures that comply with the family
educational rights and privacy act of 1974 and other relevant privacy laws and
policies, including policies and procedures that specify that Access to
personally identifiable student level data in any current statewide data system
is restricted to:
(a)The authorized staff of the
department of education and any of the department's contractors that require
such access.
(b)District administrators,
teachers and school personnel who require such access to perform assigned
duties.
(c)Students and their parents or
guardians for their own data.
(d)The authorized staff of other
state agencies in this state as required by law and defined by interagency data
sharing agreements.
K.Notwithstanding
any other law, personally identifiable student level data maintained by the
department of education shall remain confidential. The department shall use
only aggregate data in public reports or in response to public record requests.
L.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department of education and the data GOVERNANCE commission
shall develop criteria for the approval of research and data requests from
state and local agencies, the legislature, researchers and the public that
provide student level records with all personally identifiable student level
data removed.In all cases, individual student identities shall
remain confidential.
M.The
department of education shall develop and make publicly available to the people
of this state, by posting on the website of the data governance commission with
a link to the website of the department of education, a detailed data security
plan that includes all of the following:
1.Guidelines
for authorizing access to the data system and to individual student level data,
including guidelines for authentication of authorized access.
2.Privacy
compliance standards.
3.Privacy
and security audits.
4.Breach
planning, notification and procedures.
5.Data
retention and disposition policies.
6.Data
security policies, including electronic, physical and administrative
safeguards, such as data encryption and training of employees.
N.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department of education may not share or transfer any
personally identifiable information about any student or teacher with any
entity in this state unless that entity is an educational agency or institution
that will not:
1.Use the
data to develop commercial products or services.
2.Share or
transfer any personally identifiable information about any student or teacher
to any economic or workforce development research or initiative.
3.Share any
personally identifiable information compiled regarding students or teachers
with any entity outside this state, except as provided in this section.
O.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department of education shall ensure that all contracts that
govern databases, assessments or instructional supports that include student or
redacted data and that are outsourced to private vendors include written
provisions that specifically safeguard student privacy and data security,
including provisions that prohibit private vendors from selling student level
data or from using student level data in furtherance of advertising, with
penalties for noncompliance. The department may not share any personally
identifiable information about any student or teacher with any entity that will
use that information for development of commercial products or services or that
will transfer that data to any other entity for use in the development of
commercial products or services. A contractor working with student records
shall agree in writing that it will not disclose such information, including
for online behavioral advertising, for the sale of data for any commercial
purpose or for any other commercial or noncommercial activity or product.
Contractors may not share any student's personally identifiable information
with any federal agency or federal personnel without prior written consent from
the student's parent or guardian.
P.Notwithstanding
any other law, the arizona department of education and the data governance
commission shall notify the governor, the president of the senate, the speaker
of the house of representatives, the superintendent of public instruction, the
state board of education, parents or guardians and the public, by posting on
the website of the data governance commission with a link to the website of the
department of education, of both of the following:
1.New
student level data elements proposed for inclusion in the state student data
system.
2.Changes
to existing data collection required for any reason, including changes to the
federal reporting requirements made by the United States department of
education.
Q.Notwithstanding
any other law, the department of education may not collect, and school districts
and charter schools may not report, any of the following individual student
level data:
1.Juvenile
court delinquency records.
2.Criminal
records.
3.Student
biometric information.
4.Information
about political affiliation and voting history of students, siblings of
students or parents or guardians of students.
5.Information
about the religion of students, siblings of students or parents or guardians of
students.
6.Information
about firearm and ammunition ownership or other hobbies of students, siblings
of students or parents or guardians of students.
7.Information
about drug or alcohol use of students, siblings of students or parents or
guardians of students.
8.The
Quality of home students' interpersonal relationships.
9.mental
health screenings and mental health survey data of students, siblings of
students or parents or guardians of students.
R.Notwithstanding
any other law, employees of the department of education and of any other state
agency who violate this section are subject to termination from existing
employment and prohibition from further employment with this state. The
attorney general or the county attorney for the county in which an alleged
violation of this section occurred may serve on the employee or former employee
an order requiring compliance with this section and may assess a civil penalty
of not more than five thousand dollars for each violation. The employee or
former employee who is determined to be out of compliance with this section is
responsible for the payment of all civil penalties, and public monies or
insurance payments may not be used to pay these civil penalties. Civil
penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be transmitted to the state
treasurer for deposit in the state general fund.
S.Notwithstanding
any other law, for each violation of this section or any rule adopted pursuant
to this section by an organization or entity other than a state agency, a
school district governing board or an educational entity, a civil penalty shall
be imposed in the amount of ten thousand dollars for each student record. if a
person or entity that is a contractor with this state or with an educational
entity in this state violates this section, the contract shall be terminated
and that person or entity is prohibited from entering into any contract in the
future with this state or an educational entity in this state.The
attorney general may enforce compliance with this section by conducting
investigations and initiating civil actions to seek civil penalties for
violations of this section and to seek appropriate injunctive relief, including
a prohibition on obtaining personally identifiable information for an
appropriate time period. The attorney general may subpoena witnesses, compel
attendance of witnesses, examine witnesses under oath and require the
production, examination or audit of any books, records, documents, papers or
electronic records relevant to the inquiry. subpoenas issued pursuant to this
subsection may be enforced pursuant to the Arizona rules of civil
procedure.
T.The
requirements of this section concerning curricula, standards, instructional
methods, assessments, professional development, data collection, proposals,
agreements, grants or documents include both paper and electronic media,
whether stored locally, on the Internet or on servers connected to the internet
or streamed or projected by, through or from any electronic device or
software.
U.The State
Board of Education, the Department of Education, school districts and charter
schools may not purchase, lease, rent or use hardware or software for
instruction, including tutorials, simulations, gaming, interactive textbooks,
collaborative software or operating systems, that collects any user data
without obtaining prior written consent from parents or guardians and teachers,
or that denies access to parents, guardians or citizens of this state.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Legislative findings and declarations
The legislature finds and declares that:
1.The rights of parents and guardians of students
in this state are explicitly stated in:
(a)Section 1-601, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
"The liberty of parents to direct the upbringing, education, health care
and mental health of their children is a fundamental right."
(b)Section 1-602, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
"All parental rights are reserved to a parent of a minor child without
obstruction or interference from this state, any political subdivision of this
state, any other governmental entity or any other institution."
2.According to the fourth amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, individuals have the right "to be
secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures." The role of government is to ensure these rights.
3.A de facto national longitudinal data system via
connections to each state's longitudinal data system, controlled by national
private-public partnerships that usurp the privacy of Arizona parents and guardians
and local school board control, builds the infrastructure for undermining the
Constitution of the United States, individual rights and states' rights and
destroys locally determined curricular values and locally determined data
usage. The constitutionally protected privacy and property of Arizona citizens
is what these combined statewide longitudinal data systems seek to monitor,
control and change.

