







REFERENCE TITLE: medical licensure compact







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2502









Introduced by
Representative
  Carter





AN ACT

Amending title
32, chapter 32, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 3; relating to
medical licensure.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 32, chapter 32, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 3, to read:
ARTICLE 3.MEDICAL LICENSURE COMPACT
START_STATUTE32-3241.Medical licensure compact
the medical licensure
compact is enacted into law as follows:
Section 1. PURPOSE
In order to
strengthen access to health care, and in recognition of the advances in the
delivery of health care, the member states of the Interstate Medical Licensure
Compact have allied in common purpose to develop a comprehensive process that
complements the existing licensing and regulatory authority of state medical
boards and provides a streamlined process that allows physicians to become
licensed in multiple states, thereby enhancing the portability of a medical
license and ensuring the safety of patients. This compact creates another
pathway for licensure and does not otherwise change a state's existing medical
practice act. This compact also adopts the prevailing standard for licensure
and affirms that the practice of medicine occurs where the patient is located
at the time of the physicianpatient encounter, and therefore, requires
the physician to be under the jurisdiction of the state medical board where the
patient is located. State medical boards that participate in the compact retain
the jurisdiction to impose an adverse action against a license to practice
medicine in that state issued to a physician through the procedures in the
compact.
Section 2. Definitions
As used in this
compact:
1."Bylaws"
means those bylaws established by the interstate commission pursuant to section
11 of this compact for its governance, or for directing and controlling its
actions and conduct.
2."Commissioner"
means the voting representative appointed by each member board pursuant to
Section 11 of this compact.
3."Convicted"
means a finding by a court that an individual is guilty of a criminal offense
through adjudication or entry of a plea of guilt or no contest to the charge by
the offender. Evidence of an entry of a conviction of a criminal offense by the
court shall be considered final for purposes of disciplinary action by a member
board.
4."Expedited
license" means a full and unrestricted medical license granted by a member
state to an eligible physician through the process set forth in this compact.
5."Interstate
commission" means the interstate medical licensure compact commission
created pursuant to Section 11 of this compact.
6."License"
means authorization by a state for a physician to engage in the practice of
medicine, which would be unlawful without the authorization.
7."Medical
practice act" means laws and regulations governing the practice of
allopathic and osteopathic medicine within a member state.
8."Member
board" means a state agency in a member state that acts in the sovereign
interests of the state by protecting the public through licensure, regulation
and education of physicians as directed by the state government.
9."Member
state" means a state that has enacted this compact.
10."Offense"
means a felony, gross misdemeanor or crime of moral turpitude.
11."Physician"
means any person who:
(a)Is a graduate of a medical
school accredited by the liaison committee on medical education, the commission
on osteopathic college accreditation or a medical school listed in the
international medical education directory or its equivalent.
(b)Passed each component of the
United States medical licensing examination (USMLE) or the comprehensive
osteopathic medical licensing examination (COMLEX-USA) within three attempts,
or any of its predecessor examinations accepted by a state medical board as an
equivalent examination for licensure purposes.
(c)Successfully completed graduate
medical education approved by the accreditation council for graduate medical
education or the American osteopathic association.
(d)Holds specialty certification or
a timeunlimited specialty certificate recognized by the American board
of medical specialties or the American osteopathic association's bureau of
osteopathic specialists.
(e)Possesses a full and
unrestricted license to engage in the practice of medicine issued by a member
board.
(f)Has never been convicted,
received adjudication, deferred adjudication or community supervision or
deferred disposition for any offense by a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(g)Has never had a license
authorizing the practice of medicine subjected to discipline by a licensing
agency in any state, federal or foreign jurisdiction, excluding any action
related to nonpayment of fees related to a license.
(h)Has never had a controlled
substance license or permit suspended or revoked by a state or the United
States drug enforcement administration.
(i)Is not under active
investigation by a licensing agency or law enforcement authority in any state,
federal or foreign jurisdiction.
12."Practice
of medicine" means the clinical prevention, diagnosis or treatment of
human disease, injury or condition requiring a physician to obtain and maintain
a license in compliance with the medical practice act of a member state.
13."Rule"
means a written statement by the interstate commission promulgated pursuant to
Section 12 of this compact that is of general applicability, that implements,
interprets or prescribes a policy or provision of this compact or an
organizational, procedural or practice requirement of the interstate
commission, and that has the force and effect of statutory law in a member
state, and includes the amendment, repeal or suspension of an existing rule.
14."State"
means any state, commonwealth, district or territory of the United States.
15."State
of principal license" means a member state where a physician holds a
license to practice medicine and that has been designated as such by the
physician for purposes of registration and participation in the compact.
SECTION 3. ELIGIBILITY
A.A
physician must meet the eligibility requirements as prescribed in Section 2,
paragraph 11 of this compact to receive an expedited license under the terms
and provisions of this compact.
B.A
physician who does not meet the requirements of Section 2, paragraph 11 of this
compact may obtain a license to practice medicine in a member state if the
individual complies with all laws and requirements, other than the compact,
relating to the issuance of a license to practice medicine in that state.
SECTION 4. DESIGNATION OF STATE OF
PRINCIPAL LICENSE
A.A
physician shall designate a member state as the state of principal license for
purposes of registration for expedited licensure through the compact if the
physician possesses a full and unrestricted license to practice medicine in
that state and the state is one of the following:
1.The
state of primary residence for the physician.
2.The
state where at least twentyfive percent of the physician's practice of
medicine occurs.
3.The
location of the physician's employer.
4.If
no state qualifies under paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this subsection, the state
designated as state of residence for purpose of federal income tax.
B.A
physician may redesignate a member state as state of principal license at any
time, as long as the state meets the requirements in subsection A of this
section.
C.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules to facilitate
redesignation of another member state as the state of principal license.
SECTION 5. APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
OF EXPEDITED LICENSURE
A.A
physician seeking licensure through the compact shall file an application for
an expedited license with the member board of the state selected by the
physician as the state of principal license.
B.On
receipt of an application for an expedited license, the member board within the
state selected as the state of principal license shall evaluate whether the
physician is eligible for expedited licensure and issue a letter of
qualification verifying or denying the physician's eligibility to the
interstate commission as follows:
1.Static
qualifications, which include verification of medical education, graduate
medical education, results of any medical or licensing examination and other
qualifications as determined by the interstate commission through rule, shall
not be subject to additional primary source verification where already primary
source verified by the state of principal license.
2.The
member board within the state selected as the state of principal license in the
course of verifying eligibility shall perform a criminal background check of an
applicant, including the use of the results of fingerprint or other biometric
data checks compliant with the requirements of the federal bureau of
investigation, with the exception of federal employees who have suitability
determination in accordance with 5 Code of Federal Regulations section 731.202.
3.Appeal
on the determination of eligibility shall be made to the member state where the
application was filed and shall be subject to the law of that state.
C.On
verification in subsection B of this section, physicians who are eligible for
an expedited license shall complete the registration process established by the
interstate commission to receive a license in a member state selected pursuant
to subsection A of this section, including the payment of any applicable fees.
D.After
receiving verification of eligibility under subsection B of this section and
payment of any fees under subsection C of this section, a member board shall
issue an expedited license to the physician. This license shall authorize the
physician to practice medicine in the issuing state consistent with the medical
practice act and all applicable laws and regulations of the issuing member
board and member state.
E.An
expedited license shall be valid for a period consistent with the licensure
period in the member state and in the same manner as required for other
physicians holding a full and unrestricted license within the member state.
F.An
expedited license obtained though the compact shall be terminated if a
physician fails to maintain a license in the state of principal license for a
nondisciplinary reason, without redesignation of a new state of principal
license.
G.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules regarding the application
process, including payment of any applicable fees, and the issuance of an
expedited license.
SECTION 6. FEES FOR EXPEDITED
LICENSURE
A.A
member state issuing an expedited license authorizing the practice of medicine
in that state may impose a fee for a license issued or renewed through the
compact.
B.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules regarding fees for
expedited licenses.
SECTION 7. RENEWAL AND CONTINUED
PARTICIPATION
A.A physician seeking to renew an
expedited license granted in a member state shall complete a renewal process
with the interstate commission if the physician:
1.Maintains
a full and unrestricted license in a state of principal license.
2.Has
not been convicted, received adjudication, deferred adjudication or community
supervision or deferred disposition for any offense by a court of appropriate
jurisdiction.
3.Has
not had a license authorizing the practice of medicine subject to discipline by
a licensing agency in any state, federal or foreign jurisdiction, excluding any
action related to nonpayment of fees related to a license.
4.Has
not had a controlled substance license or permit suspended or revoked by a
state or the United States drug enforcement administration.
B.Physicians
shall comply with all continuing professional development or continuing medical
education requirements for renewal of a license issued by a member state.
C.The
interstate commission shall collect any renewal fees charged for the renewal of
a license and distribute the fees to the applicable member board.
D.On
receipt of any renewal fees collected pursuant to subsection C of this section,
a member board shall renew the physician's license.
E.Physician
information collected by the interstate commission during the renewal process
will be distributed to all member boards.
F.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules to address renewal of
licenses obtained through the compact.
SECTION 8. COORDINATED INFORMATION
SYSTEM
A.The
interstate commission shall establish a database of all physicians who are
licensed or who have applied for licensure under section 5 of this compact.
B.Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, member boards shall report to the interstate
commission any public action or complaints against a licensed physician who has
applied or received an expedited license through the compact.
C.Member
boards shall report disciplinary or investigatory information determined as
necessary and proper by rule of the interstate commission.
D.Member
boards may report any nonpublic complaint or disciplinary or investigatory
information not required by subsection C of this section to the interstate
commission.
E.Member
boards shall share complaint or disciplinary information about a physician on
request of another member board.
F.All
information provided to the interstate commission or distributed by member
boards shall be confidential, filed under seal and used only for investigatory
or disciplinary matters.
G.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules for mandated or
discretionary sharing of information by member boards.
SECTION 9. JOINT INVESTIGATIONS
A.Licensure
and disciplinary records of physicians are deemed investigative.
B.In
addition to the authority granted to a member board by its respective medical
practice act or other applicable state law, a member board may participate with
other member boards in joint investigations of physicians licensed by the
member boards.
C.A
subpoena issued by a member state shall be enforceable in other member states.
D.Member
boards may share any investigative, litigation or compliance materials in
furtherance of any joint or individual investigation initiated under the
compact.
E.Any
member state may investigate actual or alleged violations of the statutes
authorizing the practice of medicine in any other member state in which a
physician holds a license to practice medicine.
SECTION 10. DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
A.Any
disciplinary action taken by any member board against a physician licensed
through this compact shall be deemed unprofessional conduct that may be subject
to discipline by other member boards, in addition to any violation of the
medical practice act or regulations in that state.
B.If
a license granted to a physician by the member board in the state of principal
license is revoked, surrendered or relinquished in lieu of discipline, or
suspended, then all licenses issued to the physician by member boards shall
automatically be placed, without further action necessary by any member board,
on the same status. If the member board in the state of principal license
subsequently reinstates the physician's license, a license issued to the
physician by any other member board shall remain encumbered until that
respective member board takes action to reinstate the license in a manner
consistent with the medical practice act of that state.
C.If
disciplinary action is taken against a physician by a member board not in the
state of principal license, any other member board may deem the action
conclusive as to matter of law and fact decided, and either:
1.Impose
the same or lesser sanctions against the physician so long as such sanctions
are consistent with the medical practice act of that state.
2.Pursue
separate disciplinary action against the physician under its respective medical
practice act, regardless of the action taken in other member states.
D.If
a license granted to a physician by a member board is revoked, surrendered or relinquished
in lieu of discipline, or suspended, any license issued to the physician by any
other member board shall be suspended, automatically and immediately without
further action necessary by the other member board, for ninety days on entry of
the order by the disciplining board, to permit the member board to investigate
the basis for the action under the medical practice act of that state. A member
board may terminate the automatic suspension of the license it issued before
the completion of the ninetyday suspension period in a manner consistent
with the medical practice act of that state.
SECTION 11. INTERSTATE MEDICAL
LICENSURE COMPACT COMMISSION
A.The
member states hereby create the Interstate Medical Licensure Compact
Commission.
B.The
purpose of the interstate commission is the administration of the interstate
medical licensure compact, which is a discretionary state function.
C.The
interstate commission shall be a body corporate and joint agency of the member
states and shall have all the responsibilities, powers and duties set forth in
this compact, and such additional powers as may be conferred on it by a
subsequent concurrent action of the respective legislatures of the member
states in accordance with the terms of the compact.
D.The
interstate commission shall consist of two voting representatives appointed by
each member state who shall serve as commissioners. In states where allopathic
and osteopathic physicians are regulated by separate member boards, or if the
licensing and disciplinary authority is split between multiple member boards
within a member state, the member state shall appoint one representative from
each member board. A commissioner shall be one of the following:
1.An
allopathic or osteopathic physician appointed to a member board.
2.An
executive director, executive secretary or similar executive of a member board.
3.A
member of the public appointed to a member board.
E.The
interstate commission shall meet at least once each calendar year. A portion of
this meeting shall be a business meeting to address such matters as may
properly come before the commission, including the election of officers. The
chairperson may call additional meetings and shall call a meeting on the
request of a majority of the member states.
F.The
bylaws may provide for meetings of the interstate commission to be conducted by
telecommunication or electronic communication.
G.Each
commissioner participating at a meeting of the interstate commission is
entitled to one vote. A majority of commissioners shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business, unless a larger quorum is required by the bylaws
of the interstate commission. A commissioner shall not delegate a vote to
another commissioner. In the absence of its commissioner, a member state may
delegate voting authority for a specified meeting to another person from that
state who meets the requirements of subsection D of this section.
H.The
interstate commission shall provide public notice of all meetings, and all
meetings shall be open to the public. The interstate commission may close a
meeting, in full or in part, if it determines by a two-thirds vote of the
commissioners present that an open meeting would be likely to do any of the
following:
1.Relate
solely to the internal personnel practices and procedures of the interstate
commission.
2.Discuss
matters specifically exempted from disclosure by federal statute.
3.Discuss
trade secrets or commercial or financial information that is privileged or
confidential.
4.Involve
accusing a person of a crime or formally censuring a person.
5.Discuss
information of a personal nature for which disclosure would constitute a
clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
6.Discuss
investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes.
7.Specifically
relate to the participation in a civil action or other legal proceeding.
I.The
interstate commission shall keep minutes that shall fully describe all matters
discussed in a meeting and shall provide a full and accurate summary of actions
taken, including a record of any roll call votes.
J.The
interstate commission shall make its information and official records, to the
extent not otherwise designated in this compact or by the commission's rules,
available to the public for inspection.
K.The
interstate commission shall establish an executive committee, which shall
include officers, members and others as determined by the bylaws. The executive
committee shall have the power to act on behalf of the interstate commission,
with the exception of rulemaking, during periods when the interstate commission
is not in session. When acting on behalf of the Interstate commission, the
executive committee shall oversee the administration of this compact including
enforcement and compliance with the provisions of this compact, its bylaws and
rules, and other such duties as necessary.
L.The
interstate commission may establish other committees for governance and
administration of this compact.
SECTION 12. POWERS AND DUTIES OF
THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
The
Interstate Commission shall have the duty and power to:
1.Oversee
and maintain the administration of the compact.
2.Promulgate
rules that are binding to the extent and in the manner provided for in this
compact.
3.Issue,
on the request of a member state or member board, advisory opinions concerning
the meaning or interpretation of this compact, its bylaws, rules and actions.
4.Enforce
compliance with compact provisions, the rules promulgated by the interstate commission
and the bylaws, using all necessary and proper means, including the use of
judicial process.
5.Establish
and appoint committees, including an executive committee as required by section
11 of this compact, which shall have the power to act on behalf of the
interstate commission in carrying out its powers and duties.
6.Pay,
or provide for the payment of, the expenses related to the establishment,
organization and ongoing activities of the interstate commission.
7.Establish
and maintain one or more offices.
8.Borrow,
accept, hire or contract for services of personnel.
9.Purchase
and maintain insurance and bonds.
10.Employ
an executive director who shall have such powers to employ, select or appoint
employees, agents or consultants and to determine their qualifications, define
their duties and fix their compensation.
11.Establish
personnel policies and programs relating to conflicts of interest, rates of
compensation and qualifications of personnel.
12.Accept
donations and grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials and services and
receive, utilize and dispose of these in a manner consistent with the conflict
of interest policies established by the interstate commission.
13.Lease,
purchase, accept contributions or donations of, or otherwise own, hold, improve
or use, any property, real, personal, or mixed.
14.Sell,
convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, abandon or otherwise dispose of any
property, real, personal or mixed.
15.Establish
a budget and make expenditures.
16.Adopt
a seal and bylaws governing the management and operation of the interstate
commission.
17.Report
annually to the legislatures and governors of the member states concerning the
activities of the interstate commission during the preceding year. Such reports
shall also include reports of financial audits and any recommendations that may
have been adopted by the interstate commission.
18.Coordinate
education, training and public awareness regarding the compact and its
implementation and operation.
19.Maintain
records in accordance with the bylaws.
20.Seek
and obtain trademarks, copyrights and patents.
21.Perform
such functions as may be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of
this compact.
SECTION 13. FINANCE POWERS
A.The
interstate commission may levy on and collect an annual assessment from each
member state to cover the cost of the operations and activities of the
interstate commission and its staff. The total assessment must be sufficient to
cover the annual budget approved each year for which revenue is not provided by
other sources. The aggregate annual assessment amount shall be allocated on a
formula to be determined by the interstate commission, which shall promulgate a
rule binding on all member states.
B.The
interstate commission shall not incur obligations of any kind before securing
the funds adequate to meet the same.
C.The
interstate commission shall not pledge the credit of any of the member states,
except by, and with the authority of, the member state.
D.The
interstate commission shall be subject to a yearly financial audit conducted by
a certified or licensed public accountant, and the report of the audit shall be
included in the annual report of the interstate commission.
SECTION 14. ORGANIZATION AND
OPERATION OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
A.The
interstate commission, by a majority of commissioners present and voting, shall
adopt bylaws to govern its conduct as may be necessary or appropriate to carry
out the purposes of this compact within twelve months after the first
interstate commission meeting.
B.The
interstate commission shall elect or appoint annually from among its
commissioners a chairperson, a vice chairperson and a treasurer, each of whom
shall have such authority and duties as may be specified in the bylaws. The
chairperson or, in the chairperson's absence or disability, the vice
chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the interstate commission.
C.Officers
selected pursuant to subsection B of this section shall serve without remuneration
from the interstate commission.
D.The
officers and employees of the interstate commission shall be immune from suit
and liability, either personally or in their official capacity, for a claim for
damage to or loss of property or personal injury or other civil liability
caused or arising out of, or relating to, an actual or alleged act, error or
omission that occurred, or that such person had a reasonable basis for
believing occurred, within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties
or responsibilities, except that such a person shall not be protected from suit
or liability for damage, loss, injury or liability caused by the person's
intentional or wilful and wanton misconduct as follows:
1.The
liability of the executive director and an employee of the interstate
commission or a representative of the interstate commission, acting within the
scope of that person's employment or duties for acts, errors or omissions
occurring within that person's state, may not exceed the limits of liability
set forth under the constitution and laws of that state for state officials,
employees and agents. The interstate commission is considered to be an
instrumentality of the states for the purposes of any such action. this
subsection does not protect such a person from suit or liability for damage,
loss, injury or liability caused by the person's intentional or wilful and
wanton misconduct.
2.The
interstate commission shall defend the executive director and the commission's
employees and, subject to the approval of the attorney general or other
appropriate legal counsel of the member state represented by an interstate
commission representative, shall defend such an interstate commission
representative in any civil action seeking to impose liability arising out of
an actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the scope of
interstate commission employment, duties or responsibilities or that the
defendant had a reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope of
interstate commission employment, duties or responsibilities, if the actual or
alleged act, error or omission did not result from the person's intentional or
wilful and wanton misconduct.
3.To
the extent not covered by the state involved, the member state or the interstate
commission, a representative or employee of the interstate commission shall be
held harmless in the amount of a settlement or judgment, including attorney
fees and costs, obtained against that person arising out of an actual or
alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the scope of interstate
commission employment, duties or responsibilities or that the person had a
reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope of interstate
commission employment, duties or responsibilities, if the actual or alleged
act, error or omission did not result from the person's intentional or wilful
and wanton misconduct.
SECTION 15. RULEMAKING FUNCTIONS OF
THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
A.The
interstate commission shall promulgate reasonable rules in order to effectively
and efficiently achieve the purposes of this compact. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the interstate commission exercises its rulemaking authority in a
manner that is beyond the scope of the purposes of this compact, or the powers
granted hereunder, such an action by the interstate commission shall be invalid
and have no force or effect.
B.Rules
deemed appropriate for the operations of the interstate commission shall be
made pursuant to a rulemaking process that substantially conforms to the Model
State Administrative Procedure Act of 2010, and subsequent amendments thereto.
C.Not
later than thirty days after a rule is promulgated, any person may file a
petition for judicial review of the rule in the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia or the federal district where the interstate
commission has its principal offices, provided that the filing of such a
petition shall not stay or otherwise prevent the rule from becoming effective
unless the court finds that the petitioner has a substantial likelihood of
success. The court shall give deference to the actions of the interstate
commission consistent with applicable law and shall not find the rule to be
unlawful if the rule represents a reasonable exercise of the authority granted
to the interstate commission.
SECTION 16. OVERSIGHT OF INTERSTATE
COMPACT
A.The
executive, legislative and judicial branches of state government in each member
state shall enforce the compact and shall take all actions necessary and
appropriate to effectuate the compact's purposes and intent. The provisions of
the compact and the rules promulgated under the compact shall have standing as
statutory law but shall not override existing state authority to regulate the
practice of medicine.
B.All
courts shall take judicial notice of the compact and the rules in any judicial
or administrative proceeding in a member state pertaining to the subject matter
of the compact that may affect the powers, responsibilities or actions of the
interstate commission.
C.The
interstate commission shall be entitled to receive all service of process in
any such proceeding and shall have standing to intervene in the proceeding for
all purposes. Failure to provide service of process to the interstate
commission shall render a judgment or order void as to the interstate
commission, the compact or promulgated rules.
SECTION 17. ENFORCEMENT OF
INTERSTATE COMPACT
A.The
interstate commission, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, shall
enforce the provisions and rules of this compact.
B.The
interstate commission, by majority vote of the commissioners, may initiate
legal action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
or, at the discretion of the interstate commission, in the federal district
where the interstate commission has its principal offices to enforce compliance
with the provisions of this compact and its promulgated rules and bylaws
against a member state in default. The relief sought may include both
injunctive relief and damages. if judicial enforcement is necessary, the
prevailing party shall be awarded all costs of such litigation, including
reasonable attorney fees.
C.The
remedies herein shall not be the exclusive remedies of the interstate
commission. The interstate commission may avail itself of any other remedies
available under state law or the regulation of a profession.
SECTION 18. DEFAULT PROCEDURES
A.The
grounds for default include failure of a member state to perform such
obligations or responsibilities imposed on it by this compact or the rules and
bylaws of the interstate commission promulgated under this compact.
B.If
the interstate commission determines that a member state has defaulted in the
performance of its obligations or responsibilities under this compact or the
bylaws or promulgated rules, the interstate commission shall:
1.Provide
written notice to the defaulting state and other member states of the nature of
the default, the means of curing the default and any action taken by the
interstate commission. The interstate commission shall specify the conditions
by which the defaulting state must cure its default.
2.Provide
remedial training and specific technical assistance regarding the default.
C.If
the defaulting state fails to cure the default, the defaulting state shall be
terminated from this compact on an affirmative vote of a majority of the
commissioners, and all rights, privileges, and benefits conferred by this
compact shall terminate on the effective date of termination. A cure of the
default does not relieve the offending state of obligations or liabilities
incurred during the period of the default.
D.Termination
of membership in this compact shall be imposed only after all other means of
securing compliance have been exhausted. Notice of intent to terminate shall be
given by the interstate commission to the governor, the majority and minority
leaders of the defaulting state's legislature and each of the member states.
E.The
interstate commission shall establish rules and procedures to address licenses
and physicians that are materially impacted by the termination of a member
state or the withdrawal of a member state.
F.The
member state that has been terminated is responsible for all dues, obligations
and liabilities incurred through the effective date of termination, including
obligations, the performance of which extends beyond the effective date of
termination.
G.The
interstate commission shall not bear any costs relating to any state that has
been found to be in default or that has been terminated from this compact,
unless otherwise mutually agreed on in writing between the interstate
commission and the defaulting state.
H.The
defaulting state may appeal the action of the interstate commission by
petitioning the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or
the federal district where the interstate commission has its principal offices.
The prevailing party shall be awarded all costs of such litigation, including
reasonable attorney fees.
section 19. dispute resolution
a.the
interstate commission shall attempt, on the request of a member state, to
resolve disputes that are subject to this compact and that may arise among
member states or member boards.
b.the
interstate commission shall promulgate rules providing for both mediation and
binding dispute resolution as appropriate.
SECTION 20. MEMBER STATES,
EFFECTIVE DATE AND AMENDMENT
A.Any
state is eligible to become a member state of this compact.
B.The
compact shall become effective and binding on legislative enactment of this
compact into law by no less than seven states. Thereafter, it shall become
effective and binding on a state on enactment of this compact into law by that
state.
C.The
governors of nonmember states, or their designees, shall be invited to
participate in the activities of the interstate commission on a nonvoting basis
before adoption of this compact by all states.
D.The
interstate commission may propose amendments to this compact for enactment by
the member states. an amendment shall not become effective and binding on the
interstate commission and the member states unless and until it is enacted into
law by unanimous consent of the member states.
SECTION 21. WITHDRAWAL
A.once
effective, this compact shall continue in force and remain binding on each and
every member state, except that a member state may withdraw from this compact
by specifically repealing the statute that enacted this compact into law.
B.Withdrawal
from this compact shall be by the enactment of a statute repealing the same,
but shall not take effect until one year after the effective date of such
statute and until written notice of the withdrawal has been given by the
withdrawing state to the governor of each other member state.
C.The
withdrawing state shall immediately notify the chairperson of the interstate
commission in writing on the introduction of legislation repealing this compact
in the withdrawing state.
D.The
interstate commission shall notify the other member states of the withdrawing
state's intent to withdraw within sixty days of its receipt of notice provided
under subsection C of this section.
E.The
withdrawing state is responsible for all dues, obligations and liabilities
incurred through the effective date of withdrawal, including obligations, the
performance of which extend beyond the effective date of withdrawal.
F.Reinstatement
following withdrawal of a member state shall occur on the withdrawing state
reenacting this compact or on such later date as determined by the interstate
commission.
G.The
interstate commission is authorized to develop rules to address the impact of
the withdrawal of a member state on licenses granted in other member states to
physicians who designated the withdrawing member state as the state of principal
license.
SECTION 22. DISSOLUTION
A.This
compact shall dissolve effective on the date of the withdrawal or default of
the member state that reduces the membership in the compact to one member
state.
B.On
the dissolution of this compact, the compact becomes void and shall be of no
further force or effect, and the business and affairs of the interstate
commission shall be concluded and surplus funds shall be distributed in
accordance with the bylaws.
SECTION 23. SEVERABILITY AND
CONSTRUCTION
A.The
provisions of this compact shall be severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence or provision is deemed unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this
compact shall be enforceable.
B.The
provisions of this compact shall be liberally construed to effectuate its purposes.
C.this
compact shall not be construed to prohibit the applicability of other
interstate compacts to which the states are members.
SECTION 24. BINDING EFFECT OF
COMPACT AND OTHER LAWS
A.Nothing
in this compact prevents the enforcement of any other law of a member state
that is not inconsistent with this compact.
B.All
laws in a member state in conflict with this compact are superseded to the
extent of the conflict.
C.All
lawful actions of the interstate commission, including all rules and bylaws
promulgated by the commission, are binding on the member states.
D.All
agreements between the interstate commission and the member states are binding
in accordance with their terms.
E.if
any provision of this compact exceeds the constitutional limits imposed on the
legislature of any member state, such provision shall be ineffective to the
extent of the conflict with the constitutional provision in question in that
member state.END_STATUTE

