







REFERENCE TITLE: AHCCCS; provider participation;
  exclusions







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2599









Introduced by
Representative
  Olson





AN ACT

Amending title
36, chapter 29, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
36-2930.02; relating to the Arizona health care cost containment system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, chapter 29, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-2930.02, to read:
START_STATUTE36-2930.02.Provider participation; grounds for exclusion
A.The administration shall exclude a
provider from participation in the system and shall terminate the provider's
agreement with the administration pursuant to federal law on the occurrence of
any of the following:
1.The
provider's conviction for a system-related crime.
2.The
provider's conviction related to patient abuse or neglect.
3.The
provider's felony conviction for health care fraud.
4.The
provider's felony conviction relating to controlled substances.
5.The
provider's termination for cause by the administration under the children's
health insurance program or under title XVIII of the social security act.
B.The
administration may exclude, in its sole discretion, a provider from
participation in the system pursuant to federal law and may terminate the
provider's agreement with the administration if the provider has done any of
the following:
1.Submitted
a claim for payment to the administration for excessive charges over the
allowable reimbursements for such charges.
2.Submitted
a claim for payment to the administration for medically unnecessary services or
services that failed to meet professionally recognized standards of health
care.
3.Submitted
a claim for payment to the administration that the provider knew or should have
known was fraudulent.
4.Accepted
a payment kickback or engaged in another activity that is prohibited under
federal law.
5.Submitted
a claim for a provider that is controlled by a sanctioned provider.
6.Failed
to disclose required information, supply requested information or supply
payment information to the administration.
7.Made
a false statement or misrepresentation of material fact.
8.Failed
to ensure that services or items are provided economically and only when and to
the extent that is medically necessary.
9.Failed
to ensure that a service or item was of a quality that meets professionally
recognized standards of health care and was supported by evidence of medical
necessity and quality.
10.been
found liable for the neglect of a patient that results in death or injury.
11.Engaged
in the unlawful disposal of medical waste in violation of federal, state or
local law.
12.Submitted
a claim for a procedure performed in association with an abortion in violation
of federal or state law.
13.Failed
to segregate taxpayer dollars from abortions, including the use of taxpayer
dollars for any overhead expenses attributable to abortions.
14.Failed
to comply with federal or state law requiring mandatory reporting of sexual
abuse, sexual assault, child or sex trafficking or statutory rape.
C.the
delineation of grounds for exclusion pursuant to subsections A and B of this
section does not exclude any other basis for exclusion pursuant to state law or
policy as determined by the administration.
D.The
administration shall suspend payments under this article to any provider that
is the subject of a credible allegation of fraud and against whom an
investigation is pending under the system unless the administration finds that
good cause exists not to suspend the payments. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Short title
This act shall be known as the "Taxpayer Protection and
Medicaid Integrity Act".
Sec.3.Severability
If a provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of the act that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

