







REFERENCE TITLE: experienced teacher retention pilot
  program







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2510









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Alston, Bolding, Coleman, Otondo





AN ACT

prescribing the
experienced teacher retention pilot program; APPROPRIATING monies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Experienced teacher retention pilot program; reports;
rules; delayed repeal
A.The department of education shall conduct a
five-year experienced teacher retention pilot program. Persons who are
selected by the department of education to participate in the pilot program are
eligible to receive a discount of seventyfive percent on tuition at
universities under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents for the
duration of the pilot program.The department of education shall
establish application procedures for persons who wish to apply to participate
in the pilot program.The department of education, in collaboration
with the Arizona board of regents, shall limit the number of persons who are
selected to participate in the pilot program to ensure that the cost of the
pilot program does not exceed the amount appropriated for the pilot program.
The department shall select applicants to participate in the pilot program on a
first-come, first-served basis.
B.The following persons are eligible to participate
in the pilot program:
1.A certificated teacher who has been employed at
one or more school districts or charter schools in this state for a total of at
least ten years.
2.The spouse of a person who meets the criteria
specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.The dependent of a person who meets the criteria
specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection.
4.A certificated teacher who has been employed at
one or more school districts or charter schools for at least three years but
fewer than ten years.A certificated teacher who meets the criteria
specified in this paragraph may use the discount specified in this section only
to obtain one or more graduate degrees in education and shall sign a contract
with the department of education to continue to teach in a public school in
this state for at least two years after obtaining a graduate degree.
C.If a program participant receives discounted
tuition pursuant to subsection B of this section and fails to fulfill the
service requirement under the contract, or if the program participant's teacher
certificate is revoked by the state board of education pursuant to title 15,
Arizona Revised Statutes, the program participant shall repay the amount of the
discounted tuition to the department of education.
D.Each university that enrolls a person who is
selected to participate in the pilot program shall submit an invoice to the
department of education to reimburse the university for the amount of the
discounted tuition for that participant.The department, after
verifying the amount of the invoice and the person's participation in the pilot
program, shall distribute to that university an amount to reimburse the
university for the amount of the discounted tuition for that participant from
monies appropriated for this purpose.
E.The department of
education, in collaboration with the Arizona board of regents, shall submit an
initial report on or before September 15, 2019 and a final report on or before
September 15, 2022 that summarizes the department's findings and conclusions
about the number of people who participated in the pilot program, the impact of
the pilot program on the teacher shortage in this state and the effectiveness
of the pilot program to the governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives and the president of the senate. The department shall provide
a copy of the reports to the secretary of state.
F.The department of
education may adopt policies and procedures to carry out the purposes of the
pilot program.
G.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2022.
Sec.2.Appropriations; department of education; experienced
teacher retention pilot program; exemption
A.The sum of $15,000,000 is appropriated from the
state general fund in each of fiscal years 2016-2017, 20172018, 20182019,
20192020 and 20202021 to the department of education for the
costs of the experienced teacher retention pilot program. The department may
retain up to two percent of the monies appropriated each year to administer the
pilot program.
B.The appropriations made in subsection A of this
section are exempt from the provisions of section 35190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations, except that all monies
remaining unencumbered or unexpended on July 1, 2022 revert to the state
general fund.

