







REFERENCE TITLE: dependency; households; felony reports







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2586









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee: Allen J, Bowers, Carter





AN ACT

amending section
8456, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 8, chapter 4, article 9,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 8827; relating to child
safety.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-456, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-456.Investigative function; training; criminal offenses;
definition
A.The department shall train all investigators in
forensic interviewing and processes and the protocols established pursuant to
section 8817. The training must include:
1.Uniform safety and risk assessment tools to
determine whether the conduct constitutes abuse or neglect and the severity of
the abuse or neglect.
2.The duty to protect the legal and due process
rights of children and families from the time of the initial contact through
case closure.
3.Instruction on a child's rights as a crime victim
and instruction on the legal rights of parents.
4.A checklist or other mechanism to assist the
investigator in giving consideration to the relevant factors in each
investigation.
B.The office of child welfare investigations shall
investigate reports for investigation that contain a criminal conduct
allegation as provided in sections 8471 and 8817.
C.After receiving a report for investigation from
the centralized intake hotline pursuant to section 8455, an investigator
shall do all of the following:
1.Make a prompt and thorough investigation. An
investigation must evaluate and determine the nature, extent and cause of any
condition created by the parents, guardian or custodian or an adult member of
the victim's household that would tend to support or refute the allegation that
the child is a victim of abuse or neglect and determine the name, age and
condition of other children in the home.If an investigator has
sufficient information to determine that the child is not a victim of abuse or
neglect, the investigator may close the investigation.
2.If required by section 8821 and subject to
section 8471, take a child into temporary custody. Law enforcement
officers shall cooperate with the department to remove a child from the custody
of the child's parents, guardian or custodian when necessary.
D.After an investigation, an investigator shall:
1.Determine whether any child is in need of child
safety services consistent with the evaluation and determination made pursuant
to subsection C of this section.
2.If appropriate pursuant to section 8846,
offer to the family of any child who is found to be a child in need of child
safety services those services that are designed to correct unresolved problems
that would indicate a reason to adjudicate the child dependent.
3.Submit a written
report of the investigator's investigation to:
(a)The department's
case management information system within a reasonable amount of time that does
not exceed forty-five days after receipt of the report for investigation except
as provided in section 8811. If the investigation involves allegations
regarding a child who at the time of the alleged incident was in the custody of
a child welfare agency licensed by the department under this title, a copy of
the report and any additional investigative or other related reports must be
provided to the board of directors of the agency or to the administrative head
of the agency unless the incident is alleged to have been committed by the
person. The department shall excise all information with regard to the identity
of the source of the reports.
(b)The appropriate court fortyeight hours
before a dependency hearing pursuant to a petition of dependency or within
twentyone days after a petition of dependency is filed, whichever is
earlier. On receipt of the report the court shall make the report available to
all parties and counsel.
4.Accept a child into voluntary placement pursuant
to section 8806.
5.Identify, promptly obtain and abide by court
orders that restrict or deny custody, visitation or contact by a parent or
other person in the home with the child and notify appropriate personnel in the
department to preclude violations of a court order in the provision of any
services.
6.Before
returning a child, conduct a criminal background check of any member of the
household to which the child will be returned or any person who has access to
the home and the child on a continual basis, if the investigator has credible
information or a reasonable suspicion that the member or person has been
arrested for, charged with or convicted of an offense described in section 8827,
subsection A, paragraph 2.
E.In conducting an investigation pursuant to this
section, if the investigator is made aware that an allegation of abuse or
neglect may also have been made in another state, the investigator shall
contact the appropriate agency in that state to attempt to determine the
outcome of any investigation of that allegation.
F.If an investigation indicates a reason to believe
that a criminal offense has been committed, the investigator shall immediately
provide the information to the appropriate law enforcement agency and the
office of child welfare investigations, unless the information was previously
provided pursuant to section 8455.
G.For the purposes of this section,
"investigator" means an employee of the department who investigates
allegations of abuse or neglect pursuant to a report for investigation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 8,
chapter 4, article 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
8-827, to read:
START_STATUTE8-827.Return of child; rules; notices; violation;
classification; definition
A.The department shall adopt rules regarding the
return of a child after a determination of dependency that include both of the
following:
1.A
requirement that the department conduct a criminal background check of any
member of the household to which the child will be returned, of any person who
has access to the home and the child on a continual basis and of a biological
parent of the child whose parental rights have not been terminated, if the
department has credible information or a reasonable suspicion that the member,
person or parent has been arrested for, charged with or convicted of an offense
described in paragraph 2 of this subsection.
2.If any
criminal background check performed pursuant to this subsection indicates that
a person has been arrested for, charged with or convicted of a felony offense
that involved conduct that poses an imminent threat of danger to the child, a
requirement that the child not be returned if there is significant evidence
that the alleged or convicted perpetrator's imminent threat to children cannot
be reasonably mitigated by planning and action taken by the department in
partnership with the nonoffending parent, familial resources or
providers.The imminent threat of danger shall:
(a)Be determined based on the
alleged or convicted perpetrator's pattern of behavior, the difficulty in
controlling this behavior and the alleged or convicted perpetrator's violence
against or threats to a partner or child, or both.
(b)Not be based on the residence,
location or relationship status of the alleged or convicted perpetrator.
B.In
determining the existence of an imminent threat, the department shall:
1.Consider
the nature of the felony offense, the relative time frame of the occurrence,
The alleged or convicted perpetrator's history of behavior and any other
relevant factors involved in the felony offense, including the protective
capacity of the nonoffending parent.
2.Consider
information provided by the foster family, the guardian ad litem, a domestic
violence victim advocate, a service provider or any other person deemed necessary
and with knowledge of the felony offense or the family.
C.While a
case remains open, the child's parent, guardian or custodian who is seeking the
return of the child to the child's home or to whom a child has been returned
shall notify the department of both of the following:
1.Any
changes in the members of the household or changes in persons who have access
to the home and the child on a continual basis.
2.If, to
the knowledge of the child's parent, guardian or custodian, any member of the child's
household, a biological parent whose parental rights have not been terminated
or any person who has access to the home and the child on a continual basis is
arrested for, charged with or convicted of a felony offense that involved
conduct that poses an imminent threat of danger to the child.The
inability of a parent, guardian or custodian who is seeking the return of the
child to provide this information is not a bar to the child being returned to
the parent, guardian or custodian if there is no imminent threat of danger to
the child in being returned.
D.A person
who knowingly violates subsection C of this section is guilty of a petty
offense.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "Domestic violence victim advocate" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 122239. END_STATUTE

