







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; instructional materials; review







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2542









Introduced by
Representatives
  Finchem: Borrelli, Cobb, Lawrence, Mitchell, Olson





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 1, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
15-102.01; relating to school instructional materials.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 1, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-102.01, to read:
START_STATUTE15-102.01.Instructional materials; website posting; library access;
definitions
A.Notwithstanding
any other law, Public schools shall ensure instructional transparency in all
areas of study by posting the following on the website of the school district,
school or charter school, listed by grade level and subject area:
1.Citations
for all paperbased textbooks and workbooks that are assigned to students
in the school district or charter school and citations for and website links to
all digital textbooks and workbooks that are assigned to students in the school
district or charter school.
2.Citations
for all additional paperbased reading materials that are assigned to
students in the school district or charter school, including novels, short
stories, poems, magazines and informational pieces, and citations for and
website links to all additional digital reading materials that are assigned to
students in the school district or charter school.
3.Citations
for all nontext materials to which students in the school district or charter
school are assigned or exposed, including motion pictures, television shows,
videos, electronic tutorials and electronic games.
4.For each
middle school, junior high school and high school class that is organized by
subject discipline, the course syllabus, including citations and content
outlines.
5.Assignments
in elementary schools that require students to produce projects or
compositions.
B.For all
paper-based instructional materials that are not available in digital form or
that cannot be posted on the website of the school district or charter school
due to copyright protections, the school district or charter school shall
provide at least five copies of the instructional materials without charge to
each public library and branch library located within the school district's
geographic boundary or to the public library that is nearest to the charter
school. Public libraries shall make these materials available to be checked
out of the library and reviewed by any citizen of this state without charge,
regardless of the citizen's address, and may not place any restriction on
access to these instructional materials. A citizen of this state may check out
instructional materials for the same length of time the library permits patrons
to check out fiction and nonfiction books.
C.Public
schools and persons employed at public schools may not prohibit or restrict the
access by any citizen of this state, through a password or by any other means,
to any of the information and instructional materials that are required to be
provided pursuant to this section. School districts and charter schools may
not enter into contracts or purchase any instructional materials or assessments
that restrict access to those instructional materials in any way by any citizen
of this state.
D.Each
school district, school and charter school shall indicate on its website where
parents and citizens of this state can obtain copies of printed books and other
paper-based instructional materials for checkout and review and shall encourage
citizens to examine instructional materials. The website shall allow Parents
and citizens to post comments on the instructional materials on the portion of
the website that is reserved for comments on instructional materials and
methods.
E.Each
school district, school and charter school shall do both of the following:
1.Initially
post the information required by this section on its website not later than two
hundred days after the effective date of this section.
2.Update
the instructional materials portion of its website whenever changes occur in curricula,
instructional materials, instructional practices, standards, assessments,
professional development or data collection.
F.A school
district that uses instructional content, instructional methods and assessments
that are uniform or standardized for specific grades or courses in each school
that is a part of the school district may satisfy the posting requirements of
this section by posting that information for all district schools in a single
location on the school district's website.
G.If a school
that is part of a school district does not have a website, that school's
information that is required to be posted by this section shall be posted on
the school district's website.
H.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Areas
of study" includes vocational education, literature, rhetoric, grammar,
history, civics, free-market economics, science, mathematics, philosophy,
religion, sex education, art, music, computer technology, family and consumer
science and other areas of study that are currently offered in schools.
2."Citation"
means an accurate summary of a work's title, author, publisher, edition or
volume, and international standard book number or digital object identifier and
the year in which the work was published.
3."Instructional
materials" includes paperbased or digital textbooks, workbooks,
reading materials, nontext materials, motion pictures, television shows,
videos, software, electronic tutorials, electronic games, curricula, syllabi,
standards, instructional methods, assignments, assessments, professional
development materials, data collection instruments and any other materials
that are provided to or used by students in the classroom, whether stored
locally, on the Internet or on local or remote servers or streamed or projected
through any electronic device or devices. END_STATUTE 
Sec.2.Legislative findings and declarations
The legislature finds and
declares that:
1.All Arizona
citizens have a right to and should be able to review instructional materials
and activities used in government-funded education.
2.The primary responsibility for educating children
rests with Arizona citizens who are parents and who may lend, temporarily, some
of that responsibility to public education.Nonetheless, parents who
are Arizona citizens retain the ultimate responsibility for what children
learn.In order to exercise this responsibility, parents must know
the instructional content and methods to which their children are exposed in
public education.
3.Arizona citizens have a right to review
instructional materials and activities to ensure that they do not contain
teachings or classes that are prohibited by section 15112, Arizona
Revised Statutes.
4.Arizona citizens have a right to review
instructional materials and activities to ensure that they satisfy the
preference for childbirth and adoption prescribed in section 15115,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
5.The following qualities of character have been
embedded in public education since the beginning of this country, and the goals
of public education are enhanced when these qualities permeate every subject of
the curriculum:
(a)Attentiveness.
(b)Caring.
(c)Citizenship.
(d)Compassion.
(e)Diligence.
(f)Discernment.
(g)Forgiveness.
(h)Generosity.
(i)Gratefulness.
(j)Initiative.
(k)Orderliness.
(l)Respect.
(m)Responsibility.
(n)Sincerity.
(o)Trustworthiness.
(p)Virtue.
(q)Wisdom.
6.The ultimate goal for the Arizona public
education system is to facilitate student acquisition of knowledge that is
necessary:
(a)For responsible citizenship in the United States
representative republic that holds to the spirit of the Declaration of
Independence's "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" and to
the principle that governing legitimacy is derived from consent of the
governed.
(b)For military service.
(c)To prepare students for careers or postsecondary
education, or both.
7.Central to students' acquisition of knowledge is
learning the sources of liberty, how liberty became established in America and
what is required of individuals to sustain liberty, as well as the limited
government structure that is essential for liberty's
sustenance.Public education should not entail indoctrination or a political
agenda.To that end, the outcomes of nonrepresentative republic
regimes should be contrasted with America's representative republic and
liberty.
8.Good government requires transparency, and a
representative republic cannot sustain liberty without citizens who possess
knowledge of all aspects of government entities, including taxpayer-funded
education.
9.Unfettered access to instructional materials and
methods by Arizona citizens is necessary to ensure that schooling adheres to
the laws of this state and to halt instructional policies and practices that
are designed to mold students into dependent and manipulable adults.

