







REFERENCE TITLE: property; diminution; compensation;
  federal law







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2571









Introduced by
Representative
  Townsend





AN ACT

amending section
12-1134, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the private property rights
protection act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Subject to the requirements of
article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 12-1134,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-1134.Diminution in value; just compensation
A.If the existing rights to use, divide, sell or
possess private real property are reduced by the enactment or applicability of
any land use law enacted after the date the property is transferred to the
owner and such action reduces the fair market value of the property the owner
is entitled to just compensation from this state or the political subdivision
of this state that enacted the land use law.
B.This section does not apply to land use laws
that:
1.Limit or prohibit a use or division of real
property for the protection of the public's health and safety, including rules
and regulations relating to fire and building codes, health and sanitation,
transportation or traffic control, solid or hazardous waste, and pollution
control. ;
2.Limit or prohibit the use or division of real
property commonly and historically recognized as a public nuisance under common
law. ;
3.Are
required by federal law;
4.3.Limit
or prohibit the use or division of a property for the purpose of housing sex
offenders, selling illegal drugs, liquor control, or pornography, obscenity,
nude or topless dancing, and other adult oriented businesses if the land use
laws are consistent with the constitutions of this state and the United States. ;
5.4.Establish
locations for utility facilities. ;
6.5.Do
not directly regulate an owner's land. ; or
7.6.Were
enacted before the effective date of this
section December 7, 2006.
C.This state or the political subdivision of this
state that enacted the land use law has the burden of demonstrating that the
land use law is exempt pursuant to subsection B of this section.
D.The owner shall not be required to first submit a
land use application to remove, modify, vary or otherwise alter the application
of the land use law to the owner's property as a prerequisite to demanding or receiving
just compensation pursuant to this section.
E.If a land use law continues to apply to private
real property more than ninety days after the owner of the property makes a
written demand in a specific amount for just compensation to this state or the
political subdivision of this state that enacted the land use law, the owner
has a cause of action for just compensation in a court in the county in which
the property is located, unless this state or political subdivision of this
state and the owner reach an agreement on the amount of just compensation to be
paid, or unless this state or political subdivision of this state amends,
repeals, or issues to the landowner a binding waiver of enforcement of the land
use law on the owner's specific parcel.
F.Any demand for landowner relief or any waiver
that is granted in lieu of compensation runs with the land.
G.An action for just compensation based on
diminution in value must be made or forever barred within three years of the
effective date of the land use law, or of the first date the reduction of the
existing rights to use, divide, sell or possess property applies to the owner's
parcel, whichever is later.
H.The remedy created by this section is in addition
to any other remedy that is provided by the laws and constitution of this state
or the United States and is not intended to modify or replace any other remedy.
I.Nothing in this section prohibits this state or
any political subdivision of this state from reaching an agreement with a
private property owner to waive a claim for diminution in value regarding any
proposed action by this state or a political subdivision of this state or
action requested by the property owner. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 12-1134, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, is
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
of each house of the legislature.

