







REFERENCE TITLE: sex offender registration; petition;
  termination







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2539









Introduced by
Representative
  Bowers





AN ACT

amending title
13, chapter 38, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 133826;
relating to sex offender registration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 13, chapter 38, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-3826, to read:
START_STATUTE13-3826.Petition to terminate sex offender registration; hearing;
notice
A.A defendant who is convicted of a violation of section
131405, who is required to register pursuant to section 133821
and who successfully completes a term of probation may petition the court for
an order to terminate any duty to register and shall serve a copy of the
petition on the prosecutor. In the petition, the defendant shall avow, under
penalty of perjury, that none of the following factors apply:
1.The defendant was twentytwo years of age or
older at the time the offense was committed.
2.The victim was under fifteen years of age at the time
of the offense.
3.The sexual conduct was not consensual.
4.The defendant, at any time, was found in violation of
any of the sex offender terms of the defendant's probation.
5.The defendant subsequently committed another felony
offense or any offense included in chapter 14 or 35.1 of this title.
6.A court has determined that probable cause exists to
believe the defendant is a sexually violent person pursuant to title 36,
chapter 37 or a sexually violent person proceeding pursuant to title 36,
chapter 37 is currently pending.
7.The violation involved more than one victim.
8.The defendant was sentenced to a term of imprisonment
in the state department of corrections for the offense for which the defendant was
required to register.
B.On receipt of the petition, the court shall set a
hearing and provide sufficient notice to the state to allow victim
notification. The state has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of
the evidence the existence of any factor listed in subsection A of this
section. At the hearing, any party may introduce any reliable and relevant
evidence, including hearsay evidence. Before ruling on the petition, The court
must provide all parties, including the victim, with the opportunity to be
heard.
C.The court shall deny the petition if the court finds
that any of the factors listed in subsection A of this section applies.
D.Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, the
court may deny a petition if the court finds that a denial is in the best interests
of justice or tends to ensure the safety of the public. END_STATUTE

