







REFERENCE TITLE: nonprofit corporations; electronic
  voting







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2592









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley, Thorpe





AN ACT

amending section
10-3708, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to nonprofit corporations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 10-3708, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-3708.Action by written ballot; online voting
A.Unless prohibited or limited by the articles of
incorporation or bylaws, any action that the corporation may take at any
annual, regular or special meeting of members may be taken without a meeting if
the corporation delivers a written ballot to every member entitled to vote on
the matter.
B.A written ballot shall:
1.Set forth each proposed action.
2.Provide an opportunity to vote for or against
each proposed action.
C.Approval by written ballot pursuant to this
section is valid only if both:
1.The number of votes cast by ballot equals or
exceeds the quorum required to be present at a meeting authorizing the action.
2.The number of approvals equals or exceeds the
number of votes that would be required to approve the matter at a meeting at
which the total number of votes cast was the same as the number of votes cast
by ballot.
D.All solicitations for votes by written ballot
shall:
1.Indicate the number of responses needed to meet
the quorum requirements.
2.State the percentage of approvals necessary to
approve each matter other than election of directors.
3.Specify the time by which a ballot must be
delivered to the corporation in order to be counted, which time shall not be
less than three days after the date that the corporation delivers the ballot.
E.Except as otherwise provided in the articles of
incorporation or bylaws, a written ballot shall not be revoked.
F.After
providing notice to members that a vote shall be conducted by electronic means,
a written ballot may be delivered through an online voting system that does all
of the following:
1.Authenticates
the member's identity.
2.Authenticates
the validity of each electronic vote to ensure that the vote is not altered in
transit.
3.Transmits
a receipt to each member who casts an electronic vote.
4.Stores
electronic votes for recount, inspection and review purposes. END_STATUTE

