







REFERENCE TITLE: insurance; risk retention groups







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2553









Introduced by
Representative
  Fann





AN ACT

Amending section
202402, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to risk retention groups.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-2402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-2402.Risk retention groups chartered and licensed in this
state; definitions
A.A risk retention group, pursuant to this title,
shall be chartered and licensed to write only liability insurance pursuant to
this chapter and, except as provided in this chapter, must comply with this
title with respect to insurers which that are chartered and
licensed in this state and with section 202403.Before it may
offer insurance in any state, each risk retention group shall also submit for
approval to the director of the
department of insurance a plan of operation or a feasibility
study and revisions of the plan or study if the group intends to offer any
additional lines of liability insurance.The group shall not offer
any additional kinds of liability insurance in this state or in any other state
until a revision of the plan or study is approved by the director of the department of insurance.
B.Immediately on receipt of an application for a
charter, this state shall provide summary information concerning the filing to
the national association of insurance commissioners, including the name of the
risk retention group, the identity of the initial members of the group, the
identity of those individuals who organized the group or who will provide
administrative services or otherwise influence or control the activities of the
group, the amount and nature of initial capitalization, the coverages to be
afforded and the states in which the group intends to operate.
C.A risk retention group that is
licensed in this state shall comply with all of the following:
1.The
board of directors of the risk retention group shall have a majority of
independent board directors. If the risk retention group is a reciprocal risk
retention group, the attorney-in-fact shall be required to adhere to the same
standards regarding independence of operation and governance as imposed on the
risk retention group's board of directors or subscribers' advisory committee,
or both, under these standards, and, to the extent permissible under this
state's laws, service providers of a reciprocal risk retention group shall
contract with the risk retention group and not the attorney-in-fact.
2.A
board director does not qualify as independent unless the board of directors
affirmatively determines that the board director has no material relationship
with the risk retention group. Each risk retention group shall disclose these
determinations to its domestic regulator, at least annually. Any person that is
a direct or indirect owner of or subscriber in the risk retention group or is
an officer, board director or employee, or all three, of an owner and insured,
as contemplated by 15 United States code section 3901(a)(4)(E)(ii), is considered to be independent,
unless some other position of that officer, board director or employee
constitutes a material relationship.
3.The
term of any material service provider contract with the risk retention group
may not exceed five years. Any contract or its renewal shall require the
approval of the majority of the risk retention group's independent board
directors. The risk retention group's board of directors shall have the right
to terminate any service provider, audit or actuarial contracts at any time for
cause after providing adequate notice as defined in the contract. The service
provider contract is deemed material if the amount to be paid for that contract
is greater than or equal to five percent of the risk retention group's annual
gross written premium or two percent of its surplus, whichever is
greater.A service provider contract that is a material relationship
may not be entered into unless the risk retention group has notified the
director of the department of insurance in writing of its intention to enter
into the transaction at least thirty days before and the director of the
department of insurance has not disapproved the transaction within that period.
4.The
board of directors of a risk retention group shall adopt a written policy in
the plan of operation as approved by the board that requires the board of
directors to do all of the following:
(a)Ensure that all owners
or insureds, or both, of the risk retention group receive evidence of ownership
interest.
(b)Develop a set of
governance standards applicable to the risk retention group.
(c)Oversee the evaluation
of the risk retention group's management, including the performance of the
captive manager, managing general underwriter or other parties responsible for
underwriting, determination of rates, collection of premium, adjusting or
settling claims or the preparation of financial statements.
(d)Review and approve the
amount to be paid for all material service providers.
(e)Review and approve, at
least annually, all of the following:
(i)The risk retention
group's goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of officers and
service providers.
(ii)The officers' and
service providers' performance in light of those goals and objectives.
(iii)The continued
engagement of the officers and material service providers.
5.Each
risk retention group shall have an audit committee composed of at least three
independent board members. A nonindependent board member may participate in
the activities of the audit committee, if invited by the members, but cannot be
a member of that committee. The audit committee shall have a written charter
that defines the committee's purpose, which, at a minimum, shall be to do all
of the following:
(a)Assist in board
oversight of the integrity of the financial statements, the compliance with
legal and regulatory requirements and the qualifications, independence and
performance of the independent auditor and actuary.
(b)Discuss the annual
audited financial statements and quarterly financial statements with
management.
(c)Discuss the annual
audited financial statements with its independent auditor and, if advisable,
discuss its quarterly financial statements with its independent auditor.
(d)Discuss policies with
respect to risk assessment and risk management.
(e)Meet separately and periodically,
either directly or through a designated representative of the committee, with
management and independent auditors.
(f)Review with the
independent auditor any audit problems or difficulties and management's
response.
(g)Set clear hiring policies
of the risk retention group as to the hiring of employees or former employees
of the independent auditor.
(h)Require the external
auditor to rotate the lead or coordinating audit partner having primary
responsibility for the risk retention group's audit as well as the audit
partner responsible for reviewing that audit, so that neither individual
performs audit services for more than five consecutive fiscal years.
(i)Report regularly to
the board of directors.
6.The
director of the department of insurance may waive the requirement to establish
an audit committee pursuant to paragraph 5 of this subsection if the risk
retention group demonstrates to the director that doing so is impracticable and
the risk retention group's board of directors is otherwise able to fulfill the
requirements of the audit committee as set forth in this section.
7.The
board of directors shall adopt and disclose governance standards by making the
information available through electronic means, such as posting the information
on the risk retention group's website, or other means, and providing that
information to members and insureds on request. The information shall include
all of the following:
(a)A process by which the
board directors are elected by the owners or insureds, or both.
(b)Board director
qualification standards.
(c)Board director
responsibilities.
(d)Board director access
to management and, as necessary and appropriate, independent advisers.
(e)Board director
compensation.
(f)Board Director orientation
and continuing education.
(g)The policies and
procedures that are followed for management succession.
(h) The policies and procedures that
are followed for the annual performance evaluation of the board.
8.The
board of directors shall adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and
ethics for board directors, officers and employees and promptly disclose to the
board of directors any waivers of the code for board directors or executive
officers, including all of the following topics:
(a)Conflicts of interest.
(b)Matters covered under
the corporate opportunity doctrine under the state of domicile.
(c)Confidentiality.
(d)Fair dealing.
(e)Protection and proper
use of risk retention group assets.
(f)Compliance with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations.
(g)Requiring the
reporting of any illegal or unethical behavior that affects the operation of
the risk retention group.
9.The
captive manager, president or chief executive officer of the risk retention
group shall promptly notify the domestic regulator, in writing, if either
becomes aware of any material noncompliance with any of the risk retention
group's governance standards.
D.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Board
director" means a natural person designated in the articles of the risk
retention group, or designated, elected or appointed by any other manner, name
or title to act as a board director.
2."Board
of directors" or "board" means the governing body of the risk
retention group elected by the shareholders or members to establish policy,
elect or appoint officers and committees and make other governing decisions.
3."Material
relationship" means a person's relationship with the risk retention group,
including any of the following:
(a)The receipt in any one
twelve-month period of compensation or payment of any other item of value by
that person, a member of that person's immediate family or any business with
which that person is affiliated from the risk retention group or a consultant
or service provider to the risk retention group that is greater than or equal
to five percent of the risk retention group's gross written premium for that
twelve-month period or two percent of its surplus, whichever is greater, as
measured at the end of any fiscal quarter falling in a twelve-month period.
The person or immediate family member of that person is not independent until
one year after the person's compensation from the risk retention group falls
below the threshold.
(b)A relationship with an
auditor in which a board director or an immediate family member of a board
director who is affiliated with, or employed in, a professional capacity by a
present or former internal or external auditor of the risk retention group is
not independent until one year after the end of the affiliation, employment or
auditing relationship.
(c)A relationship with a
related entity in which a board director or immediate family member of a board
director who is employed as an executive officer of another company where any
of the risk retention group's present executives serve on that other company's
board of directors is not independent until one year after the end of that
service or the employment relationship.
4."Service
providers" includes captive managers, auditors, accountants, actuaries,
investment advisers, attorneys and managing general underwriters or any other
party responsible for underwriting, determination of rates, collection of
premium, adjusting and settling claims or the preparation of financial
statements. For the purposes of this paragraph, attorney does not include
defense counsel retained by the risk retention group to defend claims, unless
the amount of fees paid to those attorneys create a material relationship.END_STATUTE

