







REFERENCE TITLE: counties; annual audits







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2525









Introduced by
Representative
  Thorpe





AN ACT

amending title
11, chapter 4, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 11666;
amending sections 411279.07 and 411279.21, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to county audits.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 11, chapter 4, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 11-666, to read:
START_STATUTE11-666.Audits of counties
A.The board of supervisors of each county may
cause an audit to be made by a certified public accountant or public accountant
who is currently licensed by the Arizona state board of accountancy and who is
not an employee of the county. Audits shall be made for each fiscal year for
all counties.
B.The audit and the audit report shall include
all of the accounts and funds of the county, including operating, special,
utility, debt, trust and pension, and all other monies or property for which
the county, or any department or officer of the county, is responsible either
directly or indirectly.The audits shall be made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards.The consequent audit report
shall contain financial statements that are in conformity with generally
accepted government accounting principles and set forth the financial position
and results of the operations for each fund and account of the county. The
audit report shall also include the following:
1.The professional opinion of the accountant or
accountants with respect to the financial statements or, if an opinion cannot
be expressed, a declaration of the reasons an opinion cannot be expressed.
2.A determination as to whether Arizona highway
user revenue fund monies received by the county pursuant to title 28, chapter
18, article 2 and any other dedicated state transportation revenues received by
the county are being used solely for the authorized transportation purposes.
C.The audit shall begin as soon as possible
after the close of the fiscal year, although interim auditing may be performed
during the year or years under audit.
D.At least four copies of the audit report shall
be signed by the auditor and filed with the county.The county shall
immediately do the following:
1.Make one copy of the report a public record
that is open to the public for inspection.
2.File one copy of the report with the auditor
general pursuant to section 411279.07.
3.Submit one copy of the report to the secretary
of state.
E.The expense of the audit shall be paid by the
county for which the audit is made. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-1279.07, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1279.07.Uniform expenditure reporting system; reports by counties,
community college districts, cities and towns; certification and attestation;
assistance by auditor general; violation; classification
A.The auditor general
shall prescribe a uniform expenditure reporting system for all political
subdivisions subject to the constitutional expenditure limitations prescribed
by article IX, sections 20 and 21, Constitution of Arizona.The
system shall include:
1.For counties:
(a)An annual
expenditure limitation report that includes at least the following information:
(i)The expenditure
limitation established for the reporting fiscal year by the economic estimates
commission.
(ii)Total expenditures,
by fund, for the reporting fiscal year.
(iii)Total exclusions
from local revenues, as defined by article IX, section 20, Constitution of
Arizona, by fund, for the reporting fiscal year.
(iv)Total amounts, by
fund, of expenditures subject to the expenditure limitation for the reporting
fiscal year.
(b)Annual financial
statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(c)A reconciliation of
the total expenditures reported within the financial statements to the total
expenditures stated within the expenditure limitation report.
2.For community college
districts:
(a)An annual budgeted
expenditure limitation report that includes at least the following information:
(i)The expenditure
limitation established for the reporting fiscal year by the economic estimates
commission.
(ii)Total budgeted
expenditures, by fund, for the reporting fiscal year.
(iii)Total exclusions
from local revenues, as defined by article IX, section 21, Constitution of
Arizona, by fund, for the reporting fiscal year.
(iv)Total amounts, by
fund, of budgeted expenditures subject to the expenditure limitation for the
reporting fiscal year.
(b)Annual financial
statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(c)A reconciliation of
the total expenditures reported within the financial statements to the total
expenditures reported within the expenditure limitation report.
3.For cities and towns:
(a)An annual
expenditure limitation report that includes at least the following information:
(i)The expenditure
limitation established for the reporting fiscal year by the economic estimates
commission and, if applicable, the voter approved alternative expenditure
limitation.
(ii)Total expenditures,
by fund, for the reporting fiscal year.
(iii)Total exclusions
from local revenues, as defined by article IX, section 20, Constitution of
Arizona, by fund, for the reporting fiscal year or, if applicable, the total
exclusions from the voter approved alternative expenditure limitation.
(iv)Total
amounts, by fund, of expenditures subject to the expenditure limitation for the
reporting fiscal year.
(b)Financial
statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(c)A reconciliation of
the total expenditures reported within the financial statements to the total
expenditures reported within the expenditure limitation report.
B.The auditor general
shall provide detailed instructions for completion and submission of the
reports described in subsection A of this section. The auditor general shall
prescribe definitions for terms utilized in and the form of the reports
described in subsection A of this section. The reports described in subsection
A of this section are required of counties and community college districts
beginning with fiscal year 19811982.The reports described in
subsection A of this section are required of cities and towns beginning with
the fiscal year the political subdivision is subject to the expenditure
limitation.The annual reporting requirements also apply to
political subdivisions subject to an alternative expenditure limitation enacted
pursuant to article IX, section 20, subsection (9), Constitution of Arizona.
C.The reports described
in subsection A of this section must be filed with the auditor general within
nine months after the close of each fiscal year.
D.The auditor general
or a certified public accountant or public accountant performing the annual
audit required pursuant to sections 411279.21
and section 9481, 11666 or 41-1279.21
shall attest to the expenditure limitation reports and financial statements for
counties, community college districts and cities.The certified
public accountant or public accountant performing the annual or biennial audit
required pursuant to section 9481 shall attest to the expenditure
limitation reports and financial statements for towns.
E.Each political
subdivision shall provide to the auditor general by July 31 each year the name
of the chief fiscal officer designated by the governing board of the political
subdivision to submit the current fiscal year's expenditure limitation
report.The political subdivision shall notify the auditor general
of any changes of individuals designated to file the required
reports.The designated chief fiscal officer shall certify to the
accuracy of the annual expenditure limitation report.
F.The auditor general
shall prescribe forms for the uniform reporting system and may provide
assistance to individuals, certified public accountants or public accountants
responsible for attesting to the expenditure limitation reports and financial statements.
G.A chief fiscal
officer, designated pursuant to subsection E of this section, who subsequent to
July 1, 1983 refuses to file the reports required by this section within the
prescribed time periods or who intentionally files erroneous reports is guilty
of a class 1 misdemeanor.A city or town exceeding the expenditure
limitation prescribed or authorized pursuant to article IX, section 20,
Constitution of Arizona, for any fiscal year, without authorization pursuant to
such section, shall have the amount specified in subsection H of this section
of its allocations of the state income tax, distributed pursuant to section 43206,
withheld and redistributed to other cities and towns in the same manner as
determined pursuant to that section, except that the population of the city or
town exceeding the expenditure limitation shall not be included in the
computation, and the city or town exceeding the expenditure limitation shall
not be entitled to share in the redistribution. A community college district
exceeding the expenditure limitation prescribed pursuant to article IX, section
21, Constitution of Arizona, for any fiscal year, without authorization
pursuant to such section or section 151471, shall have the amount
specified in subsection H of this section of its allocations of state aid,
distributed pursuant to section 151466, withheld.
H.The auditor general
shall hold a hearing to determine if any political subdivision has exceeded the
expenditure limitations prescribed pursuant to article IX, sections 20 and 21,
Constitution of Arizona.If a county has exceeded the expenditure
limitations prescribed pursuant to article IX, section 20, Constitution of
Arizona, without authorization pursuant to that section, the auditor general
shall notify the board of supervisors of the county to reduce the allowable
levy of primary property taxes of the county pursuant to section 4217051,
subsection C.If any political subdivision other than a county has
exceeded the expenditure limitations prescribed pursuant to article IX,
sections 20 and 21, Constitution of Arizona, without authorization, the auditor
general shall notify the state treasurer to withhold a portion of the political
subdivision's allocations of the revenues described in subsection G of this
section for the fiscal year subsequent to the auditor general's hearing as
follows:
1.If the excess
expenditures are less than five percent of the limitation, an amount equal to
the excess expenditures.
2.If the excess
expenditures are equal to or greater than five percent but less than ten
percent of the limitation, or are less than five percent of the limitation but
it is at least the second consecutive instance of excess expenditures, an
amount equal to triple the excess expenditures.
3.If the excess expenditures
are equal to or greater than ten percent of the limitation, an amount equal to
five times the excess expenditures or onethird of the allocation of the
revenues described in subsection G of this section, whichever is less.
I.A county, city or town
is not deemed to have exceeded the expenditure limitation if the county, city
or town makes expenditures for capital improvements from utility revenues
pursuant to title 9, chapter 5, article 3 or from excise taxes levied by the
county, city or town for a specific purpose and the county, city or town repays
the expenditure from the proceeds of bonds or other lawful longterm
obligations before the hearing required by subsection H of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Heading change
The article heading of title 41,
chapter 7, article 10.2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is changed from "POST
AUDIT OF COUNTIES, COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICTS AND SCHOOL DISTRICTS" to
"POSTAUDIT OF COUNTIES, COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICTS AND SCHOOL
DISTRICTS".
Sec.4.Section 41-1279.21, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1279.21.Powers and duties of auditor general relating to counties,
school districts and community colleges
A.In addition to other powers and duties prescribed
by law, the auditor general shall:
1.In
concurrence with a county that does not cause an audit to be conducted pursuant
to section 11666, conduct or cause to be conducted annual
financial and compliance audits of financial transactions and accounts kept by
or for all counties that county.Each the county shall provide financial information
for inclusion in the annual audit that verifies that highway user revenue fund
monies received by the county pursuant to title 28, chapter 18, article 2 and
any other dedicated state transportation revenues received by the county are
being used solely for the authorized transportation purposes.
2.Perform procedural reviews for school districts that
are not required to comply with the single audit act of 1984 (P.L. 98502)
at times determined by the auditor general.These reviews may
include evaluation of administrative and accounting internal controls and
reports on such reviews.
3.Conduct or cause to be conducted annual audits of
financial transactions and accounts kept by or for community college districts.
4.Approve contracts for financial and compliance
auditing services except if specific statutory authority is otherwise
provided.The auditor general shall ensure that such contract audits
are conducted in accordance with generally accepted governmental auditing
standards and shall determine if such audits meet minimum audit standards
prescribed by the auditor general.An audit shall not be accepted as
meeting the requirements of this paragraph until it has been approved by the
auditor general.
5.Order and enforce a correct and uniform system of
accounting by county, community college district and school district officers
and instruct them in the proper mode of keeping accounts of their offices.
6.Require of county treasurers and custodians of
county, community college district or school district funds, as often as the
auditor general deems necessary, a verified statement of their accounts.
7.Report to the committee and to the attorney
general the refusal or neglect of any county, community college district or
school district officer to conform to rules and regulations of the auditor
general's office.
8.Report to the committee and to the governor the
result of the auditor general's examinations of county, community college
district and school district offices as often as required by public interest.
B.The auditor
general may adopt rules providing for disapproving contracts, and suspending or
debarring any contractor providing financial and compliance auditing services
to a school district based upon applicable standards similar to those adopted
by this state under section 412613.
C.Notwithstanding any other law, the disapproval of
a contract or the suspension or debarment may be appealed to the superior court
pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE

