







REFERENCE TITLE: personal care products; plastic
  microbeads







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2528









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Espinoza, Hale, Otondo, Plumlee, Rios: Allen J,
  Alston, Benally, Bowers, Clark, Fernandez, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Larkin,
  Lawrence, Meyer, Norgaard, Thorpe, Velasquez, Senator Dalessandro





AN ACT

amending title
44, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 36; relating to personal care
products.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 44, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 36, to read:
CHAPTER 36
PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS CONTAINING SYNTHETIC PLASTIC
MICROBEADS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE44-7851.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Label"
includes:
(a)A drug facts panel.
(b)A statement of the active ingredients with a list of those
ingredients contained in the compound, substance or preparation.
2."Overthecounter
drug" means a drug that is a personal care product that contains a label
that identifies the product as a drug as required by 21 Code of Federal
Regulations section 201.66.
3."Personal
care product":
(a)Means any article intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled
or sprayed on, introduced into or otherwise applied to the human body or any
part of the human body for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness or
altering appearance and includes any article intended for use as a component of
any such article.
(b)Does not include any prescription drug.
4."Plastic"
means a synthetic material made from linking monomers through a chemical
reaction to create an organic polymer chain that can be molded or extruded at
high heat into various solid forms that retain their defined shapes during
their life cycle and after disposal.
5."Synthetic
plastic microbead" means any intentionally added nonbiodegradable solid
plastic particle that measures less than five millimeters in size and that is
used to exfoliate or cleanse in a rinse-off product. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7852.Personal care products; synthetic plastic microbeads;
prohibitions; civil penalty
A.Beginning
January 1, 2017, a person may not manufacture for sale a personal care product,
except for an over-the-counter drug, that contains synthetic plastic
microbeads.
B.Beginning January 1, 2018, a person may not do
either of the following:
1.Accept for sale a personal care product,
except for an overthecounter drug, that contains synthetic
plastic microbeads.
2.Manufacture
for sale an overthecounter drug that contains synthetic plastic
microbeads.
C.Beginning
January 1, 2019, a person may not accept for sale an overthecounter
drug that contains synthetic plastic microbeads.
D.A person
who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty of not more than one
thousand dollars for the first violation and not more than two thousand five
hundred dollars for a second or subsequent violation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE44-7853.Enforcement
The attorney general
shall enforce this chapter. END_STATUTE

