







REFERENCE TITLE: conforming changes; real estate
  appraisal







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2560









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee: Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
6-101, 32-3601 and 32-3605, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section
32-3606, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 323607, Arizona
Revised Statutes; repealing section 32-3608, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending
sections 32-3609, 32-3610, 32-3611, 32-3613, 32-3614, 323614.01,
32-3614.02, 32-3615, 32-3617, 32-3618, 32-3619, 32-3620, 32-3621, 32-3622,
32-3625, 32-3626, 32-3627, 32-3628, 32-3631, 32-3632, 32-3635, 323637,
32-3638, 32-3639, 32-3651, 32-3652, 32-3653, 32-3654, 32-3655, 323662,
32-3664, 32-3666, 32-3667, 32-3668, 32-3669, 32-3671, 32-3672, 323677,
32-3678, 32-3679, 32-3680, 32-4301, 41-619.51, 41-1092, 41-1758 and 41-3024.03,
Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies; relating to real estate
appraisal.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Automated teller machine" means an
automated device that is established by a bank, savings and loan association or
credit union and that facilitates customerbank communications
activities, including taking deposits and disbursing cash drawn against a
customer's deposit account or a customer's preapproved loan account, at a
location separate from the home office or a branch.
2."Bank" means a corporation that holds a
banking permit issued pursuant to chapter 2 of this title.
3."Banking office" means any place of
business of the bank at which deposits are received, checks are paid or money
is loaned but does not include the premises used for computer operations,
proofing, record keeping, accounting, storage, maintenance or other
administrative or service functions.
4."Branch" means any banking office other
than the principal banking office.
5."Department" means the department of
financial institutions.
6."Enterprise" means any person under the
jurisdiction of the department other than a financial institution.
7."Federal deposit insurance corporation"
includes any successor to the corporation or other agency or instrumentality of
the United States which that undertakes to discharge
the purposes of the corporation.
8."Financial institution" means banks,
trust companies, savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer
lenders, international banking facilities and financial institution holding
companies under the jurisdiction of the department.
9."Home state" means the state that has
granted the bank its charter, permit or license to operate.
10."Host state" means the state in which
a financial institution is doing business and not the state that has granted
the bank its charter, permit or license to operate.
11."Instate financial institution"
means a state or federal bank, savings bank, savings and loan association or
holding company with its home office located in this state.
12."International banking facility" means
a facility that is represented
by a set of asset and liability accounts segregated on the books and records of
a commercial bank, the principal office of which is located in this state, and which that is incorporated and doing business under
the laws of the United States or of this state, a United States branch or
agency of a foreign bank, an edge corporation organized under section 25(a) of
the federal reserve act (12 United States Code sections 611 through 631) or an
agreement corporation having an agreement or undertaking with the board of governors
of the federal reserve system under section 25 of the federal reserve act (12
United States Code sections 601 through 604(a)) that includes only
international banking facility time deposits and international banking facility
extensions of credit as defined in 12 Code of Federal Regulations part 204.
13."National credit union administration"
includes any successor to the organization or other agency or instrumentality
of the United States which that undertakes to discharge
the purposes of the organization.
14."Outofstate bank" means
a bank, savings bank or savings and loan association that is approved by the
superintendent pursuant to section 6322 and that has a charter, a permit
or any other license to operate that is issued by a state other than this
state.
15."Outofstate financial
institution" means a state or federal bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association or holding company with its home office in a state other than this
state.
16."Superintendent" means the
superintendent of financial institutions.
17."Title" includes this title, title 32,
chapter chapters 9 and 36 and title 44, chapter 2.1. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-3601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Appraisal" or "real estate
appraisal" means a statement that is independently and impartially
prepared by an individual setting forth an opinion as to the market value of
real property as of a specific date and supported by the presentation and
analysis of relevant market information.
2."Appraisal assignment" means an
engagement for which a real estate appraiser is employed or retained to act, or
would be perceived by third parties or the public in acting, as a disinterested
third party in rendering an unbiased analysis, opinion or conclusion relating
to the nature, quality, value or utility of specified interests in or aspects
of identified real estate.
3."Appraisal foundation" means the
appraisal foundation incorporated as an Illinois notforprofit
corporation on November 30, 1987.
4."Appraisal report" means any
communication, written or oral, of an appraisal.
5."Appraisal review" means the act of
reviewing or the report that follows a review of an appraisal assignment or
appraisal report in which a real estate appraiser forms an opinion as to the
adequacy and appropriateness of the report being reviewed.
6."Appraisal standards board" means the
appraisal standards board appointed by the board of trustees of the appraisal
foundation to develop, interpret and amend the uniform standards of
professional appraisal practice.
7."Appraisal subcommittee" means the subcommittee
of the federal financial institutions examination council created pursuant to
12 United States Code section 3310 and chapter 34A, as amended.
8."Appraiser qualifications board" means
the appraiser qualifications board that is appointed by the board of trustees
of the appraisal foundation to establish the minimum education, experience and
examination requirements for real estate appraisers.
9."Complex one to four residential units"
means property that is atypical for the marketplace.Atypical factors
may include architectural style, age of improvements, size of improvements,
size of lot, neighborhood land use, potential environmental hazard liability,
leasehold interests, limited readily available comparable sales data or other
unusual factors.
10."Course approval" means the act of the
superintendent reviewing course materials to form an opinion as to the adequacy
and appropriateness of the course for licensing pursuant to section 323613,
certification pursuant to section 323614 and continuing education as
prescribed in section 323625 in accordance with the appraiser
qualifications board and this chapter.
11."Department"
means the department of financial institutions.
11.12."Federal
financial institutions examination council" means that agency of the
federal government created pursuant to 12 United States Code chapters 34 and
34A, as amended.
12.13."Federally
related transaction" means any real estate related financial transaction
that a federal financial institution's regulatory agency or the resolution
trust corporation engages in, contracts for or regulates and that requires an
appraisal.
13.14."Property
tax agent" means an individual who is designated by a person or is an
employee of an entity designated as an agent pursuant to section 4216001,
who acts on behalf of a person who owns, controls or possesses property valued
by a county assessor and who receives a fee for the analysis of any matter
relating to the review of the valuation of the person's property before the
assessor. Property tax agent does not include a person who is admitted to
practice law in this state, an employee of the person owning, controlling or
possessing the property or an employee of an entity designated pursuant to
section 4216001, if the employee is performing a secretarial, clerical
or administrative support function.
14.15."Real
estate" means an identified parcel or tract of land, including
improvements, if any.
15.16."Real
estate related financial transaction" means any transaction involving the
sale of, lease of, purchase of, investment in or exchange of real property,
including interests in property or the financing of property, the refinancing
of real property or interests in real property and the use of real property or
interests in property as security for a loan or investment, including mortgagebacked securities.
16.17."Real
property" means one or more defined interests, benefits and rights
inherent in the ownership of real estate.
17.18."Registered
trainee appraiser" means a person who meets both of the following
requirements:
(a)Is registered with the superintendent and meets
the appraiser qualifications board's qualifications for trainee appraisers to
perform appraisal services only under the direct supervision of a certified
appraiser who has met the minimum criteria to be a supervisory appraiser.
(b)Accepts assignments only from the registered
trainee appraiser's supervisory appraiser.
18.19."Review
appraiser" means a person who engages in the activity of reviewing and
evaluating the appraisal work of others from the perspective of an appraiser,
generally for compensation as a separate skill.This includes the
function of reviewing an appraisal report or a file memorandum setting forth
the results of the review process.
19.20."Standards
of professional appraisal practice" means the uniform standards of
professional appraisal practice adopted by the superintendent.
20.21."State
licensed or state certified appraiser" means a person who develops and
communicates appraisals and who holds a current, valid license or certificate
issued under this chapter.
21.22."Superintendent"
means the superintendent of financial institutions.
22.23."Supervisory
appraiser" means a state certified appraiser who has a supervisory
appraiser designation and who:
(a)Has been in good standing for the last three
years in the jurisdiction in which the registered trainee appraiser practices.
(b)Has not been disciplined in a manner that
affects the supervisory appraiser's eligibility to engage in appraisal practice
in any jurisdiction in the last three years.
(c)Directly supervises registered trainee
appraisers by doing the following:
(i)Accepting
responsibility for an appraisal by signing and certifying that the appraisal complies
with the uniform standards of professional appraisal practice.
(ii)Reviewing and signing all registered trainee
appraiser reports.
(iii)Personally inspecting each appraised property
with the registered trainee appraiser.
23.24."Value"
means the monetary relationship between properties and those who buy, sell or
use those properties. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-3605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3605.Superintendent; duties; powers; immunity
A.The superintendent shall adopt rules in aid or in
furtherance of this chapter.
B.The superintendent
shall:
1.In prescribing
standards of professional appraisal practice, adopt standards that at a minimum
are equal to the standards prescribed by the appraisal standards board.
2.In prescribing criteria for certification, adopt
criteria that at a minimum are equal to the minimum criteria for certification
adopted by the appraiser qualifications board.
3.In prescribing criteria for licensing and
registration, adopt criteria that at a minimum are equal to the minimum
criteria for licensing and registration adopted by the appraiser qualifications
board.
4.Further define by rule with respect to state
licensed or state certified appraisers appropriate and reasonable educational
experience, appraisal experience and equivalent experience that meets the
statutory requirement of this chapter.
5.Adopt the national examination as approved by the
appraiser qualifications board for state certified appraisers.
6.Adopt the national examination as approved by the
appraiser qualifications board for state licensed appraisers.
7.Establish administrative procedures for:
(a)Processing applications for
licenses and certificates.
(b)Approving or
disapproving applications for registration, licensure and certification. and 
(c)Issuing licenses
and certificates, including registration certificates.
8.Define by rule, with respect to state licensed
and certified appraisers, the continuing education requirements for the renewal
of licenses or certificates that satisfy the statutory requirements provided in
this chapter.
9.Periodically review the requirements for the
development and communication of appraisals provided in this chapter and adopt
rules explaining and interpreting the requirements.
10.Define and explain by rule each stage and step
associated with the administrative procedures for the disciplinary process
pursuant to this chapter, including:
(a)Prescribing minimum criteria for accepting a
complaint against a registered trainee appraiser or a licensed or certified
appraiser. The superintendent may not consider a complaint for administrative
action if the complaint either:
(i)Relates to an appraisal that was completed more
than five years before the complaint was submitted to the superintendent or
more than two years after final disposition of any judicial proceeding in which
the appraisal was an issue, whichever period of time is greater.
(ii)Is filed against a person who is a staff person
of the department of financial institutions and the person is a licensed or
certified appraiser and the complaint is against the person's license or
certificate and relates to the person's performance of duties.This
item does not apply to a contract investigator who is under contract with the
department for the performance of an appraisal review as defined by the uniform
standards of professional appraisal practice. This item does not remove the
requirement that the staff person is
be subject to the ethics
rules section of the uniform standards of professional appraisal practice.
(b)Defining the process and procedures used in
investigating the allegations of the complaint.The superintendent
shall consolidate complaints that are filed within a six-month period of time
if the complaints are against the same appraiser, relate to the same appraisal
and property and are filed by an entity that is subject to the mandatory
reporting provisions of the DoddFrank Wall Street reform and consumer
protection act (P.L.111203; 124 Stat. 1376). Complaints that are
consolidated pursuant to this subdivision must be considered and adjudicated as
one complaint.
(c)Defining the process and procedures used in
hearings on the complaint, including a description of the rights of the
superintendent and any person who is alleged to have committed the violation.
(d)Establishing criteria to be used in determining
the appropriate actions for violations.
11.Communicate information that is useful to the
public and appraisers relating to actions for violations.
12.Issue decrees of censure, fix periods and terms
of probation and suspend and revoke licenses and certificates pursuant to the
disciplinary proceedings provided for in section 323631.
13.At least monthly transmit to the appraisal
subcommittee a roster listing individuals who have received a state certificate
or license in accordance with this chapter.
14.Report on the disposition of any matter referred
by the appraisal subcommittee or any other federal agency or instrumentality or
federally recognized entity reporting any action of a state licensed or state
certified appraiser that is contrary to this chapter.
15.Make a determination and finding if there exists
a scarcity of state certified or state licensed appraisers to perform
appraisals in connection with federally related transactions in this state and
issue resident temporary licenses and certificates pursuant to section 323626.
16.Transmit the national registry fee collected
pursuant to section 323607 to the appraisal subcommittee.
17.Establish the fees in accordance with section 323607.
18.Receive
applications for state licenses and certificates.
19.Maintain
a registry of the names and addresses of people who are registered, licensed or
certified under this chapter.
20.Retain
records and all application materials submitted to the superintendent.
21.Publish
on the department's website a current list of supervisory appraisers and
registered trainee appraisers.
18.22.Perform
such other functions and duties as may be necessary to carry out this chapter.
C.The superintendent may accept and spend federal
monies and grants, gifts, contributions and devises from any public or private
source to assist in carrying out the purposes of this chapter. These monies do
not revert to the state general fund at the end of the fiscal year.
D.The board superintendent may impose a
civil penalty pursuant to section 323632. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Section 32-3606,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.5.Section 32-3607, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3607.Fees; use of credit cards
A.The board superintendent shall charge
and collect fees that are sufficient to fund the activities necessary to carry
out this chapter.These include:
1.An application fee for licensure or certification
of not more than four hundred dollars.
2.An application fee for a resident temporary
license or certificate of not more than four hundred dollars.
3.An examination fee in an amount to be determined
by the board superintendent.
4.A fee for renewal of a license, certificate or
resident temporary license or certificate of not more than four hundred twentyfive
dollars.
5.A delinquent renewal fee in addition to the
renewal fee of not more than twentyfive dollars.
6.A twoyear national registry fee of not to exceed
the actual cost of twice the current annual national registry fee.
7.A nonresident temporary licensure or
certification fee of not more than one hundred fifty dollars.
8.A course approval fee of not more than five
hundred dollars.
9.An application fee to be a registered trainee
appraiser in an amount to be determined by the board
superintendent.
B.If the appraisal subcommittee raises the national
registry fee during the second year of a biennial license or certificate, state
licensed and state certified appraisers shall pay the additional national
registry fee on demand by the board superintendent.Failure
to pay the additional fee within thirty days of notice by the board
superintendent subjects the license or certificate holder to a
penalty of twice the amount owed but not to exceed twenty
dollars.The board superintendent shall not renew
a license or certificate until all outstanding obligations of the license or
certificate holder are paid.
C.Pursuant to section 35142, subsection I J, the board superintendent may accept a
credit card or debit card for the payment of fees established by this
section.The board superintendent may impose a
convenience fee for payment made pursuant to this subsection in an amount to be
determined by the board superintendent. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Repeal; transfer of monies
A.Section 32-3608,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
B.All unexpended and unencumbered monies remaining
in the board of appraisal fund established by section 32-3608, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as repealed by subsection A of this section, are transferred to the
state general fund on the effective date of this section.
Sec.7.Section 32-3609, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3609.Confidential records
Except as otherwise provided by law, the following records are
confidential:
1.Questions contained in any examination
administered by or for the board superintendent or in any
examination submitted to the board superintendent for course
approval.
2.Questions asked and the answers of individual
examinees, except that the board superintendent shall provide
the grades of each examinee for public inspection and copying.
3.Appraisal reports or appraisal reviews and
supporting documentation deemed confidential under the uniform standards of
professional appraisal practice edition adopted by the board
superintendent.
4.All documents associated with a complaint until the complaint is resolved as prescribed by section 6129.
END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-3610, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3610.Uniform standards of professional appraisal practice;
state standards; exception
The uniform standards of professional appraisal practice as
published by the appraisal standards board are the standards for the appraisal
practice in this state unless the board superintendent objects. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 32-3611, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3611.Registration, licensure and certification process
A.Applications for original registration, licensure
or certification, renewals and examinations shall be made in writing to the executive director superintendent on forms approved by the board superintendent.
B.Appropriate fees, as fixed by the board
superintendent pursuant to section 323607, shall accompany
all applications for original registration, licensure or certification, renewal
and examination.
C.At the time of filing an application for
registration, licensure or certification, each applicant shall sign a pledge to
comply with the standards set forth in this chapter and shall state that the
applicant understands the types of misconduct for which disciplinary
proceedings may be initiated against a registered trainee appraiser or a state
licensed or state certified appraiser, as set forth in this chapter.
D.Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
executive director superintendent shall require
such other proof and request such documents, through the application or
otherwise, as the board superintendent deems necessary
for the interests of the public and to verify the honesty, truthfulness,
reputation and competency of the applicant and shall require that the applicant
for registration, licensure or certification:
1.Be at least eighteen years of age and a citizen
of the United States or a qualified alien as defined in 8 United States Code
section 1641.
2.Not have had a license or certificate denied
pursuant to this chapter within one year immediately preceding the application.
3.Not have had a license or certificate revoked
pursuant to this chapter within five years immediately preceding the
application.
4.State whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction in this or any other state of a
felony or of forgery, theft, extortion or conspiracy to defraud or any other
crime involving dishonesty or moral turpitude.
E.Applications for registration, licensure or
certification by persons who are charged or under indictment for fraud
involving appraisal of real property may be denied pending final disposition of
the charge or indictment. On final disposition, the board
superintendent shall review the proceedings and act on the
application. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 32-3613, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3613.Application and qualification requirements for issuance of
license
A.An application for licensing and examination
shall be made on forms as prescribed by the board
superintendent and be accompanied
by the required fees.
B.Those
Persons filing for licensing shall meet the minimum criteria for licensing
established by the board superintendent under section
323605, subsection B, paragraph 3.
C.No
A person may not be a state licensed
appraiser unless the person has achieved a passing grade on the national
examination approved by the appraiser qualifications board. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 32-3614, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3614.Application and qualification requirements for
certification
A.An application for certification and examination
shall be made on forms prescribed by the board superintendent and be accompanied by the required
fees.
B.Those
Persons filing for certification shall meet the minimum criteria for
certification established by the board superintendent under section
323605, subsection B, paragraph 2 and section 323615.
C.No A person
may not be a state
certified real estate appraiser unless the person has achieved a passing grade
on the national examination approved by the appraiser qualifications board.
D.Persons presenting
evidence showing successful completion of the requirements of this section
shall be recognized as having met the qualifications as a state certified real
estate appraiser. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 32-3614.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3614.01.Application for registered trainee appraiser certificates
An application for a registered trainee appraiser certificate
shall be made on a form prescribed by the board superintendent
and be accompanied by the
fees prescribed by section 323607. An applicant must complete education
requirements as outlined by the appraiser qualifications board.The
applicant must submit proof that the applicant has successfully passed the
required courses that are specifically oriented to the requirements and
responsibilities of supervisory appraisers and trainee appraisers and that
comply with the specifications established by the appraiser qualifications
board. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 32-3614.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3614.02.Application for supervisory appraiser designation
An application for a supervisory appraiser designation shall be
made on a form prescribed by the board superintendent. The applicant
must submit proof of successful completion of a course that is specifically
oriented to the requirements and responsibilities of supervisory appraisers and
trainee appraisers and that complies with the specifications established by the
appraiser qualifications board. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 32-3615, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3615.Experience requirement for licensure or certification
A.Each applicant for licensure or certification
shall have experience that was acquired within ten years immediately preceding
the filing of the application for licensure or certification.
B.Each applicant for licensure or certification
shall furnish under oath a detailed listing of the real estate or other appraisal
reports, review reports or filed memoranda for each year for which experience
is claimed by the applicant.On request, the applicant shall make
available to the board superintendent for examination
copies of appraisal reports which
that the applicant has
prepared in the course of the applicant's appraisal experience. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 32-3617, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3617.Nonresident temporary licensure or certification
A.Every applicant for nonresident temporary
licensure or certification under this chapter who is not a resident of this
state shall submit, with the application for nonresident temporary licensure or
certification, an irrevocable consent that service of process on the applicant
may be made by delivery of the process to the secretary of state if, in an
action against the applicant in a court of this state arising out of the
applicant's activities as a nonresident temporary state licensed or state
certified appraiser, the plaintiff cannot effect, in the exercise of due
diligence, personal service on the applicant.
B.A nonresident of this state who has complied with
subsection A of this section may obtain a nonresident temporary license or
certificate as a nonresident temporary state licensed or state certified
appraiser by conforming to all of the requirements of this chapter relating to
state licensed or state certified appraisers.
C.A nonresident of this state who is licensed or
certified in another state is entitled to nonresident temporary licensure or
certification from by the board
superintendent, which shall
be is valid
until the completion of each appraisal assignment but not for a period of more
than one year from the date of issuance, if:
1.The nonresident appraiser's business in this
state is of a temporary nature.
2.The nonresident appraiser applies with the board superintendent on forms prepared prescribed by the board superintendent.
3.The nonresident appraiser pays the nonresident
temporary licensure or certification fee required by the board
superintendent.
D.The board superintendent shall adopt
rules in furtherance of this section to avoid the abuse of the temporary practice
rights in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 32-3618, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3618.Reciprocity
Reciprocity shall be granted to an appraiser if all of the
following conditions apply:
1.The appraiser holds a credential from a state
that is in compliance with 12 United States Code sections 3310, 3332, 3333,
3335, 3338, 3339, 3341, 3342, 3345, 3346, 3347, 3348, 3350, 3351, 3353, 3354
and 3355.
2.The credential requirements for the state
described in paragraph 1 of this section meet or exceed those of this state.
3.The appraiser has completed an application for
licensure or certification on a form as prescribed by the board
superintendent and submitted the fees prescribed pursuant to
section 323607. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 32-3619, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3619.Renewal of license or certificate; fees 
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section and
in section 324301, to renew a registration certificate as a registered
trainee appraiser or a license or certificate as a state licensed or state
certified appraiser, the holder of a current, valid license or certificate
shall make an application apply with and pay the
prescribed fee to the board superintendent not earlier
than ninety days nor later than thirty days before the expiration date of the license or
certificate then held expires. With the application
for renewal, the registered trainee appraiser or the state licensed or state
certified appraiser shall present evidence in the form prescribed by the board superintendent of having completed the
continuing education requirements for renewal specified in section 323625.

B.The board superintendent may accept a
renewal application after the expiration date and within ninety days of the
date of expiration but shall assess a delinquent renewal fee in addition to the
renewal fee.
C.An appraiser or registered trainee appraiser who
fails to seek renewal within the time period specified in subsection A or B of
this section must reapply for licensure or certification and meet all of the
requirements of this chapter.
D.An appraiser or registered trainee appraiser
shall not engage in, advertise or purport to engage in real estate appraisal
activity in this state after a license or certificate has expired and before
the renewal of the expired license or certificate except as provided in section
411092.11.END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 32-3620, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3620.Basis for denial of a license or certificate
A.The board superintendent may deny the
initial issuance or renewal of a license or certificate as a registered trainee
appraiser, a supervisory appraiser or a state licensed or state certified
appraiser to an applicant who has been convicted of a felony or on any of the
grounds prescribed in this chapter.
B.To assist in determining whether grounds exist to
deny the initial issuance or renewal of a license or certificate to an
applicant, the board superintendent shall require
the applicant to obtain apply for a valid fingerprint
clearance card issued pursuant to section 411758.03.
C.A person who is denied the issuance of a license
or certificate may request, and if requested shall receive, a hearing in
accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 32-3621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3621.Addresses; telephone numbers; e-mail addresses;
notification of change
A.Each registered trainee appraiser or state
licensed or state certified appraiser shall advise the board
superintendent of the address of the person's principal place of
business and all other addresses at which the person is currently engaged in
the business of preparing real property appraisal reports.
B.Every registered trainee appraiser or state
licensed or state certified appraiser shall notify the board
superintendent of the person's current residence
address.Residence addresses on file with the board
superintendent are exempt from disclosure as public records.
C.Every registered trainee appraiser or state
licensed or state certified appraiser shall provide the person's email
address if one exists and a daytime telephone number to the board
superintendent.
D.If a registered trainee appraiser or a state
licensed or state certified appraiser changes the person's place of business or
residence, email address or daytime telephone number, the person shall
give the board superintendent written
notification of the change within ten days after the change. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 32-3622, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3622.Licenses and certificates
A.A license or certificate issued under this
chapter shall be signed on behalf of the board superintendent and shall bear
the license or certificate number assigned by the board
superintendent.
B.Each state licensed or state certified appraiser
shall place the appraiser's license or certificate number adjacent to or
immediately below the title "state licensed appraiser" or "state
certified appraiser",
and the number shall be included in an appraisal report or in a contract or
other instrument used by the license or certificate holder in conducting
appraisal activities. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 32-3625, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3625.Continuing education
A.As a prerequisite to renewal of a license or
certificate, a state registered trainee appraiser or a licensed or state
certified appraiser shall present evidence satisfactory to the board
superintendent of having met the continuing education
requirements of either subsection B or C of this section.
B.The basic continuing education requirement for
renewal of a license or certificate is the completion by the applicant, during
the immediately preceding term of the license or certificate, of courses or
seminars that are approved by the board superintendent.
C.An applicant for reregistering, relicensing or
recertification may satisfy all or part of the continuing education
requirements by presenting evidence of the following, which shall be approved
by the board superintendent:
1.Completion of an education program of study
determined by the board superintendent to be equivalent,
for continuing education purposes, to courses approved by the board
superintendent pursuant to subsection B of this section.
2.Participation
other than as a student in educational processes and programs that are approved
by the board superintendent and that relate to appropriate
appraisal theory, practices or techniques, including teaching, program
development and preparation of textbooks, monographs, articles and other
instructional materials, not to exceed fifty per cent percent of an applicant's continuing education requirements
and not for the same course in consecutive renewal periods.
D.The board superintendent shall adopt
rules to assure ensure that persons renewing their licenses or certificates
a person who renews the person's
license or certificate as a
state licensed or state certified appraisers follow appraiser follows practices and techniques
that provide a high degree of service and protection to those members of the public with whom they deal the person deals in the professional relationship
under the authority of the license or certificate. The rules shall include the
following:
1.Policies and procedures for obtaining board the superintendent's approval of courses and
instruction pursuant to subsection B of this section.
2.Standards, policies and procedures to be applied
by the board superintendent in evaluating an applicant's
claims of equivalency in accordance with subsectionC of this section.
3.Standards, monitoring methods and systems for
recording attendance to be employed by course sponsors as a prerequisite to board the superintendent's approval of courses for
credit.
E.In adopting rules pursuant to subsection D,
paragraph 1 of this section, the board superintendent shall give
consideration to courses of instruction, seminars and other appropriate
appraisal educational courses or programs previously or hereafter developed by
or under the auspices of professional appraisal organizations and utilized used by those associations for purposes of
designation, or
indicating compliance with the continuing education requirements of such
organizations.No
A person who offers these
courses may not discriminate
in the opportunity to participate in these courses on the basis of membership
or nonmembership in an appraisal organization.
F.No
An amendment or repeal of
a rule adopted by the board superintendent pursuant to
this section may operate to
not deprive a state
registered trainee appraiser or a state licensed or state certified appraiser
of credit toward renewal of a license or certificate for any course of
instruction either completed by
that the applicant either completed or enrolled in
by the applicant before the
amendment or repeal of the rule that would have qualified for continuing
education credit under the rule
as it the rule existed before the repeal or
amendment.
G.A license or certificate as a state registered
trainee appraiser or a state licensed or state certified appraiser that has
been suspended as a result of disciplinary action by the board
superintendent shall not be reinstated unless the applicant
presents evidence of completion of the continuing education required by this
chapter.
H.A license or certificate that has been revoked by
the board superintendent shall not be reinstated unless
the applicant successfully completes the appropriate requirements of the
appraisal qualifications board, including education and passage of the current
national examination. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 32-3626, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3626.Scarcity determination; resident temporary licenses and
certificates; exemption
A.No later than November 1 of each year, the board superintendent shall determine and make a
finding whether there is a scarcity of state certified or state licensed
appraisers in an area within the state to perform appraisals in federally
related transactions.
B.In determining whether a scarcity exists, the board superintendent shall follow procedures in
accordance with the provisions governing scarcity in 12 United States Code
section 3348 and regulations adopted pursuant to that section as of September
30, 1992.
C.If the board superintendent makes a finding
of scarcity, within fifteen days after the finding, the board
superintendent shall apply to the appropriate federal agency for
a temporary waiver of the state certification or licensing requirements.
D.If a waiver request has been approved by the
federal agency authorized to issue waivers, the board
superintendent may thereafter
issue resident temporary licenses or certificates to applicants consistent with
the reduction in application requirements of this chapter for licenses and
certificates as authorized by the waiver. A resident temporary license or
certificate shall be is subject to all provisions of
this chapter that are not
inconsistent with the provisions of the waiver.
E.A person obtaining a resident temporary license
or certificate under this section is
required to shall comply
with all of the provisions
of this chapter except for those provisions
of this chapter for which a temporary waiver has been approved
and shall indicate on all appraisals performed by the person that the appraisal
is not an appraisal done by
a state certified or state licensed appraiser and that the person performing the appraisal is a
resident temporary license or certificate holder. A person holding a resident
temporary license or certificate may perform appraisals only in areas within
the state where it has been determined by
the board superintendent has determined that a scarcity
exists.
F.The board superintendent is exempt from
title 41, chapter 6, article 10 in making the determination and finding of scarcity and in issuing
resident temporary licenses and certificates in accordance with the waiver in under subsection D of this section and section
323605, subsection B, paragraph 14 15. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 32-3627, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3627.Inactive license or certificate status; reactivation
application; renewal application and fee; continuing education
A.Any license or certificate holder may request
that the license or certificate be placed on inactive status by filing with the
board superintendent an application that includes
all of the following:
1.The license or certificate holder's name.
2.The license or certificate number.
3.A request for inactive status.
B.The period a license or certificate is on
inactive status under this section may not exceed two years.
C.A license or certificate holder who is on
inactive status shall not do either of the following:
1.Represent that the license or certificate holder
is an active appraiser licensed or certified in this state.
2.Perform real estate appraisals or appraisal
reviews on real estate in this state.
D.A license or certificate holder who is on inactive status under this section
must file with the board superintendent an application
for reactivation of the license or certificate before resuming real estate
appraisal activity.
E.To return to active status, an the inactive
license or certificate holder shall do both of the following:
1.File with the board
superintendent an application for reactivation of the license or
certificate.
2.Provide evidence of completion of the required
continuing education that the license or certificate holder would have been
required to meet during the period when the license or certificate holder's
license or certificate was on inactive status.
F.If the holder of an inactive license or
certificate under this section does not file an application for reactivation
within a two year twoyear period, that
person must reapply for licensure or certification pursuant to the requirements
of this chapter.
G.A license or certificate holder who is on
inactive status pursuant to this section remains on inactive status until the board superintendent approves the application for
reactivation of the license or certificate.
H.The board superintendent may take
disciplinary or remedial action against a license or certificate holder who is
on inactive status pursuant to this section.
I.A license or certificate holder who places the
holder's license or certificate on inactive status must pay the renewal fee and
complete an application for renewal as prescribed in section 323619. A The license or certificate holder on inactive
status is not required to provide evidence of completion of the continuing
education requirements until the application for reactivation is filed pursuant
to subsection E of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 32-3628, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3628.Inactive license or certificate status during military
duty; reactivation application; renewal application and fee; continuing
education
A.A license or certificate holder who is ordered to
active military duty with the United States armed forces may request that the
license or certificate be placed on inactive status by filing with the board superintendent an application that includes
all of the following:
1.The license or certificate holder's name.
2.The license or certificate number.
3.The date that the active military duty begins.
4.A request for inactive status.
B.The license or certificate is deemed to be on
inactive status while the license or certificate holder is on active military
duty, but the period of inactive status may not exceed three years.
C.A license or certificate holder who is on
inactive status pursuant to this section shall not do either of the following:
1.Represent that the holder is an active appraiser
licensed or certified in this state.
2.Perform real estate appraisals or appraisal
reviews on real estate in this state.
D.A license or certificate holder who is on inactive status must file with the board superintendent an application for
reactivation of the license or certificate within one hundred eighty days after
returning home from active military duty.
E.If the holder of an inactive license or
certificate timely files an application for reactivation of the license or
certificate, the license or certificate is returned to active status on the board's superintendent's approval of the application
for reactivation.The time
period for completion of license
or certificate holder shall complete the continuing education
requirements that the license or
certificate holder would otherwise have been required to meet during the period when
the license or certificate was on inactive status is extended for a period not to exceed within ninety days after the person's return from active
military duty.The license or certificate holder must submit proof
of completion of any continuing education requirements to the board
superintendent no later than one hundred twenty days after
completion.
F.If the holder of an inactive license or
certificate under this section does not make
a timely application
apply for reactivation as
required by subsection D of this section, the holder must reapply for licensure
or certification meeting all of the requirements of this chapter.
G.A license or certificate holder who is on
inactive status pursuant to this section remains on inactive status until the board superintendent approves the application for
reactivation of the license or certificate.
H.The holder of an inactive license or certificate
applying for reactivation of the license or certificate under this section
shall include with the application for reactivation a copy of the documentation
from the armed forces showing the period of time that the holder of the
inactive license or certificate was on active military duty.
I.Any license or certificate holder who places the
holder's license or certificate on inactive status under this section must pay
the renewal fee prescribed in section 323607 and complete an application
for renewal pursuant to section 323619. A license or certificate holder
on inactive status pursuant to this section who files an application for
reactivation is required to
shall provide evidence of
completion of the continuing education requirements pursuant to subsection E of
this section.
J.For the purposes of this section, active military
duty does not include service persons performing weekend drill and annual
training. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 32-3631, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3631.Disciplinary proceedings
A.The rights of an applicant or holder under a
license or certificate as a registered trainee appraiser or a state licensed or
state certified appraiser may be revoked or suspended, or the holder of the
license or certificate may otherwise be disciplined, including being placed on
probation as prescribed by rule, in accordance with this chapter on any of the
grounds set forth in this section. The board superintendent may investigate
the actions of a registered trainee appraiser or a state licensed or state
certified appraiser in this state or in any other state and may revoke or
suspend the rights of a license or certificate holder or otherwise discipline a
registered trainee appraiser or a state licensed or state certified appraiser
for any of the following acts or omissions:
1.Procuring or attempting to procure a license or
certificate pursuant to this chapter by knowingly making a false statement,
submitting false information, refusing to provide complete information in
response to a question in an application for a license or certificate or
committing any form of fraud or misrepresentation.
2.Failing to meet the minimum qualifications
established by this chapter.
3.Paying or offering to pay money or other
considerations other than as provided by this chapter to any member or employee
of the board department to procure a license or
certificate under this chapter.
4.A conviction Being convicted, including a conviction based on a plea of
guilty, of a crime that is substantially related to the qualifications,
functions and duties of a person developing appraisals and communicating
appraisals to others, or a conviction for
being convicted of any
felony or any crime involving moral turpitude.
5.Committing
an act or omission involving dishonesty, fraud or
misrepresentation with the intent to substantially benefit the license or
certificate holder or another person or with the intent to substantially injure
another person.
6.Violation
of Violating any
of the standards of the development or communication of appraisals as provided
in this chapter.
7.Negligence
or incompetence by the Being
negligent or incompetent as a state licensed or state certified
appraiser in developing an appraisal, in preparing an appraisal report or in
communicating an appraisal.
8.Wilfully disregarding or violating any of the provisions of this chapter
or a board an order or the rules of the board rule of the superintendent for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
9.Accepting an appraisal assignment if the
employment itself is contingent on the appraiser reporting a predetermined
estimate, analysis or opinion or if the fee to be paid is contingent on the
opinion, conclusion or value reached or on the consequences resulting from the
appraisal assignment.
10.Violating the confidential nature of any records
to which the registered trainee appraiser or the state licensed or state
certified appraiser gains access through employment or engagement as a
registered trainee appraiser or an appraiser.
11.Entry of
Having a final civil
judgment entered against
the person on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation or deceit in the making of
any appraisal.
B.In a disciplinary proceeding based on a civil
judgment, a registered trainee appraiser or state licensed or state certified
appraiser shall be afforded an
opportunity to may present
matters in mitigation and extenuation.
C.The board
superintendent may issue
subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, records,
documents and other evidence necessary and relevant to an investigation or
hearing.
D.The lapsing or suspension of a license or
certificate by operation of law or by an
order or decision of the board superintendent or a court of
law, or the voluntary surrender of a license or certificate by a license or
certificate holder, shall not deprive the board superintendent
of jurisdiction to do any
either of the following
within twenty-four months after the expiration of the license or
certificate pursuant to section 323616:
1.Proceed with any investigation of or action or
disciplinary proceeding against the license or certificate holder.
2.Render a decision suspending or revoking the
license or certificate or denying the renewal or right of renewal of the
license or certificate. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section
32-3632, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3632.Hearing and judicial review; civil penalties; costs and
fees; appeal
A.The hearing on the charges shall be at a time and
place prescribed by the board superintendent and shall be in
accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
B.If the board superintendent determines that
a state licensed or state certified appraiser is in violation of this chapter, it the superintendent shall prepare a finding of
fact and take disciplinary or remedial action and may impose a civil penalty
not to exceed three thousand dollars per complaint filed with the board superintendent pursuant to this chapter. All
civil penalties collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the state general fund.
C.If a case proceeds to a formal hearing before
either the board superintendent or the office of administrative hearings
an administrative law judge, both
of the following apply:
1.If the board department sustains its burden
of proof and prevails on the merits of the case, the board
department may collect from the respondent applicant, registered
trainee appraiser, appraiser or property tax agent the board's
department's costs and expenses associated with the formal hearing,
including reasonable attorney fees, expert testimony and preparation fees,
investigative costs and expenses and costs incurred relating to the office of
administrative hearings and court reporters. All monies collected pursuant to
this paragraph shall be deposited,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the board of appraisal
fund established by section 323608. Notwithstanding section 35143.01,
these monies may be spent without legislative appropriation.
2.If the board department does not sustain
its burden of proof and the respondent applicant, registered trainee appraiser,
appraiser or property tax agent prevails on the merits of the case, the
respondent applicant, registered trainee appraiser, appraiser or property tax
agent may collect from the board department fees and other
costs associated with the formal hearing.
D.Except as provided in section 411092.08,
subsection H, any final decision or order of the board
superintendent may be appealed to the superior court pursuant to
title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 32-3635, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3635.Standards of practice; unprofessional conduct
A.A registered trainee appraiser or a state
licensed or state certified appraiser shall comply with the standards of
professional appraisal practice adopted by the board
superintendent.
B.An appraisal or appraisal report shall not be
issued by a real estate appraiser unless it meets the appraisal standards
established by this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to this chapter.
C.An appraisal review report shall clearly indicate
the nature of the review process undertaken and shall separate the review
function from any other functions.
D.All federally related appraisals shall be in
writing.
E.Failure to pay board-imposed the fees and expenses authorized by section
323632, subsection C is unprofessional conduct as defined by uniform standards
of professional appraisal practice. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 32-3637, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3637.Retention of records; definition
A.A state licensed or state certified appraiser
shall retain a work file for at least five years after preparation of the work
file or at least two years after final disposition of any judicial proceeding
in which the appraiser provided testimony related to the work file, whichever
period of time is greater.
B.A state licensed or state certified appraiser
shall do either of the following:
1.Have custody of the appraiser's work file.
2.Make appropriate work file retention, access and
retrieval arrangements with the party having custody of the work file.
C.The board superintendent may inspect all
records required to be maintained under this chapter by the state licensed or
state certified appraiser on reasonable notice to the appraiser.
D.For the purposes of this section, "work
file" includes documentation that is necessary to support an appraiser's
analyses, opinions and conclusions and that demonstrates compliance with the
uniform standards of professional appraisal practice. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 32-3638, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3638.Violation; classification
Any person who performs a real estate appraisal or appraisal
review, who is not licensed or certified under this chapter and who knowingly
assumes or uses any title, designation or abbreviation likely to create the
impression of licensure or certification by this state or any person who knowingly
provides false or fraudulent information to the board
superintendent is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 32-3639, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3639.Damages; injunctive relief
If the board superintendent has a
reasonable basis to believe, after investigation, that any person is violating
any provision of this chapter, the board superintendent may bring an
action in superior court for appropriate injunctive or other equitable relief,
damages sustained and taxable costs and reasonable attorney fees. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Section 32-3651, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3651.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Analysis" means the review of a
property valuation or legal classification established by a county assessor in
the representation of a person in appealing the property valuation or legal classification to the
county assessor.
2."Appraisal" means the development of
real or personal property value
valuation or legal
classification opinions or conclusions.
3."Board"
means the state board of appraisal.
4.3."Property
tax agent" means an individual who is designated by a person or is an
employee of an entity designated as an agent pursuant to section 4216001,
who acts on behalf of a person who owns, controls or possesses property valued
by a county assessor or the department of revenue and who receives a fee for
the analysis of any matter relating to the review of the valuation or legal
classification of the person's property before the assessor, the county or
state board of equalization or the department of revenue.Property
tax agent does not include a person who is admitted to practice law in this
state, an employee of the person owning, controlling or possessing the property
or an employee of an entity designated pursuant to section 4216001, if
such employee is performing a secretarial, clerical or administrative support
function. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 32-3652, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3652.Registration; renewal; fees
A.An individual who wishes to act as a property tax
agent shall apply for registration by submitting to the board
superintendent a completed application form prescribed by the board superintendent with the initial registration
fee.The applicant shall also file with the board
superintendent an affidavit stating whether the applicant has
been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor involving dishonesty or moral
turpitude in this or any other state within the last ten years.The board superintendent may review the affidavit and
issue or deny the registration based on its findings.
B.Except as provided in section 32-4301,
registration is valid for two years.An individual may renew a
registration by submitting to the board superintendent a renewal form
prescribed by the board superintendent with the
renewal fee on or before the date the registration expires.
C.An appraiser WHO IS licensed or certified pursuant to this
chapter may register and renew registration as a property tax agent without
paying the fee prescribed by this section.
D.The board superintendent shall issue a
certificate of registration to an individual, if the individual complies with this
section and the individual
is not prohibited from registering pursuant to section 323654.
E.A person shall not act as a property tax agent if
the person is not registered pursuant to this section.
F.The board superintendent shall collect
from each individual a fee of:
1.Two hundred dollars for an initial registration.
2.One hundred dollars for a renewal.
3.Five dollars for a duplicate registration
certificate.
G.The board
shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, monies
collected pursuant to subsection F of this section in the board of appraisal
fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 32-3653, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3653.Property tax agent conduct
A property tax agent:
1.Shall not knowingly misrepresent any information
or act in a fraudulent manner.
2.Shall not prepare documents or provide evidence
in a property valuation or legal classification appeal unless the agent is
authorized by the property owner to do so and any required agency authorization
form has been filed.
3.Shall not knowingly submit false or erroneous
information in a property valuation or legal classification appeal.
4.Shall use appraisal standards and methods that
are adopted by the board superintendent when the agent
submits appraisal information in a property valuation or legal classification
appeal. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section 32-3654, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3654.Disciplinary actions
A.On the complaint of any person or on its the superintendent's own motion, the board superintendent shall investigate any
suspected violation of this article by a property tax agent. If the board superintendent finds a violation, it the
superintendent may issue a letter of concern.
B.If the board superintendent finds that the
property tax agent committed any of the following violations, it the
superintendent shall revoke or suspend the agent's registration:
1.Secured registration by fraud or deceit.
2.Committed an act or is responsible for an
omission involving fraud or knowing misrepresentation with the intent to obtain
a benefit.
3.Knowingly violated section 323653.
C.The board superintendent shall:
1.Suspend the agent's registration for not less
than six months on the first finding of a violation pursuant to subsection B of
this section.
2.Suspend the agent's registration for not less
than twelve months on the second finding of a violation pursuant to subsection
B of this section.
3.Revoke the agent's registration on a third or
subsequent finding of a violation pursuant to subsection B of this section.
D.The board superintendent shall not
impose discipline until the agent has been provided an opportunity for a
hearing before the board superintendent pursuant to
title 41, chapter 6, article 10. The board superintendent shall notify
the agent of the charges and the date and time of the hearing. The notice may
be personally served or sent by certified mail to the agent's last known
address.Except as provided in section 411092.08, subsection
H, the final decision of the board superintendent is subject to
judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6.
E.The board superintendent shall not renew
an agent's registration during the time the registration is suspended or
revoked. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 32-3655, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3655.Rules
The board superintendent may adopt rules
for the purpose of administering this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 32-3662, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3662.Registration
A.A person shall not directly or indirectly engage
or attempt to engage in business as an appraisal management company, directly
or indirectly perform or attempt to perform appraisal management services or
advertise or hold itself out as engaging in or conducting business as an
appraisal management company without first obtaining a registration issued by
the board superintendent pursuant to this article,
regardless of the entity's use of appraisal management company, mortgage
technology company or any other name.
B.A person who wishes to be registered as an
appraisal management company in this state must file a written application with
the board superintendent on a form prepared and
furnished by the board superintendent and pay a fee
in an amount to be determined by the board superintendent. The
registration required by subsection A of
this section shall include:
1.The name, residence address, business address and
telephone number of the applicant and the location of each principal office and
branch office at which the appraisal management company will conduct business
in this state.
2.The name under which the applicant will conduct
business as an appraisal management company.
3.The name, residence address, business address and
telephone number of each person who will have an interest in the appraisal
management company as a principal, partner, officer, director or trustee,
specifying the capacity and title of each person.
4.If the person seeking registration is a
corporation that is not domiciled in this state, the name and contact information
for the company's agent for service of process in this state.
5.A certification that the person seeking
registration has a system and process in place to verify that a person being
added to the appraiser panel for the appraisal management company's appraisal
management services in this state holds a license or certification in good
standing in this state.
6.A certification that the person seeking
registration has a system in place to review the work of all independent
appraisers that are performing real property appraisal services for the
appraisal management company on a periodic basis to confirm that the real
property appraisal services are being conducted in accordance with uniform
standards of professional appraisal practice.
7.A certification that the person maintains a
detailed record of each service request that it receives and the independent
appraiser that performs the real property appraisal services for the appraisal
management company.
8.A certification that the person seeking registration
has a system in place to train those who select individual appraisers for real
property appraisal services
in this state, to
ensure that the selectors have appropriate training in placing appraisal
assignments.
9.An irrevocable consent to service of process.
10.Any other information required by the board superintendent deemed reasonable in scope and
content and necessary for the implementation and administration of this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 32-3664, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3664.Registration forms
An applicant for initial and renewal registration as an
appraisal management company shall submit to the board
superintendent an application on a form prescribed by the board superintendent. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 32-3666, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3666.Consent to service of process
Each entity applying for registration as an appraisal
management company shall complete and execute an irrevocable consent to service
of process form as prescribed by the board superintendent. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Section 32-3667, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3667.Fee; bond
A.The board superintendent shall establish
the fee for appraisal management company registration by rule.
B.The appraisal management company is required to shall show proof of a surety bond of at least
twenty thousand dollars but not more than fifty thousand dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.40.Section 32-3668, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3668.Owner requirements
A.An appraisal management company applying for
registration may not be owned by a person or have any principal of the company
who has had any financial, real estate or mortgage lending industry license or
certificate refused, denied, canceled, revoked or voluntarily surrendered in
this state or in any other state. This requirement may be waived by appeal and
at the discretion of the board superintendent.
B.Each person that owns, is an officer of or has a
financial interest in an appraisal management company in this state shall:
1.Be of good moral character.
2.Obtain a valid fingerprint clearance card issued
pursuant to section 411758.03.
3.Certify to the board
superintendent that the person has never had any financial, real
estate or mortgage lending industry license or certificate refused, denied,
canceled, revoked or voluntarily surrendered in this state or in any other
state. This requirement may be waived by appeal and at the discretion of the board superintendent. END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Section 32-3669, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3669.Controlling person
A.Each appraisal management company applying to the
board superintendent for registration in this state
shall designate one controlling person that
who will be the main
contact for all communication between the board superintendent
and the appraisal management company.
B.To serve as a controlling person of an appraisal
management company, a person shall:
1.Certify to the board
superintendent that the person has never had any financial, real
estate or mortgage lending industry license or certificate issued by this
state, or any other state, refused, denied, canceled, revoked or voluntarily
surrendered. This requirement may be waived by appeal and at the discretion of
the board superintendent.
2.Be of good moral character.
3.Obtain a valid fingerprint clearance card issued
pursuant to section 411758.03. END_STATUTE
Sec.42.Section 32-3671, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3671.Agreements with independent appraisers; limitations
An appraisal management company registered in this state
pursuant to this article may not enter into contracts or agreements with an
independent appraiser for the performance of real property appraisal services
in this state unless that person is licensed or certified in good standing with
the board superintendent. END_STATUTE
Sec.43.Section 32-3672, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3672.Certification on registration renewal
A.Each
appraisal management company seeking to
be registered registration
renewal in this state shall certify to the board on renewal superintendent on a form prescribed by the board superintendent all of the following:
1.That
the appraisal management company has a system and process in place to verify
that a person being added to the appraiser panel of the appraisal management
company holds a license or certificate in good standing in this state pursuant
to the board superintendent.
B.2.Each appraisal management company seeking to be registered in
this state shall certify to the board on renewal That it the appraisal management company has a system
in place to review the quality of appraisals of all independent appraisers that
are performing real property appraisal services for the appraisal management
company on a periodic basis to confirm that the real property appraisal
services are being conducted in accordance with uniform standards of
professional appraisal practice.
C.3.Each appraisal management company seeking to be registered
shall certify to the board on renewal That it the
appraisal management company maintains a detailed record of each
service request that it receives and the name of the independent appraiser that
performs the real property appraisal services for the appraisal management
company. An The appraisal management
company shall maintain a detailed record for the same time period that an
appraiser is required to maintain an appraisal record for the same real
property appraisal activity. 
D.4.Each appraisal management company seeking to be registered
shall certify to the board on renewal That it the
appraisal management company has a system in place to train those
who select individual appraisers for real property appraisal services in this
state, to ensure that
the selectors have appropriate training in placing appraisal assignments. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Section 32-3677, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3677.Adjudication of disputes
A.Except within the first sixty days after an
independent appraiser is first added to the appraiser panel of an appraisal
management company, an appraisal management company shall not remove an
appraiser from its appraiser panel, or otherwise refuse to assign requests for
real property appraisal services to an independent appraiser, without notifying
the appraiser in writing of the reasons for the appraiser being removed from
the appraiser panel of the appraisal management company.
B.An independent appraiser that is removed from the
appraiser panel of an appraisal management company for alleged illegal conduct,
a violation of the
uniform standards of professional appraisal practice or a violation of state licensing standards may
file a complaint with the board superintendent for a review of
the decision of the appraisal management company, except that in no case shall the board
superintendent may not make any determination regarding the
nature of the business relationship between the appraiser and the appraisal
management company that is unrelated to the actions specified in subsection A of this section.
C.If an independent appraiser files a complaint
against an appraisal management company pursuant to subsection B of this section, the board superintendent shall adjudicate the complaint
within a reasonable time.
D.If,
after an opportunity for
a hearing and review, the board superintendent determines that
an independent appraiser did not commit a violation of law, a violation of the
uniform standards of professional appraisal practice or a violation of state
licensing standards, the board superintendent shall order
that the appraiser be added to the appraiser panel of the appraisal management
company that was the subject of the complaint without prejudice.The
board superintendent shall furnish the appraisal
management company with all written documentation and investigation records
that support the board's superintendent's findings. END_STATUTE
Sec.45.Section 32-3678, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3678.Censure, suspension or revocation; civil penalty
The board superintendent may censure an
appraisal management company, conditionally or unconditionally suspend or
revoke any registration issued under this article or impose civil penalties not
to exceed fifteen thousand dollars per violation if, in the opinion of the board superintendent, an appraisal management
company is attempting to perform, has performed or has attempted to perform any
of the following acts:
1.Committing any act in violation of this article.
2.Violating any rule adopted by the board
superintendent in the interest of the public and consistent with
this article.
3.Knowingly making or causing to be made to the board superintendent any false representation of
material fact.
4.Suppressing or withholding from the board superintendent any information that the applicant appraisal management company possesses and
that, if submitted by the applicant appraisal management company,
would have rendered the applicant
appraisal management company ineligible
to be registered pursuant to rules adopted by the board
superintendent.
5.Violating the federal financial institutions
reform, recovery and enforcement act of 1989 (P.L. 101-73; 103 Stat. 183). END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 32-3679, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3679.Disciplinary hearings
A.The board superintendent may conduct
disciplinary proceedings in accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
B.Before censuring any registrant, or suspending or
revoking any registration, the board superintendent shall notify
the registrant in writing of any charges made at least fortyfive days
before the date set for the hearing and shall afford the registrant an
opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel.
C.The written notice shall be satisfied by personal
service on the controlling person of the registrant or the registrant's agent
for service of process in this state or by sending the notice by certified mail
to the controlling person of the registrant to the registrant's address on file
with the board superintendent.
D.The hearing shall be at a time and place
prescribed by the board superintendent. Any
reasonable request for a delay of a hearing shall not exceed ninety days.
E.The board superintendent may make
findings of fact and shall deliver or mail the findings to the registrant
charged with a violation of this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.47.Section 32-3680, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3680.Rulemaking authority
The board superintendent shall adopt
rules that are reasonably necessary to implement, administer and enforce this
article, including rules for obtaining copies of appraisals and other documents
necessary to audit compliance with this article and rules requiring a surety
bond to be posted with each application. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Section 32-4301, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-4301.License, certificate or registration expiration; military
active duty; one hundred eighty day extension
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section, a
license, certificate or registration that
is issued pursuant to this title to any member of the Arizona
national guard or the United States armed forces reserves shall not expire
while the member is serving on federal active duty and shall be extended one
hundred eighty days after the member returns from federal active duty, provided
that the member, or the legal representative of the member, notifies the
license, certificate or registration issuing authority of the federal active
duty status of the member.A license, certificate or registration
issued pursuant to this title to any member serving in the regular component of
the United States armed forces shall be extended one hundred eighty days from
the date of expiration, provided that the member, or the legal representative
of the member, notifies the license, certificate or registration issuing
authority of the federal active duty status of the member.
B.A license, certificate or registration issued
pursuant to this title to any member of the Arizona national guard, the United
States armed forces reserves or the regular component of the United States
armed forces shall not expire and shall be extended one hundred eighty days
from the date the military member is able to perform activities necessary under
the license, certificate or registration if the member both:
1.Is released from active duty service.
2.Suffers an injury as a result of active duty
service that temporarily prevents the member from being able to perform
activities necessary under the license, certificate or registration.
C.If the license, certificate or registration is
renewed during the applicable extended time period after the member returns
from federal active duty, the member is responsible only for normal fees and
activities relating to renewal of the license, certificate or registration and
shall not be charged any additional costs such as late fees or delinquency
fees.
D.The member, or the legal representative of the
member, shall present to the authority issuing the license, certificate or
registration a copy of the member's official military orders, a redacted
military identification card or a written verification from the member's
commanding officer before the end of the applicable extended time period in
order to qualify for the extension.
E.This section does not apply to licenses issued
pursuant to chapter 10 of this title if a person other than the person who is a
member of the Arizona national guard, the United States armed forces reserves
or the regular component of the United States armed forces as described in
subsection A of this section is
authorized to renew the license.
F.A license or certificate issued pursuant to
chapter 36 of this title to any member of the Arizona national guard, the
United States armed forces reserves or the regular component of the United
States armed forces shall be placed in active status for ninety days after the
member returns from federal active duty, provided that the member, or the legal
representative of the member, notifies the state board of appraisal department of financial institutions of the
federal active duty status of the member. END_STATUTE
Sec.49.Section 41-619.51, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-619.51.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency" means the supreme court, the
department of economic security, the department of child safety, the department
of education, the department of health services, the department of juvenile
corrections, the department of emergency and military affairs, the department
of transportation, the state real estate department, the state board of appraisal department of financial institutions, the
Arizona game and fish department,
or the board of examiners
of nursing care institution administrators and assisted living facility
managers or the state board of dental
examiners.
2."Board"
means the board of fingerprinting.
3."Central
registry exception" means notification to the department of economic
security, the department of child safety or the department of health services,
as appropriate, pursuant to section 41619.57 that the person is not
disqualified because of a central registry check conducted pursuant to section
8804.
4."Expedited review" means an
examination, in accordance with board rule, of the documents an applicant
submits by the board or its hearing officer without the applicant being
present.
5."Good cause exception" means the
issuance of a fingerprint clearance card to an employee pursuant to section 41619.55.
6."Person" means a person who is required
to be fingerprinted pursuant to this article or who is subject to a central
registry check and any of the following:
(a)Section 8105.
(b)Section 8322.
(c)Section 8463.
(d)Section 8509.
(e)Section 8802.
(f)Section 8804.
(g)Section 15183.
(h)Section 15503.
(i)Section 15512.
(j)Section 15534.
(k)Section 15763.01.
(l)Section 15782.02.
(m)Section 151330.
(n)Section 151881.
(o)Section 17215.
(p)Section 283413.
(q)Section 321232.
(r)SEction
32-1284.
(s)Section 32-1297.01.
(r)(t)Section
322108.01.
(s)(u)Section
322123.
(t)(v)Section
322371.
(u)(w)Section
322372.
(v)(x)Section
323620.
(w)(y)Section
323668.
(x)(z)Section
323669.
(y)(aa)Section
36207.
(z)(bb)Section
36411.
(aa)(cc)Section
36425.03.
(bb)(dd)Section
36446.04.
(cc)(ee)Section
36594.01.
(dd)(ff)Section
36594.02.
(ee)(gg)Section
36882.
(ff)(hh)Section
36883.02.
(gg)(ii)Section
36897.01.
(hh)(jj)Section
36897.03.
(ii)(kk)Section
363008.
(jj)(ll)Section
41619.53.
(kk)(mm)Section
411964.
(ll)(nn)Section
411967.01.
(mm)(oo)Section
411968.
(nn)(pp)Section
411969.
(oo)(qq)Section
412814.
(pp)(rr)Section
46141, subsection A.
(qq)(ss)Section
46321. END_STATUTE
Sec.50.Section 41-1092, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrative law judge" means an
individual or an agency head, board or commission that sits as an
administrative law judge, that conducts administrative hearings in a contested
case or an appealable agency action and that makes decisions regarding the
contested case or appealable agency action.
2."Administrative law judge decision"
means the findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations or decisions
issued by an administrative law judge.
3."Appealable agency action" means an
action that determines the legal rights, duties or privileges of a party and
that is not a contested case.Appealable agency actions do not
include interim orders by selfsupporting regulatory boards, rules,
orders, standards or statements of policy of general application issued by an
administrative agency to implement, interpret or make specific the legislation
enforced or administered by it or clarifications of interpretation, nor does it
mean or include rules concerning the internal management of the agency that do
not affect private rights or interests. For the purposes of this paragraph,
administrative hearing does not include a public hearing held for the purpose
of receiving public comment on a proposed agency action.
4."Director" means the director of the
office of administrative hearings.
5."Final administrative decision" means a
decision by an agency that is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12,
chapter 7, article 6.
6."Office" means the office of
administrative hearings.
7."Selfsupporting regulatory
board" means any one of the following:
(a)The Arizona state board of accountancy.
(b)The state
board of appraisal.
(c)(b)The board of barbers.
(d)(c)The board of behavioral health
examiners.
(e)(d)The Arizona state boxing and
mixed martial arts commission.
(f)(e)The state board of chiropractic
examiners.
(g)(f)The board of cosmetology.
(h)(g)The state board of dental
examiners.
(i)(h)The state board of funeral
directors and embalmers.
(j)(i)The Arizona game and fish
commission.
(k)(j)The board of homeopathic and
integrated medicine examiners.
(l)(k)The Arizona medical board.
(m)(l)The naturopathic physicians
medical board.
(n)(m)The state board of nursing.
(o)(n)The board of examiners of nursing
care institution administrators and adult care home managers.
(p)(o)The board of occupational therapy
examiners.
(q)(p)The state board of dispensing
opticians.
(r)(q)The state board of optometry.
(s)(r)The Arizona board of osteopathic
examiners in medicine and surgery.
(t)(s)The Arizona peace officer
standards and training board.
(u)(t)The Arizona state board of
pharmacy.
(v)(u)The board of physical therapy.
(w)(v)The state board of podiatry
examiners.
(x)(w)The state board for private
postsecondary education.
(y)(x)The state board of psychologist
examiners.
(z)(y)The board of respiratory care
examiners.
(aa)(z)The office of pest management.
(bb)(aa)The state board of technical
registration.
(cc)(bb)The Arizona state veterinary
medical examining board.
(dd)(cc)The acupuncture board of examiners.
(ee)(dd)The Arizona regulatory board of
physician assistants.
(ff)(ee)The board of athletic training.
(gg)(ff)The board of massage therapy. END_STATUTE
Sec.51.Section 41-1758, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1758.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Agency"
means the supreme court, the department of economic security, the department of
child safety, the department of education, the department of health services,
the department of juvenile corrections, the department of emergency and
military affairs, the department of transportation, the state real estate
department, the state board of appraisal department of financial institutions,
the board of fingerprinting, the Arizona game and fish department, or the board of examiners of nursing care
institution administrators and assisted living facility managers or the state board of dental examiners.
2."Division"
means the fingerprinting division in the department of public safety.
3."Electronic or
internet-based fingerprinting services" means a secure system for
digitizing applicant fingerprints and transmitting the applicant data and
fingerprints of a person or entity submitting fingerprints to the department of
public safety for any authorized purpose under this title. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "secure system" means a system that complies with the
information technology security policy approved by the department of public
safety.
4."Good cause
exception" means the issuance of a fingerprint clearance card to an
applicant pursuant to section 41619.55.
5."Person"
means a person who is required to be fingerprinted pursuant to any of the
following:
(a)Section 8105.
(b)Section 8322.
(c)Section 8463.
(d)Section 8509.
(e)Section 8802.
(f)Section 15183.
(g)Section 15503.
(h)Section 15512.
(i)Section 15534.
(j)Section 15763.01.
(k)Section 15782.02.
(l)Section 151330.
(m)Section 151881.
(n)Section
17215.
(o)Section 28-3413.
(p)Section 321232.
(q)Section
32-1284.
(r)Section 32-1297.01.
(q)(s)Section 322108.01.
(r)(t)Section 322123.
(s)(u)Section 322371.
(t)(v)Section 322372.
(u)(w)Section 323620.
(v)(x)Section 323668.
(w)(y)Section 323669.
(x)(z)Section 36207.
(y)(aa)Section 36411.
(z)(bb)Section 36425.03.
(aa)(cc)Section 36446.04.
(bb)(dd)Section 36594.01.
(cc)(ee)Section 36594.02.
(dd)(ff)Section 36882.
(ee)(gg)Section 36883.02.
(ff)(hh)Section 36897.01.
(gg)(ii)Section 36897.03.
(hh)(jj)Section 363008.
(ii)(kk)Section 41619.52.
(jj)(ll)Section 41619.53.
(kk)(mm)Section 411964.
(ll)(nn)Section 411967.01.
(mm)(oo)Section 411968.
(nn)(pp)Section 411969.
(oo)(qq)Section 412814.
(pp)(rr)Section 46141,
subsection A.
(qq)(ss)Section 46321.
6."Vulnerable
adult" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133623. END_STATUTE
Sec.52.Section 41-3024.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3024.03.Department of financial institutions;
termination July 1, 2024
A.The department of financial institutions
terminates on July 1, 2024.
B.Title 6 is
and Title 32, chapter 36 are repealed
on January 1, 2025. END_STATUTE

