







REFERENCE TITLE: tobacco master settlement; sales data







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2594









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mitchell: Kern, Livingston, Mesnard, Weninger, Senators Lesko, Yee





AN ACT

amending section
44-7111, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to tobacco product manufacturers
escrow accounts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-7111, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7111.Tobacco; nonparticipating manufacturers; civil penalty;
violation; classification
This state enacts the model nonparticipating manufacturers
legislation as follows:
Section1.Findings and Purpose.
The legislature finds that violations of section 447101
threaten the integrity of the tobacco master settlement agreement, the fiscal
soundness of the state and the public health.The legislature finds
that enacting procedural enhancements will aid the enforcement of section 447101
and thereby safeguard the master settlement agreement, the fiscal soundness of
the state and the public health.
Section2.Definitions.
(a)"Brand
family" means all styles of cigarettes sold under the same trade mark and
differentiated from one another by means of additional modifiers or
descriptors, including, but not limited to, "menthol",
"lights", "kings" and "100s", and includes any
brand name (alone or in conjunction with any other word), trademark, logo,
symbol, motto, selling message, recognizable pattern of colors or any other
indicia of product identification identical or similar to, or identifiable
with, a previously known brand of cigarettes.
(b)"Cigarette" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 447101.
(c)"Department" means the department of
revenue.
(d)"Director" means the director of the
department.
(e)"Distributor" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 423001.
(f)"Master settlement agreement" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 447101.
(g)"Nonparticipating manufacturer" means
any tobacco product manufacturer that is not a participating manufacturer.
(h)"Participating manufacturer" has the
meaning given that term in section II(jj) of the master settlement agreement
and all amendments thereto.
(i)"Qualified escrow fund" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 447101.
(j)"Tobacco product manufacturer" has the
same meaning prescribed in section 447101.
(k)"Units sold" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 447101.
Section3.Certifications; Directory; Tax
Stamps.
(a)Certification.Every tobacco product
manufacturer whose cigarettes are sold in this state, whether directly or
through a distributor, retailer or similar intermediary or intermediaries,
shall execute and deliver on a form prescribed by the attorney general a
certification to the attorney general not later than the thirtieth day of April
each year, certifying that, as of the date of the certification, the tobacco
product manufacturer either is a participating manufacturer or is in full
compliance with section 447101, section 3(b), including all quarterly
installment payments required by regulations as may be promulgated by the
attorney general pursuant to section 5(f) of this article. As to all
certifications required by this article, if the certification is rejected due
to incompleteness or incorrectness, the tobacco product manufacturer may not
submit supplemental documentation to try to cure the rejection and must execute
and deliver an entirely new certification to the attorney general.
(1)A participating manufacturer shall include in
its certification a list of its brand families. The participating manufacturer
shall update the list thirty days prior to any addition to or modification of
its brand families by executing and delivering a supplemental certification to
the attorney general.
(2)A nonparticipating manufacturer shall include in
its certification (i) a list of all of its brand families and the number of
units sold for each brand family that were sold in the state during the
preceding calendar year, (ii) a list of all of its brand families that have
been sold in the state at any time during the current calendar year, (iii) indicating
by an asterisk, any brand family sold in the state during the preceding
calendar year that is no longer being sold in the state as of the date of the
certification and (iv) identifying by name and address any other manufacturer
of the brand families in the preceding or current calendar year and (v) for
each of the current calendar year and the preceding calendar year, a list of
all of this state's resident and nonresident distributors that the manufacturer
sold cigarettes to or that the manufacturer believes or has reason to believe
purchased or received any of the manufacturer's cigarettes from another
source.The nonparticipating manufacturer must execute and deliver a
supplemental certification to the attorney general to request any addition to
or modification of its brand families. The supplemental certification
requesting the addition or modification does not relieve the brand families
from the prohibitions set forth in sections 3(c) and 6(d) until the request is
approved by the attorney general and the addition or modification to the brand
families is listed or made in the directory.
(3)In the case of a nonparticipating manufacturer,
the certification shall further certify:
(a)That the nonparticipating manufacturer is
registered to do business in the state or has appointed a resident agent for
service of process and provided notice thereof as required by section 4.
(b)That the nonparticipating manufacturer (i) has
established and continues to maintain a qualified escrow fund and (ii) has
executed a qualified escrow agreement that has been reviewed and approved by
the attorney general and that governs the qualified escrow fund.
(c)That the nonparticipating manufacturer is in
full compliance with section 447101, section (3)(b) and this article,
and any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto;
(d)(i)The name, address and telephone
number of the financial institution where the nonparticipating manufacturer has
established the qualified escrow fund required pursuant to section 447101,
section 3(b) and all regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, (ii) the account
number of the qualified escrow fund and any subaccount number for the state,
(iii) the amount the nonparticipating manufacturer placed in the fund for
cigarettes sold in the state during the preceding calendar year, the date and
amount of each deposit and such evidence or verification as may be deemed
necessary by the attorney general to confirm the foregoing and (iv) the amount
of and date of any withdrawal or transfer of funds the nonparticipating
manufacturer made at any time from the fund or from any other qualified escrow
fund into which it ever made escrow payments pursuant to section 447101,
section 3(b) and all regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
(e)Unless the nonparticipating manufacturer or its
affiliate is licensed as a tobacco distributor in this state, that all sales or
shipments made by the nonparticipating manufacturer or its affiliate within or
into this state are made to a tobacco distributor that is licensed in this
state.
(f)All other information and materials specifically
requested by this section or the attorney general in the course of enforcing
this section.
(4)A tobacco product manufacturer may not include a
brand family in its certification unless (i) in the case of a participating
manufacturer, the participating manufacturer affirms that the brand family is
to be deemed to be its cigarettes for purposes of calculating its payments
under the master settlement agreement for the relevant year, in the volume and
shares determined pursuant to the master settlement agreement, and (ii) in the
case of a nonparticipating manufacturer, the nonparticipating manufacturer
affirms that the brand family is to be deemed to be its cigarettes for purposes
of section 447101, section 3(b). Nothing in this section shall be
construed as limiting or otherwise affecting the state's right to maintain that
a brand family constitutes cigarettes of a different tobacco product
manufacturer for purposes of calculating payments under the master settlement
agreement or for purposes of section 447101.
(5)Tobacco product manufacturers shall maintain all
invoices and documentation of sales and other information relied upon for the
certification for a period of five years, unless otherwise required by law to
maintain them for a greater period of time.
(6)A tobacco product manufacturer that is not
currently listed in the directory must submit an initial certification subject
to the same requirements and review process set forth in this article for
annual certifications.The tobacco product manufacturers brand
families remain subject to the prohibitions set forth in sections 3(c) and 6(d)
until listed in the directory.
(b)Directory of cigarettes approved for stamping
and sale. Not later than ninety days after the effective date of this article,
the attorney general shall develop and publish on the attorney general's web
site a directory listing all tobacco product manufacturers that have provided
current and accurate certifications conforming to the requirements of
section3(a) and all brand families that are listed in those
certifications (the "directory"), except as noted below.
(1)The attorney general shall not include or retain
in the directory the name or brand families of any nonparticipating
manufacturer that fails to provide the required certification or whose
certification the attorney general determines is not in compliance with any
term of this article, unless the attorney general has determined that the
violation has been cured to the satisfaction of the attorney general.
(2)Neither a tobacco product manufacturer nor brand
family shall be included or retained in the directory if the attorney general
concludes, in the case of a nonparticipating manufacturer, that (i) any escrow
payment required pursuant to section 447101, section 3(b) for any period
for any brand family, whether or not listed by the nonparticipating
manufacturer, has not been fully paid into a qualified escrow fund governed by
a qualified escrow agreement that has been approved by the attorney general, or
(ii) any outstanding final judgment, including interest thereon, for a
violation of section 447101 has not been fully satisfied for the brand
family or the manufacturer.
(3)The attorney general shall update the directory
as necessary in order to correct mistakes and to add or remove a tobacco
product manufacturer or brand family to keep the directory in conformity with
the requirements of this article.
(4)A distributor that has lawfully affixed stamps
to cigarettes and subsequently is unable to sell those cigarettes lawfully
because the cigarettes have been removed from the directory pursuant to section
3(b)(2) of this article, may apply to the department for a refund of the cost
of such stamps.
(5)Every distributor shall provide and update as
necessary an electronic mail address to the director and attorney general for
the purpose of receiving any notifications as may be required by this article.
(6)A tobacco product manufacturer included in the
directory may request that a new brand family be added to the directory by
executing and delivering a supplemental certification with the necessary
information to the attorney general and the director. Not later than fortyfive
business days after receiving such a request, and at such earlier time as is
reasonable to do so, the attorney general shall either (i) certify the new
brand family or (ii)deny the request.However, in cases
where the attorney general reasonably determines that it needs additional
information to ascertain whether the requestor is the tobacco product
manufacturer of the new brand family, the attorney general may take whatever
additional time is reasonably needed to process the request, to locate and
assemble information or documents needed to process the request, and to notify
persons or agencies affected by the request.
(c)Prohibition against stamping or sale of
cigarettes not in the directory.It shall be unlawful for any person
(1) to affix a stamp to a package or other container of cigarettes of a tobacco
product manufacturer or brand family not included in the directory or (2) to
sell, offer or possess for sale, in this state, including for sale within or
outside of this state, cigarettes of a tobacco product manufacturer or brand
family not included in the directory.
(d)Every nonparticipating manufacturer shall post a
bond for the exclusive benefit of this state.
(e)The bond shall be posted at least ten days in
advance of each calendar quarter as a condition to the nonparticipating
manufacturer and its brand
families being included in the state directory for that quarter. The amount of
the bond shall be the greater of (i) the greatest required escrow amount due
from the nonparticipating manufacturer or its predecessor for any of the twelve
preceding calendar quarters or (ii) fifty thousand dollars. The bond
certifications and materials must be submitted as part of the initial, annual
and supplemental certifications required by this article.
(f)If a nonparticipating manufacturer that posted a
bond has failed to make or have made on its behalf deposits equal to the full
amount owed for a quarter within fifteen days following the due date of the
quarter under section 5, subparagraph (g), the state may execute on the bond in
the amount equal to any remaining amount of the escrow due.Amounts
that the state collects on a bond shall be deposited into the state treasury
and shall reduce the amount of escrow due from that nonparticipating
manufacturer in the dollar amount collected. Escrow obligations above the
amount collected on the bond remain due from that nonparticipating manufacturer
and, as provided in any joint and several provision in this section, from the
importers that sold its cigarettes during that calendar quarter.
(g)The office of the attorney general shall adopt
rules necessary to implement subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.
(h)Nonparticipating manufacturers located outside
the United States must provide a declaration in a form prescribed by the
attorney general from each of its importers into the United States of any of
its brand families, that the importer accepts joint and several liability with
the nonparticipating manufacturer for all escrow deposits due pursuant to
section 447101 as well as all penalties and other relief available to
the state pursuant to section 447101 and this section. The declaration
shall appoint a resident agent for service of process in this state pursuant to
section 4. The declarations shall be submitted as part of the certifications
required pursuant to this section and updated at least thirty days before any
other importer begins the importation of the manufacturer's cigarettes.
Failure to comply with this subparagraph is grounds for removal from the directory.
For the purposes of this subparagraph, "importer" has the same
meaning as in 27 Code of Federal Regulations section 41.11
(2012).The importer declaration must be submitted as part of the
initial, annual and supplemental certifications required by this article.
(i)The attorney general shall have the authority to
not retain or refuse to include in the directory any nonparticipating
manufacturer or the manufacturer's brand families, that (i)does not
certify that it is subject to the enforcement of section 447101, this
section and section 36798.06 without any immunity, (ii)provides
incorrect, false or misleading statements in any certification submitted to
this state pursuant to section 447101 or this section with regard to any
year or (iii) was previously or is currently not in compliance with any other
federal or state laws, including another state's qualifying statute as defined
in the master settlement agreement or if the attorney general has reason to
believe that the tobacco product manufacturer will not comply with the laws.
(j)The attorney general has the authority to
require any nonparticipating manufacturer to submit all information,
certifications, affidavits and other materials that the attorney general deems
appropriate to determine compliance with this section and other related laws,
including the grounds for not retaining or not including in the directory any
nonparticipating manufacturer or the manufacturer's brand families.
Section4.Agent for Service of Process.
(a)Requirement for agent for service of process.
Any nonresident or foreign nonparticipating manufacturer that has not
registered to do business in the state as a foreign corporation or business
entity shall, as a condition precedent to having its brand families included or
retained in the directory, appoint and continually engage without interruption
the services of an agent in this state to act as agent for the service of
process on whom all process, and any action or proceeding against it concerning
or arising out of the enforcement of this article and section 447101,
may be served in any manner authorized by law. Such service on the agent
constitutes legal and valid service of process on the nonparticipating
manufacturer.The nonparticipating manufacturer shall provide the
name, address, phone number and proof of the appointment and availability of
the agent to and to the satisfaction of the attorney general.
(b)The nonparticipating manufacturer shall provide
notice to the attorney general thirty calendar days prior to termination of the
authority of an agent and shall further provide proof to the satisfaction of
the attorney general of the appointment of a new agent not less than five
calendar days prior to the termination of an existing agent appointment. In
the event an agent terminates an agency appointment, the nonparticipating
manufacturer shall notify the attorney general of the termination within five
calendar days and shall include proof to the satisfaction of the attorney
general of the appointment of a new agent.
(c)Any nonparticipating manufacturer whose
cigarettes are sold in this state and who has not appointed and engaged an
agent as herein required shall be deemed to have appointed the secretary of
state as the agent and may be proceeded against in courts of this state by
service of process upon the secretary of state; provided, however, that the
appointment of the secretary of state as the agent shall not satisfy the
condition precedent to having the brand families of the nonparticipating manufacturer
included or retained in the directory.
Section5.Reporting of Information; Escrow
Installments.
(a)Reporting by distributors. Not later than
twenty calendar days after the end of each calendar month, and more frequently
if so directed by the director, each distributor shall submit to the department
on a form prescribed by the department such information as the director
requires to facilitate compliance with this article, including, but not limited
to, a list by brand family of the total number of cigarettes or, in the case of
roll your own, the equivalent stick count, for which the distributor affixed
stamps during the previous calendar quarter or otherwise paid the tax due for
the cigarettes.The department shall review all information reported
by the distributor for accuracy and completeness. The distributor shall
maintain, and make available to the director and the attorney general, all
invoices and documentation of sales of all nonparticipating manufacturer
cigarettes and any other information relied upon in reporting to the director
for a period of five years.
(b)Disclosure of information. The department is
authorized to disclose to the attorney general any information received under
this article and requested by the attorney general for purposes of determining
compliance with and enforcing the provisions of this article.The
department and attorney general shall share with each other the information
received under this article, and may share the information with other federal,
state or local agencies only for purposes of enforcement of this article,
section 447101 or corresponding laws of other states.
(c)If a tobacco product manufacturer required to
establish a qualified escrow fund under section 447101, section 3(b)
disputes the attorney general's determination of the amount that the
manufacturer is required to deposit into escrow and the attorney general
determines that the dispute can likely be resolved by information contained in
reports submitted by distributors to the department indicating sales or
purchases of the manufacturer's cigarettes, then the attorney general shall
produce the relevant portions of the reports to the
manufacturer.However, before disclosing the foregoing information,
the attorney general may require the manufacturer to provide all records
related to its sales of the cigarettes in dispute.The disclosure
provided by the attorney general to a tobacco product manufacturer pursuant to
this subsection shall be limited to information concerning the cigarettes
alleged by the state to be subject to the requirements of section 447101,
section 3(b), may be used by the manufacturer only for the limited purpose of
determining the appropriate escrow deposit, and may not be disclosed by the
manufacturer to any third parties.
(d)Verification of qualified escrow fund. The
attorney general may require at any time from the nonparticipating
manufacturer, proof from the financial institution in which the manufacturer
has established a qualified escrow fund for the purpose of compliance with
section 447101, section 3(b) of the amount of money in the fund,
exclusive of interest, the amount and the date of each deposit to the fund, and
the amount and date of each withdrawal from the fund.
(e)Requests for additional information.In
addition to the information required to be submitted pursuant to this article,
the director and attorney general may require a distributor or tobacco product
manufacturer to submit any additional information including, but not limited
to, samples of the packaging or labeling of each brand family, as is necessary
to enable the attorney general to determine whether a tobacco product
manufacturer is in compliance with this article.
(f)Quarterly escrow installments. To promote
compliance with the provisions of this article, the attorney general may
promulgate regulations requiring tobacco product manufacturers subject to the
requirements of section3(a)(2) to make the escrow deposits required in
quarterly installments during the year in which the sales covered by the
deposits are made:
(1)In circumstances where the attorney general
reasonably concludes that a manufacturer may not fully and timely comply with
section 447101, section 3(b).
(2)Where manufacturers have not made escrow
deposits pursuant to section 447101, section 3(b) during the preceding
calendar year.
The attorney general may require production of information
sufficient to enable the attorney general to determine the adequacy of the
amount of the installment deposit.
(g)A tobacco product manufacturer that is subject
to the requirements of section 3(a)(2) shall make the required escrow deposits
in quarterly installments following each sales quarter. The attorney general
may require the production of information that is sufficient to enable the
attorney general to determine the adequacy of the amount of the installment
deposit. Quarterly escrow installment deposits must be made pursuant to the
following schedule:
(1)For the first quarter, January through March, on
or before May 31 of the calendar year.
(2)For the second quarter, April through June, on
or before August 31 of the calendar year.
(3)For the third quarter, July through September,
on or before November 30 of the calendar year.
(4)For the fourth quarter, October through
December, on or before February 28 of the following calendar year.
Section6.Penalties
and Other Remedies.
(a)License
revocation and civil penalty. In addition to or in lieu of any other civil or
criminal remedy provided by law, upon a determination that a distributor has
violated section 3(c) or any regulation adopted pursuant to this article, the
director may revoke or suspend the license of the distributor in the manner
provided by title 41, chapter 6, article 10 for contested cases.Each
stamp affixed and each sale or offer to sell cigarettes in violation of section
3(c) shall constitute a separate violation.The director may also
impose a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed the greater of five hundred per cent percent of the retail value of the cigarettes
or five thousand dollars upon a determination of violation of section 3(c) or
any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto. The penalty shall be imposed in
the manner provided by title 41, chapter 6, article 10 for contested cases.
(b)Contraband and seizure.Any
cigarettes that have been sold, offered for sale or possessed for sale in this
state in violation of section3(c) shall be deemed contraband and the
cigarettes shall be subject to seizure by the department and forfeiture, and
all the cigarettes so seized and forfeited shall be destroyed and not resold.
(c)Injunction.The attorney general, on
behalf of the director, may seek an injunction to restrain a threatened or
actual violation of section3(c), 5(a) or 5(d) by a distributor and to
compel the distributor to comply with those sections.In any action
brought pursuant to this section, the state shall be entitled to recover the
costs of investigation, costs of the action and reasonable attorney fees.
(d)Unlawful sale and distribution. It shall be
unlawful for a person to (i) sell or distribute cigarettes, or (ii) acquire,
hold, own, possess, transport, import or cause to be imported cigarettes, that
the person knows or should know are intended for distribution or sale in the
state in violation of section 3(c).A violation of this section is a
class 1 misdemeanor.
(e)Deceptive trade practice.A person
who violates section 3(c) engages in an unlawful practice in violation of
section 441522. Standing to bring an action to enforce title 44,
chapter 10, article 7 for violation of section 3(c) shall lie solely with the
attorney general.
Section7.Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a)Notice and review of determination.A
determination of the attorney general to not include or to remove from the
directory a brand family or tobacco product manufacturer shall be subject to
review as an appealable agency action in the manner prescribed by title 41,
chapter 6, article 10.
(b)Dates.For the year 2003, the first
report of distributors required by section 5(a) shall be due thirty calendar
days after the effective date of this article.The certifications by
a tobacco product manufacturer described in section 3(a) shall be due fortyfive
calendar days after the effective date and the directory described in section
3(b) shall be published or made available within ninety calendar days after the
effective date.
(c)Promulgation of regulations.The
department and the attorney general may promulgate regulations necessary to
effect the purposes of this article.
(d)Recovery of costs and fees by attorney general.
In any action brought by the state to enforce this article, the state shall be
entitled to recover the costs of investigation, expert witness fees, costs of
the action and reasonable attorney fees.
(e)Disgorgement of profits for violations of
article. If a court determines that a person has violated this article, the
court shall order any profits, gain, gross receipts or other benefit from the
violation to be disgorged and paid to the state general fund. Unless otherwise
expressly provided, the remedies or penalties provided by this article are
cumulative to each other and to the remedies or penalties available under all
other laws of this state.
(f)Construction and severability.If a
court of competent jurisdiction finds that the provisions of this article and
section 447101 conflict and cannot be harmonized, then the provisions of
section 447101 shall control. If any section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this article causes section 447101
to no longer constitute a qualifying or model statute, as those terms are
defined in the master settlement agreement, then that portion of this article
shall not be valid. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this article is for any reason held to be
invalid, unlawful or unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this article or any part thereof.
(g)Tobacco sales data
confidentiality. All
tobacco sales data provided to the attorney general or the department of
revenue pursuant to the master settlement or agreements regarding disputes
under the master settlement agreement shall be confidential and shall not be
made public. END_STATUTE

