








REFERENCE TITLE: charter aircraft; tax exemption







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2533









Introduced by
Representative
  Shope





AN ACT

Amending sections
42-5061 and 42-5159, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to transaction
privilege and use tax deductions and exemptions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5061, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5061.Retail classification; definitions
A.The retail classification is comprised of the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail.The tax
base for the retail classification is the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income derived from the business. The tax imposed on the retail classification
does not apply to the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from:
1.Professional or personal service occupations or
businesses that involve sales or transfers of tangible personal property only
as inconsequential elements.
2.Services rendered in addition to selling tangible
personal property at retail.
3.Sales of warranty or service
contracts.The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal
property provided under the conditions of such contracts is subject to tax
under section 425156.
4.Sales of tangible personal property by any
nonprofit organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes
and recognized by the United States internal revenue service under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
5.Sales to persons engaged in business classified
under the restaurant classification of articles used by human beings for food,
drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
6.Business activity that is properly included in
any other business classification that is taxable under this article.
7.The sale of stocks and bonds.
8.Drugs and medical oxygen, including delivery hose,
mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the prescription of a member of the
medical, dental or veterinarian profession who is licensed by law to administer
such substances.
9.Prosthetic appliances as defined in section 23501
and as prescribed or
recommended by a health professional who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 29.
10.Insulin, insulin syringes and glucose test
strips.
11.Prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses.
12.Hearing aids as defined in section 361901.
13.Durable medical equipment that has a centers for
medicare and medicaid services common procedure code, is designated
reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a person who is licensed under title
32, chapter 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 17 or 29, can withstand repeated use, is
primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is generally not
useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is appropriate for
use in the home.
14.Sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this
state for use outside this state if the motor vehicle dealer ships or delivers
the motor vehicle to a destination out of this state.
15.Food, as provided in and subject to the
conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
16.Items purchased with United States department of
agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113;
91 Stat. 958) or food instruments issued under section 17 of the child
nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat. 3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302;
42 United States Code section 1786).
17.Textbooks by any bookstore that are required by
any state university or community college.
18.Food and drink to a person that is engaged in a
business that is classified under the restaurant classification and that
provides such food and drink without monetary charge to its employees for their
own consumption on the premises during the employees' hours of employment.
19.Articles of food, drink or condiment and
accessory tangible personal property to a school district or charter school if
such articles and accessory tangible personal property are to be prepared and
served to persons for consumption on the premises of a public school within the
district or on the premises of the charter school during school hours.
20.Lottery tickets or shares pursuant to title 5,
chapter 5.1, article1.
21.The sale of cash equivalents and the sale of
precious metal bullion and monetized bullion to the ultimate consumer, but the
sale of coins or other forms of money for manufacture into jewelry or works of
art is subject to the tax and the gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the redemption of any cash equivalent by the holder as a means of
payment for goods or services that are taxable under this article is subject to
the tax. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Cash equivalents" means items or
intangibles, whether or not negotiable, that are sold to one or more persons,
through which a value denominated in money is purchased in advance and may be
redeemed in full or in part for tangible personal property, intangibles or
services.Cash equivalents include gift cards, stored value cards,
gift certificates, vouchers, traveler's checks, money orders or other
instruments, orders or electronic mechanisms, such as an electronic code,
personal identification number or digital payment mechanism, or any other
prepaid intangible right to acquire tangible personal property, intangibles or
services in the future, whether from the seller of the cash equivalent or from
another person. Cash equivalents do not include either of the following:
(i)Items or intangibles that are sold to one or
more persons, through which a value is not denominated in money.
(ii)Prepaid calling cards or prepaid authorization
numbers for telecommunications services made taxable by subsection P of this
section.
(b)"Monetized bullion" means coins and
other forms of money that are manufactured from gold, silver or other metals
and that have been or are used as a medium of exchange in this or another
state, the United States or a foreign nation.
(c)"Precious metal bullion" means
precious metal, including gold, silver, platinum, rhodium and palladium, that
has been smelted or refined so that its value depends on its contents and not
on its form.
22.Motor vehicle fuel and use fuel that are subject
to a tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, sales of use fuel to a
holder of a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued under section 285739,
sales of aviation fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under section 288344
and sales of jet fuel that are subject to the tax imposed under article 8 of
this chapter.
23.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in the business of leasing or renting such property under the personal
property rental classification if such property is to be leased or rented by
such person.
24.Tangible personal property sold in interstate or
foreign commerce if prohibited from being so taxed by the constitution of the
United States or the constitution of this state.
25.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)A qualifying hospital as defined in section 425001.
(b)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the tangible personal property is used by the
organization solely to provide health and medical related educational and
charitable services.
(c)A qualifying health care organization as defined
in section 425001 if the organization is dedicated to providing
educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family medical education training
for blind and visually impaired children and children with multiple
disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(d)A qualifying community health center as defined
in section 425001.
(e)A nonprofit charitable organization that has
qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that
regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no
cost.
(f)For taxable periods beginning from and after
June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that provides residential
apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a
facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the tangible personal
property is used by the organization solely to provide residential apartment
housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years of age in a facility
that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(g)A qualifying health sciences educational institution
as defined in section 425001.
(h)Any person representing or working on behalf of
another person described in subdivisions (a) through (g) of this paragraph if
the tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project
described in section 425075, subsection O.
26.Magazines or other periodicals or other
publications by this state to encourage tourist travel.
27.Tangible personal property sold to:
(a)A person that is subject to tax under this
article by reason of being engaged in business classified under section 425075
or to a subcontractor working under the control of a person engaged in business
classified under section 425075, if the property so sold is any of the
following:
(i)Incorporated or fabricated by the person into
any real property, structure, project, development or improvement as part of
the business.
(ii)Incorporated or fabricated by the person into
any project described in section 425075, subsection O.
(iii)Used in environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
(b)A person that is not subject to tax under
section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of a certificate under
section 425009, subsection L, if the property so sold is incorporated or
fabricated by the person into the real property, structure, project,
development or improvement described in the certificate.
28.The sale of a motor vehicle to:
(a)A nonresident of this state if the purchaser's
state of residence does not allow a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter and if the nonresident has secured a
special ninety day nonresident registration permit for the vehicle as
prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01.
(b)An enrolled member of an Indian tribe who
resides on the Indian reservation established for that tribe.
29.Tangible personal property purchased in this
state by a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under section
501(c)(3) of the United States internal revenue code and that engages in and
uses such property exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical
disabilities if the programs are exclusively for training, job placement,
rehabilitation or testing.
30.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is
associated with a major league baseball team or a national touring professional
golfing association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to
the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
31.Sales of commodities, as defined by title 7
United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale in a warehouse in
this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a contract for
future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market regulated by the
United States commodity futures trading commission.
32.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if
the organization sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and
ranch animals and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
33.Sales of seeds, seedlings, roots, bulbs,
cuttings and other propagative material to persons who use those items to
commercially produce agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural
crops in this state.
34.Machinery, equipment, technology or related
supplies that are only useful to assist a person with a physical disability as
defined in section 46191 or a person who has a developmental disability
as defined in section 36551 or has a head injury as defined in section
413201 to be more independent and functional.
35.Sales of natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas
used to propel a motor vehicle.
36.Paper machine clothing, such as forming fabrics
and dryer felts, sold to a paper manufacturer and directly used or consumed in
paper manufacturing.
37.Coal, petroleum, coke, natural gas, virgin fuel
oil and electricity sold to a qualified environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor as defined in section 411514.02 and directly used
or consumed in the generation or provision of on-site power or energy solely
for environmental technology manufacturing, producing or processing or
environmental protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full
consecutive calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper
manufacturing machine is placed in service. In the case of an environmental
technology manufacturer, producer or processor who does not manufacture paper,
the time period shall begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing
or production equipment is placed in service.
38.Sales of liquid, solid or gaseous chemicals used
in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining, refining, metallurgical
operations, research and development and, beginning on January 1, 1999,
printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as part of an
integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the materials from
which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or permitting a chemical
or physical change to occur in the materials as part of the production
process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are used or consumed
in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but does not affect
any deduction for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by this section.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a commercial
printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing, copying and
bookbinding.
39.Through December 31, 1994, personal property
liquidation transactions, conducted by a personal property liquidator. From
and after December 31, 1994, personal property liquidation transactions shall
be taxable under this section provided that nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to authorize the taxation of casual activities or transactions under
this chapter. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Personal property liquidation
transaction" means a sale of personal property made by a personal property
liquidator acting solely on behalf of the owner of the personal property sold
at the dwelling of the owner or on the death of any owner, on behalf of the
surviving spouse, if any, any devisee or heir or the personal representative of
the estate of the deceased, if one has been appointed.
(b)"Personal property liquidator" means a
person who is retained to conduct a sale in a personal property liquidation
transaction.
40.Sales of food, drink and condiment for
consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or other institution under
the jurisdiction of the state department of corrections, the department of
public safety, the department of juvenile corrections or a county sheriff.
41.A motor vehicle and any repair and replacement
parts and tangible personal property becoming a part of such motor vehicle sold
to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28, chapter 16,
article 4 and who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting such
property.
42.Livestock and poultry feed, salts, vitamins and
other additives for livestock or poultry consumption that are sold to persons
who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry
products or who are engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For
the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
43.Sales of implants used as growth promotants and
injectable medicines, not already exempt under paragraph 8 of this subsection,
for livestock or poultry owned by or in possession of persons who are engaged
in producing livestock, poultry, or livestock or poultry products or who are
engaged in feeding livestock or poultry commercially. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
44.Sales of motor vehicles at auction to
nonresidents of this state for use outside this state if the vehicles are
shipped or delivered out of this state, regardless of where title to the motor
vehicles passes or its free on board point.
45.Tangible personal property sold to a person
engaged in business and subject to tax under the transient lodging
classification if the tangible personal property is a personal hygiene item or
articles used by human beings for food, drink or condiment, except alcoholic
beverages, that are furnished without additional charge to and intended to be
consumed by the transient during the transient's occupancy.
46.Sales of alternative fuel, as defined in section
1215, to a used oil fuel burner who has received a permit to burn used
oil or used oil fuel under section 49426 or 49480.
47.Sales of materials that are purchased by or for
publicly funded libraries including school district libraries, charter school
libraries, community college libraries, state university libraries or federal,
state, county or municipal libraries for use by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or photographic materials, beginning
August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or digital media materials, beginning
July 17, 1994.
48.Tangible personal property sold to a commercial
airline and consisting of food, beverages and condiments and accessories used
for serving the food and beverages, if those items are to be provided without
additional charge to passengers for consumption in flight. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "commercial airline" means a person holding a federal
certificate of public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit
for air transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
49.Sales of alternative fuel vehicles if the
vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted to operate on
alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a conventional diesel fuel
motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215.
50.Sales of any spirituous, vinous or malt liquor
by a person that is licensed in this state as a wholesaler by the department of
liquor licenses and control pursuant to title 4, chapter 2, article 1.
51.Sales of tangible personal property to be
incorporated or installed as part of environmental response or remediation
activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph 6.
52.Sales of tangible personal property by a
nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(6) of
the internal revenue code if the organization produces, organizes or promotes
cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part of the organization's
net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
53.Application services that are designed to assess
or test student learning or to promote curriculum design or enhancement
purchased by or for any school district, charter school, community college or
state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application services" means software
applications provided remotely using hypertext transfer protocol or another
network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum design or enhancement"
means planning, implementing or reporting on courses of study, lessons,
assignments or other learning activities.
54.Sales of motor vehicle fuel and use fuel to a
qualified business under section 411516 for off-road use in harvesting,
processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from qualifying
projects as defined in section 411516.
55.Sales of repair parts installed in equipment
used directly by a qualified business under section 411516 in
harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed from
qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
56.Sales or other transfers of renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power utility to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
57.Computer data center equipment purchased by the
owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of the computer data center or
an authorized agent of the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant
during the qualification period for use in a computer data center that is certified
by the Arizona commerce authority under section 411519. To qualify for
this deduction, at the time of purchase, the owner, operator or qualified
colocation tenant must present to the retailer its certificate that is issued
pursuant to section 411519 and that establishes its qualification for
the deduction.For the purposes of this paragraph, "computer
data center", "computer data center equipment",
"qualification period" and "qualified colocation tenant"
have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
58.Orthodontic devices dispensed by a dental
professional who is licensed under title 32, chapter 11 to a patient as part of
the practice of dentistry.
59.Sales of tangible personal property incorporated
or fabricated into a project described in section 425075, subsection O,
that is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for
which the owner, as defined in section 425075, of the project is an
Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated Indian" means an
individual native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was established.
(b)"Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by treaty, law or executive
order and that are recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe" means any organized
nation, tribe, band or community that is recognized as an Indian tribe by the
United States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under
the laws of the Indian tribe.
B.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from sales of the following categories of tangible
personal property shall be deducted from the tax base:
1.Machinery, or equipment, used directly in
manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining or metallurgical
operations. The terms "manufacturing", "processing",
"fabricating", "job printing", "refining" and
"metallurgical" as used in this paragraph refer to and include those
operations commonly understood within their ordinary meaning.
"Metallurgical operations" includes leaching, milling, precipitating,
smelting and refining.
2.Mining machinery, or equipment, used directly in
the process of extracting ores or minerals from the earth for commercial purposes,
including equipment required to prepare the materials for extraction and
handling, loading or transporting such extracted material to the
surface."Mining" includes underground, surface and open
pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal property sold to persons
engaged in business classified under the telecommunications classification,
including a person representing or working on behalf of such a person in a
manner described in section 425075, subsection O, and consisting of
central office switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange
equipment, microwave radio equipment and carrier equipment including optical
fiber, coaxial cable and other transmission media that are components of
carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment or transmission lines used
directly in producing or transmitting electrical power, but not including
distribution. Transformers and control equipment used at transmission
substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or transmitting
electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses, asses, sheep, ratites,
swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or production stock, including
sales of breedings or ownership shares in such animals used for breeding or
production.
6.Pipes or valves four inches in diameter or larger
used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial gas, water or coal slurry,
including compressor units, regulators, machinery and equipment, fittings,
seals and any other part that is used in operating the pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft, navigational and communication
instruments and other accessories and related equipment sold to:
(a)A person:
(i)Holding,
or exempted by federal law from obtaining, a federal certificate
of public convenience and necessity.
, a supplemental air carrier certificate

(ii)that is
Certificated or licensed under federal aviation regulations (14
Code of Federal Regulations part 121) as
a scheduled or unscheduled carrier of persons or property for hire for use as
or in conjunction with or becoming part of an aircraft to be used to transport
persons or property for hire in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
or 
(iii)Holding
a foreign air carrier permit for air transportation for use as or in
conjunction with or becoming a part of aircraft to be used to transport
persons, property or United States mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign
commerce.
(iv)Operating
an aircraft in any manner for compensation or hire including as an air carrier,
a foreign air carrier or a commercial operator or under a restricted category,
within the meaning of 14 Code of Federal Regulations, regardless of whether the
operation or aircraft is regulated or certified under part 91, 119, 121, 133,
135, 136 or 137, or another part of 14 Code of Federal Regulations.
(v)Acquiring
an aircraft for the purpose of selling, leasing or otherwise transferring
operational control, within the meaning of Federal Aviation Administration
Operations Specification A008, or its successor, of the aircraft, instruments
or accessories to one or more persons described in item (i),
(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this subdivision.
(b)Any foreign government.
(c)Persons who are not residents of this state and
who will not use such property in this state other than in removing such
property from this state.This subdivision also applies to
corporations that are not incorporated in this state, regardless of maintaining
a place of business in this state, if the principal corporate office is located
outside this state and the property will not be used in this state other than
in removing the property from this state.
8.Machinery, tools, equipment and related supplies
used or consumed directly in repairing, remodeling or maintaining aircraft,
aircraft engines or aircraft component parts by or on behalf of a certificated
or licensed carrier of persons or property.
9.Railroad rolling stock, rails, ties and signal
control equipment used directly to transport persons or property.
10.Machinery or equipment used directly to drill
for oil or gas or used directly in the process of extracting oil or gas from
the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban mass transit vehicles that
are used directly to transport persons or property for hire or pursuant to a
governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass transportation program and
that are sold to bus companies holding a federal certificate of convenience and
necessity or operated by any city, town or other governmental entity or by any
person contracting with such governmental entity as part of a governmentally
adopted and controlled program to provide urban mass transportation.
12.Groundwater measuring devices required under
section 45604.
13.New machinery and equipment consisting of
tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered implements,
machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and machinery and
equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip irrigation lines
not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and that are used for
commercial production of agricultural, horticultural, viticultural and
floricultural crops and products in this state. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"New machinery and equipment" means
machinery and equipment that have never been sold at retail except pursuant to
leases or rentals that do not total two years or more.
(b)"Selfpowered implements"
includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or equipment used in research and
development. For the purposes of this paragraph, "research and
development" means basic and applied research in the sciences and
engineering, and designing, developing or testing prototypes, processes or new
products, including research and development of computer software that is
embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or new product or that is
required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt under this section to
function effectively. Research and development do not include manufacturing
quality control, routine consumer product testing, market research, sales
promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or psychology, computer
software research that is not included in the definition of research and
development, or other nontechnological activities or technical services.
15.Tangible personal property that is used by
either of the following to receive, store, convert, produce, generate, decode,
encode, control or transmit telecommunications information:
(a)Any direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47 Code of Federal
Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite television or data transmission
facility, if both of the following conditions are met:
(i)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during the test period were
transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission services that operate pursuant to 47 Code of
Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds of the transmissions,
measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of those direct broadcast
television or data transmission services during the test period were
transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of
this paragraph, "test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive
day period beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal
property is purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite
television or data transmission service first transmits information to its
customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real property.
Clean room:
(a)Includes the integrated systems, fixtures,
piping, movable partitions, lighting and all property that is necessary or
adapted to reduce contamination or to control airflow, temperature, humidity,
chemical purity or other environmental conditions or manufacturing tolerances,
as well as the production machinery and equipment operating in conjunction with
the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the building or other
permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses the clean room
environment.
17.Machinery and equipment used directly in the
feeding of poultry, the environmental control of housing for poultry, the
movement of eggs within a production and packaging facility or the sorting or
cooling of eggs. This exemption does not apply to vehicles used for
transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or equipment, including related
structural components, that is employed in connection with manufacturing,
processing, fabricating, job printing, refining, mining, natural gas pipelines,
metallurgical operations, telecommunications, producing or transmitting
electricity or research and development and that is used directly to meet or
exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal energy regulatory
commission, the United States environmental protection agency, the United
States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department of environmental
quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent, monitor, control
or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and equipment that are sold to a
person engaged in the commercial production of livestock, livestock products or
agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or products in
this state, including a person representing or working on behalf of such a
person in a manner described in section 425075, subsection O, if the
machinery and equipment are used directly and primarily to prevent, monitor,
control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or equipment that enables a television
station to originate and broadcast or to receive and broadcast digital
television signals and that was purchased to facilitate compliance with the
telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104; 110 Stat. 56; 47 United
States Code section 336) and the federal communications commission order issued
April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part 73). This paragraph does
not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or replacement parts purchased for the
machinery or equipment described in this paragraph.
(b)Machinery or equipment purchased to replace
machinery or equipment for which an exemption was previously claimed and taken
under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or equipment purchased after the
television station has ceased analog broadcasting, or purchased after November
1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment that is purchased from and
after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a qualified business under section
411516 for harvesting or processing qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516. To qualify for
this deduction, the qualified business at the time of purchase must present its
certification approved by the department.
C.The deductions provided by subsection B of this
section do not include sales of:
1.Expendable materials.For the purposes
of this paragraph, expendable materials do not include any of the categories of
tangible personal property specified in subsection B of this section regardless
of the cost or useful life of that property.
2.Janitorial equipment and hand tools.
3.Office equipment, furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal property used in selling or
distributing activities, other than the telecommunications transmissions
described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of this section.
5.Motor vehicles required to be licensed by this
state, except buses or other urban mass transit vehicles specifically exempted
pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this section, without regard to the
use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings, docks, depots and all other
materials of whatever kind or character not specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and equipment or other tangible
personal property used by a contractor in the performance of a contract.
D.In addition to the deductions from the tax base
prescribed by subsection A of this section, there shall be deducted from the
tax base the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from sales of
machinery, equipment, materials and other tangible personal property used
directly and predominantly to construct a qualified environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing facility as described in section 411514.02.
This subsection applies for ten full consecutive calendar or fiscal years after
the start of initial construction.
E.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income from retail sales of heavy trucks and trailers does not
include any amount attributable to federal excise taxes imposed by 26 United
States Code section 4051.
F.If a person is engaged in an occupation or
business to which subsection A of this section applies, the person's books
shall be kept so as to show separately the gross proceeds of sales of tangible
personal property and the gross income from sales of services, and if not so
kept the tax shall be imposed on the total of the person's gross proceeds of
sales of tangible personal property and gross income from services.
G.If a person is engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at both wholesale and retail, the tax under this
section applies only to the gross proceeds of the sales made other than at
wholesale if the person's books are kept so as to show separately the gross
proceeds of sales of each class, and if the books are not so kept, the tax
under this section applies to the gross proceeds of every sale so made.
H.A person who engages in manufacturing, baling,
crating, boxing, barreling, canning, bottling, sacking, preserving, processing
or otherwise preparing for sale or commercial use any livestock, agricultural
or horticultural product or any other product, article, substance or commodity
and who sells the product of such business at retail in this state is deemed,
as to such sales, to be engaged in business classified under the retail
classification.This subsection does not apply to businesses
classified under the:
1.Transporting classification.
2.Utilities classification.
3.Telecommunications classification.
4.Pipeline classification.
5.Private car line classification.
6.Publication classification.
7.Job printing classification.
8.Prime contracting classification.
9.Restaurant classification.
I.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
derived from the following shall be deducted from the tax base for the retail
classification:
1.Sales made directly to the United States
government or its departments or agencies by a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer.
2.Sales made directly to a manufacturer, modifier,
assembler or repairer if such sales are of any ingredient or component part of
products sold directly to the United States government or its departments or
agencies by the manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer.
3.Overhead materials or other tangible personal
property that is used in performing a contract between the United States
government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, including
property used in performing a subcontract with a government contractor who is a
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which title passes to the
government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
4.Sales of overhead materials or other tangible
personal property to a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer if the
gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from the property by the
manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer will be exempt under paragraph 3
of this subsection.
J.There shall be deducted from the tax base fifty
percent of the gross proceeds or gross income from any sale of tangible
personal property made directly to the United States government or its
departments or agencies that is not deducted under subsection I of this
section.
K.The department shall require every person
claiming a deduction provided by subsection I or J of this section to file on
forms prescribed by the department at such times as the department directs a
sworn statement disclosing the name of the purchaser and the exact amount of
sales on which the exclusion or deduction is claimed.
L.In computing the tax base, gross proceeds of
sales or gross income does not include:
1.A manufacturer's cash rebate on the sales price
of a motor vehicle if the buyer assigns the buyer's right in the rebate to the
retailer.
2.The waste tire disposal fee imposed pursuant to
section 441302.
M.There shall be deducted from the tax base the
amount received from sales of solar energy devices.The retailer
shall register with the department as a solar energy retailer.By
registering, the retailer acknowledges that it will make its books and records
relating to sales of solar energy devices available to the department for
examination.
N.In computing the tax base in the case of the sale
or transfer of wireless telecommunications equipment as an inducement to a
customer to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications services
that are taxable under section 425064, gross proceeds of sales or gross
income does not include any sales commissions or other compensation received by
the retailer as a result of the customer entering into or continuing a contract
for the telecommunications services.
O.For the purposes of this section, a sale of
wireless telecommunications equipment to a person who holds the equipment for
sale or transfer to a customer as an inducement to enter into or continue a
contract for telecommunications services that are taxable under section 425064
is considered to be a sale for resale in the regular course of business.
P.Retail sales of prepaid calling cards or prepaid
authorization numbers for telecommunications services, including sales of
reauthorization of a prepaid card or authorization number, are subject to tax
under this section.
Q.For the purposes of this section, the diversion
of gas from a pipeline by a person engaged in the business of:
1.Operating a natural or artificial gas pipeline,
for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment to pressurize the
pipeline, is not a sale of the gas to the operator of the pipeline.
2.Converting natural gas into liquefied natural
gas, for the sole purpose of fueling compressor equipment used in the
conversion process, is not a sale of gas to the operator of the compressor
equipment.
R.For the purposes of this section, the transfer of
title or possession of coal from an owner or operator of a power plant to a
person in the business of refining coal is not a sale of coal if both of the
following apply:
1.The transfer of title or possession of the coal
is for the purpose of refining the coal.
2.The title or possession of the coal is
transferred back to the owner or operator of the power plant after completion
of the coal refining process.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"coal refining process"
means the application of a coal additive system that aids in the reduction of
power plant emissions during the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue
gas.
S.If a seller is entitled to a deduction pursuant
to subsection B, paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section, the department
may require the purchaser to establish that the requirements of subsection B,
paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied. If the
purchaser cannot establish that the requirements of subsection B, paragraph 15,
subdivision (b) of this section have been satisfied, the purchaser is liable in
an amount equal to any tax, penalty and interest which that
the seller would have been required to pay under article 1 of
this chapter if the seller had not made a deduction pursuant to subsection B,
paragraph 15, subdivision (b) of this section. Payment of the amount under
this subsection exempts the purchaser from liability for any tax imposed under
article 4 of this chapter and related to the tangible personal property
purchased. The amount shall be treated as transaction privilege tax to the
purchaser and as tax revenues collected from the seller to designate the
distribution base pursuant to section 425029.
T.For the purposes of section 425032.01, the
department shall separately account for revenues collected under the retail
classification from businesses selling tangible personal property at retail:
1.On the premises of a multipurpose facility that
is owned, leased or operated by the tourism and sports authority pursuant to
title 5, chapter8.
2.At professional football contests that are held
in a stadium located on the campus of an institution under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents.
U.In computing the tax base for the sale of a motor
vehicle to a nonresident of this state, if the purchaser's state of residence
allows a corresponding use tax exemption to the tax imposed by article 1 of
this chapter and the rate of the tax in the purchaser's state of residence is
lower than the rate prescribed in article 1 of this chapter or if the
purchaser's state of residence does not impose an excise tax, and the
nonresident has secured a special ninety day nonresident registration permit
for the vehicle as prescribed by sections 282154 and 282154.01,
there shall be deducted from the tax base a portion of the gross proceeds or
gross income from the sale so that the amount of transaction privilege tax that
is paid in this state is equal to the excise tax that is imposed by the
purchaser's state of residence on the nonexempt sale or use of the motor
vehicle.
V.For the purposes of this section:
1."Aircraft" includes:
(a)An airplane flight simulator that is approved by
the federal aviation administration for use as a phase II or higher flight
simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of Federal Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal property that is permanently
affixed or attached as a component part of an aircraft that is owned or
operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or property.
2."Other accessories and related
equipment" includes aircraft accessories and equipment such as ground
service equipment that physically contact aircraft at some point during the
overall carrier operation.
3."Selling at retail" means a sale for
any purpose other than for resale in the regular course of business in the form
of tangible personal property, but transfer of possession, lease and rental as
used in the definition of sale mean only such transactions as are found on
investigation to be in lieu of sales as defined without the words lease or
rental.
W.For the purposes of subsection I of this section:
1."Assembler" means a person who unites
or combines products, wares or articles of manufacture so as to produce a
change in form or substance without changing or altering the component parts.
2."Manufacturer" means a person who is
principally engaged in the fabrication, production or manufacture of products,
wares or articles for use from raw or prepared materials, imparting to those
materials new forms, qualities, properties and combinations.
3."Modifier" means a person who reworks,
changes or adds to products, wares or articles of manufacture.
4."Overhead materials" means tangible personal
property, the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from that would
otherwise be included in the retail classification, and that are used or
consumed in the performance of a contract, the cost of which is charged to an
overhead expense account and allocated to various contracts based on generally
accepted accounting principles and consistent with government contract
accounting standards.
5."Repairer" means a person who restores
or renews products, wares or articles of manufacture.
6."Subcontract" means an agreement
between a contractor and any person who is not an employee of the contractor
for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in part, are necessary
to the performance of one or more government contracts, or under which any
portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more government contracts
is performed, undertaken or assumed and that includes provisions causing title
to overhead materials or other tangible personal property used in the
performance of the subcontract to pass to the government or that includes
provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a government contract
into the subcontract. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
42-5159, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5159.Exemptions
A.The
tax levied by this article does not apply to the storage, use or consumption in
this state of the following described tangible personal property:
1.Tangible personal
property sold in this state, the gross receipts from the sale of which are
included in the measure of the tax imposed by articles 1 and 2 of this chapter.
2.Tangible personal
property, the sale or use
of which has already been subjected to an excise tax at a rate equal to or
exceeding the tax imposed by this article under the laws of another state of
the United States. If the excise tax imposed by the other state is at a rate
less than the tax imposed by this article, the tax imposed by this article is
reduced by the amount of the tax already imposed by the other state.
3.Tangible personal
property, the storage, use or consumption of which the constitution or laws of
the United States prohibit this state from taxing or to the extent that the
rate or imposition of tax is unconstitutional under the laws of the United
States.
4.Tangible personal
property that directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component part
of any manufactured, fabricated or processed article, substance or commodity
for sale in the regular course of business.
5.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under title 28, chapter 16, article 1, use fuel that is sold
to or used by a person holding a valid single trip use fuel tax permit issued
under section 285739, aviation fuel, the sales, distribution or use of
which in this state is subject to the tax imposed under section 288344,
and jet fuel, the sales, distribution or use of which in this state is subject
to the tax imposed under article 8 of this chapter.
6.Tangible personal
property brought into this state by an individual who was a nonresident at the
time the property was purchased for storage, use or consumption by the individual
if the first actual use or consumption of the property was outside this state,
unless the property is used in conducting a business in this state.
7.Purchases of implants
used as growth promotants and injectable medicines, not already exempt under
paragraph 16 of this subsection, for livestock and poultry owned by, or in
possession of, persons who are engaged in producing livestock, poultry, or
livestock or poultry products, or who are engaged in feeding livestock or
poultry commercially. For the purposes of this paragraph, "poultry"
includes ratites.
8.Livestock, poultry,
supplies, feed, salts, vitamins and other additives for use or consumption in
the businesses of farming, ranching and feeding livestock or poultry, not
including fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides.For the purposes
of this paragraph, "poultry" includes ratites.
9.Seeds, seedlings,
roots, bulbs, cuttings and other propagative material for use in commercially
producing agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops in
this state.
10.Tangible personal
property not exceeding two hundred dollars in any one month purchased by an
individual at retail outside the continental limits of the United States for
the individual's own personal use and enjoyment.
11.Advertising
supplements that are intended for sale with newspapers published in this state
and that have already been subjected to an excise tax under the laws of another
state in the United States that equals or exceeds the tax imposed by this
article.
12.Materials that are
purchased by or for publicly funded libraries including school district
libraries, charter school libraries, community college libraries, state
university libraries or federal, state, county or municipal libraries for use
by the public as follows:
(a)Printed or
photographic materials, beginning August 7, 1985.
(b)Electronic or
digital media materials, beginning July 17, 1994.
13.Tangible personal
property purchased by:
(a)A hospital organized
and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(b)A hospital operated
by this state or a political subdivision of this state.
(c)A licensed nursing
care institution or a licensed residential care institution or a residential
care facility operated in conjunction with a licensed nursing care institution
or a licensed kidney dialysis center, which provides medical services, nursing
services or health related services and is not used or held for profit.
(d)A qualifying health
care organization, as defined in section 425001, if the tangible
personal property is used by the organization solely to provide health and
medical related educational and charitable services.
(e)A qualifying health
care organization as defined in section 425001 if the organization is
dedicated to providing educational, therapeutic, rehabilitative and family
medical education training for blind and visually impaired children and
children with multiple disabilities from the time of birth to age twentyone.
(f)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
United States internal revenue code and that engages in and uses such property
exclusively in programs for persons with mental or physical disabilities if the
programs are exclusively for training, job placement, rehabilitation or
testing.
(g)A person that is
subject to tax under this chapter by reason of being engaged in business
classified under section 425075, or a subcontractor working under the
control of a person that is engaged in business classified under section 425075,
if the tangible personal property is any of the following:
(i)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into a structure, project, development or improvement
in fulfillment of a contract.
(ii)Incorporated or
fabricated by the person into any project described in section 425075,
subsection O.
(iii)Used in
environmental response or remediation activities under section 425075,
subsection B, paragraph 6.
(h)A person that is not
subject to tax under section 425075 and that has been provided a copy of
a certificate described in section 425009, subsection L, if the property
purchased is incorporated or fabricated by the person into the real property,
structure, project, development or improvement described in the certificate.
(i)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code if the property is purchased from the parent or an affiliate
organization that is located outside this state.
(j)A qualifying
community health center as defined in section 425001.
(k)A nonprofit
charitable organization that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals to the needy and indigent
on a continuing basis at no cost.
(l)A person engaged in
business under the transient lodging classification if the property is a
personal hygiene item or articles used by human beings for food, drink or
condiment, except alcoholic beverages, which are furnished without additional
charge to and intended to be consumed by the transient during the transient's
occupancy.
(m)For taxable periods
beginning from and after June 30, 2001, a nonprofit charitable organization
that has qualified under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and
that provides residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo
years of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy, if the
tangible personal property is used by the organization solely to provide
residential apartment housing for low income persons over sixtytwo years
of age in a facility that qualifies for a federal housing subsidy.
(n)A qualifying health
sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
(o)A person
representing or working on behalf of any person described in subdivision (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (j), (k), (m) or (n) of this paragraph, if the
tangible personal property is incorporated or fabricated into a project
described in section 425075, subsection O.
14.Commodities, as
defined by title 7 United States Code section 2, that are consigned for resale
in a warehouse in this state in or from which the commodity is deliverable on a
contract for future delivery subject to the rules of a commodity market
regulated by the United States commodity futures trading commission.
15.Tangible personal
property sold by:
(a)Any nonprofit
organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes and
recognized by the United States internal revenue service under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
(b)A nonprofit
organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or
501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization is associated with a
major league baseball team or a national touring professional golfing
association and no part of the organization's net earnings inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(c)A nonprofit organization
that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6),
501(c)(7) or 501(c)(8) of the internal revenue code if the organization
sponsors or operates a rodeo featuring primarily farm and ranch animals and no
part of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
16.Drugs and medical
oxygen, including delivery hose, mask or tent, regulator and tank, on the
prescription of a member of the medical, dental or veterinarian profession who
is licensed by law to administer such substances.
17.Prosthetic
appliances, as defined in section 23501, prescribed or recommended by a
person who is licensed, registered or otherwise professionally credentialed as
a physician, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, naturopath, homeopath, nurse or
optometrist.
18.Prescription
eyeglasses and contact lenses.
19.Insulin, insulin
syringes and glucose test strips.
20.Hearing aids as
defined in section 361901.
21.Durable medical
equipment that has a centers for medicare and medicaid services common
procedure code, is designated reimbursable by medicare, is prescribed by a
person who is licensed under title 32, chapter 7, 13, 17 or 29, can withstand
repeated use, is primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose, is
generally not useful to a person in the absence of illness or injury and is
appropriate for use in the home.
22.Food, as provided in
and subject to the conditions of article 3 of this chapter and section 425074.
23.Items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786).
24.Food and drink
provided without monetary charge by a taxpayer that is subject to section 425074
to its employees for their own consumption on the premises during the
employees' hours of employment.
25.Tangible personal
property that is used or consumed in a business subject to section 425074
for human food, drink or condiment, whether simple, mixed or compounded.
26.Food, drink or
condiment and accessory tangible personal property that are acquired for use by
or provided to a school district or charter school if they are to be either
served or prepared and served to persons for consumption on the premises of a
public school in the school district or on the premises of the charter school
during school hours.
27.Lottery tickets or
shares purchased pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
28.Textbooks, sold by a
bookstore, that are required by any state university or community college.
29.Magazines, other
periodicals or other publications produced by this state to encourage tourist
travel.
30.Paper machine
clothing, such as forming fabrics and dryer felts, purchased by a paper
manufacturer and directly used or consumed in paper manufacturing.
31.Coal, petroleum,
coke, natural gas, virgin fuel oil and electricity purchased by a qualified
environmental technology manufacturer, producer or processor as defined in
section 411514.02 and directly used or consumed in the generation or
provision of onsite power or energy solely for environmental technology
manufacturing, producing or processing or environmental
protection.This paragraph shall apply for twenty full consecutive
calendar or fiscal years from the date the first paper manufacturing machine is
placed in service. In the case of an environmental technology manufacturer,
producer or processor who does not manufacture paper, the time period shall
begin with the date the first manufacturing, processing or production equipment
is placed in service.
32.Motor vehicles that
are removed from inventory by a motor vehicle dealer as defined in section 284301
and that are provided to:
(a)Charitable or
educational institutions that are exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3)
of the internal revenue code.
(b)Public educational
institutions.
(c)State universities
or affiliated organizations of a state university if no part of the
organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
33.Natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
34.Machinery,
equipment, technology or related supplies that are only useful to assist a
person with a physical disability as defined in section 46191 or a
person who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 or
has a head injury as defined in section 413201 to be more independent
and functional.
35.Liquid, solid or
gaseous chemicals used in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, mining,
refining, metallurgical operations, research and development and, beginning on
January 1, 1999, printing, if using or consuming the chemicals, alone or as
part of an integrated system of chemicals, involves direct contact with the
materials from which the product is produced for the purpose of causing or
permitting a chemical or physical change to occur in the materials as part of
the production process. This paragraph does not include chemicals that are
used or consumed in activities such as packaging, storage or transportation but
does not affect any exemption for such chemicals that is otherwise provided by
this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, "printing" means a
commercial printing operation and includes job printing, engraving, embossing,
copying and bookbinding.
36.Food, drink and
condiment purchased for consumption within the premises of any prison, jail or
other institution under the jurisdiction of the state department of
corrections, the department of public safety, the department of juvenile
corrections or a county sheriff.
37.A motor vehicle and
any repair and replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part
of such motor vehicle sold to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee
prescribed in title 28, chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the
business of leasing or renting such property.
38.Tangible personal
property that is or directly enters into and becomes an ingredient or component
part of cards used as prescription plan identification cards.
39.Overhead materials
or other tangible personal property that is used in performing a contract
between the United States government and a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or
repairer, including property used in performing a subcontract with a government
contractor who is a manufacturer, modifier, assembler or repairer, to which
title passes to the government under the terms of the contract or subcontract.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Overhead
materials" means tangible personal property, the gross proceeds of sales
or gross income derived from which would otherwise be included in the retail
classification, that is used or consumed in the performance of a contract, the
cost of which is charged to an overhead expense account and allocated to
various contracts based on generally accepted accounting principles and
consistent with government contract accounting standards.
(b)"Subcontract"
means an agreement between a contractor and any person who is not an employee
of the contractor for furnishing of supplies or services that, in whole or in
part, are necessary to the performance of one or more government contracts, or
under which any portion of the contractor's obligation under one or more
government contracts is performed, undertaken or assumed, and that includes
provisions causing title to overhead materials or other tangible personal
property used in the performance of the subcontract to pass to the government
or that includes provisions incorporating such title passing clauses in a
government contract into the subcontract.
40.Through December 31,
1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a personal property
liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061.From
and after December 31, 1994, tangible personal property sold pursuant to a
personal property liquidation transaction, as defined in section 425061,
if the gross proceeds of the sales were included in the measure of the tax
imposed by article 1 of this chapter or if the personal property liquidation
was a casual activity or transaction.
41.Wireless
telecommunications equipment that is held for sale or transfer to a customer as
an inducement to enter into or continue a contract for telecommunications
services that are taxable under section 425064.
42.Alternative fuel, as
defined in section 1215, purchased by a used oil fuel burner who has
received a permit to burn used oil or used oil fuel under section 49426
or 49480.
43.Tangible personal
property purchased by a commercial airline and consisting of food, beverages
and condiments and accessories used for serving the food and beverages, if
those items are to be provided without additional charge to passengers for
consumption in flight.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"commercial airline" means a person holding a federal certificate of
public convenience and necessity or foreign air carrier permit for air
transportation to transport persons, property or United States mail in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
44.Alternative fuel
vehicles if the vehicle was manufactured as a diesel fuel vehicle and converted
to operate on alternative fuel and equipment that is installed in a
conventional diesel fuel motor vehicle to convert the vehicle to operate on an
alternative fuel, as defined in section 1215.
45.Gas diverted from a
pipeline, by a person engaged in the business of:
(a)Operating a natural
or artificial gas pipeline, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment that pressurizes the pipeline.
(b)Converting natural
gas into liquefied natural gas, and used or consumed for the sole purpose of
fueling compressor equipment used in the conversion process.
46.Tangible personal
property that is excluded, exempt or deductible from transaction privilege tax
pursuant to section 425063.
47.Tangible personal
property purchased to be incorporated or installed as part of environmental response
or remediation activities under section 425075, subsection B, paragraph
6.
48.Tangible personal
property sold by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation under
section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if the organization produces,
organizes or promotes cultural or civic related festivals or events and no part
of the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
49.Prepared food, drink
or condiment donated by a restaurant as classified in section 425074,
subsection A to a nonprofit charitable organization that has qualified under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that regularly serves meals
to the needy and indigent on a continuing basis at no cost.
50.Application services
that are designed to assess or test student learning or to promote curriculum
design or enhancement purchased by or for any school district, charter school,
community college or state university. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Application
services" means software applications provided remotely using hypertext
transfer protocol or another network protocol.
(b)"Curriculum
design or enhancement" means planning, implementing or reporting on
courses of study, lessons, assignments or other learning activities.
51.Motor vehicle fuel
and use fuel to a qualified business under section 411516 for off-road
use in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products
removed from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
52.Repair parts
installed in equipment used directly by a qualified business under section 411516
in harvesting, processing or transporting qualifying forest products removed
from qualifying projects as defined in section 411516.
53.Renewable energy
credits or any other unit created to track energy derived from renewable energy
resources. For the purposes of this paragraph, "renewable energy
credit" means a unit created administratively by the corporation
commission or governing body of a public power entity to track kilowatt hours
of electricity derived from a renewable energy resource or the kilowatt hour
equivalent of conventional energy resources displaced by distributed renewable
energy resources.
54.Computer data center
equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant of
the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner, operator or
qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use in a
computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority under
section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of purchase,
the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to the retailer
its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519 and that
establishes its qualification for the deduction. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "computer data center", "computer data center
equipment", "qualification period" and "qualified
colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in section 411519.
55.Coal acquired from
an owner or operator of a power plant by a person who is responsible for
refining coal if both of the following apply:
(a)The transfer of
title or possession of the coal is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or
possession of the coal is transferred back to the owner or operator of the
power plant after completion of the coal refining process. For the purposes of
this subdivision, "coal refining process" means the application of a
coal additive system that aids the reduction of power plant emissions during
the combustion of coal and the treatment of flue gas.
56.Tangible personal
property incorporated or fabricated into a project described in section 425075,
subsection O, that is located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian
reservation for which the owner, as defined in section 425075, of the
project is an Indian tribe or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated
Indian" means an individual native American Indian who is duly registered
on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian
reservation was established.
(b)"Indian
reservation" means all lands that are within the limits of areas set aside
by the United States for the exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by
treaty, law or executive order and that are recognized as Indian reservations
by the United States department of the interior.
(c)"Indian
tribe" means any organized nation, tribe, band or community that is
recognized as an Indian tribe by the United States department of the interior
and includes any entity formed under the laws of the Indian tribe.
B.In addition to the
exemptions allowed by subsection A of this section, the following categories of
tangible personal property are also exempt:
1.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job
printing, refining or metallurgical operations. The terms
"manufacturing", "processing", "fabricating",
"job printing", "refining" and "metallurgical" as
used in this paragraph refer to and include those operations commonly
understood within their ordinary meaning. "Metallurgical operations"
includes leaching, milling, precipitating, smelting and refining.
2.Machinery, or
equipment, used directly in the process of extracting ores or minerals from the
earth for commercial purposes, including equipment required to prepare the
materials for extraction and handling, loading or transporting such extracted
material to the surface."Mining" includes underground,
surface and open pit operations for extracting ores and minerals.
3.Tangible personal
property sold to persons engaged in business classified under the
telecommunications classification under section 425064, including a
person representing or working on behalf of such a person in a manner described
in section 425075, subsection O, and consisting of central office
switching equipment, switchboards, private branch exchange equipment, microwave
radio equipment and carrier equipment including optical fiber, coaxial cable
and other transmission media that are components of carrier systems.
4.Machinery, equipment
or transmission lines used directly in producing or transmitting electrical
power, but not including distribution. Transformers and control equipment used
at transmission substation sites constitute equipment used in producing or
transmitting electrical power.
5.Neat animals, horses,
asses, sheep, ratites, swine or goats used or to be used as breeding or
production stock, including sales of breedings or ownership shares in such
animals used for breeding or production.
6.Pipes or valves four
inches in diameter or larger used to transport oil, natural gas, artificial
gas, water or coal slurry, including compressor units, regulators, machinery
and equipment, fittings, seals and any other part that is used in operating the
pipes or valves.
7.Aircraft,
navigational and communication instruments and other accessories and related
equipment sold to:
(a)A person:
(i)Holding,
or exempted by federal law from obtaining, a federal certificate
of public convenience and necessity.
, a supplemental air carrier certificate

(ii)that is
Certificated or licensed under federal aviation regulations (14
Code of Federal Regulations part 121) as
a scheduled or unscheduled carrier of persons or property for hire for use as
or in conjunction with or becoming part of an aircraft to be used to transport
persons or property for hire in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
or 
(iii)Holding
a foreign air carrier permit for air transportation for use as or in
conjunction with or becoming a part of aircraft to be used to transport
persons, property or United States mail in intrastate, interstate or foreign
commerce.
(iv)Operating
an aircraft in any manner for compensation or hire including as an air carrier,
a foreign air carrier or a commercial operator or under a restricted category,
within the meaning of 14 Code of Federal Regulations, regardless of whether the
operation or aircraft is regulated or certified under part 91, 119, 121, 133,
135, 136 or 137, or another part of 14 Code of Federal Regulations.
(v)Acquiring
an aircraft for the purpose of selling, leasing or otherwise transferring
operational control, within the meaning of Federal Aviation Administration
Operations Specification A008, or its successor, of the aircraft, instruments
or accessories to one or more persons described in item (i),
(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this subdivision.
(b)Any foreign
government. , or sold to 
(c)Persons who are not
residents of this state and who will not use such property in this state other
than in removing such property from this state.This subdivision also applies to corporations that are not
incorporated in this state, regardless of maintaining a place of business in
this state, if the principal corporate office is located outside this state and
the property will not be used in this state other than in removing the property
from this state.
8.Machinery, tools,
equipment and related supplies used or consumed directly in repairing,
remodeling or maintaining aircraft, aircraft engines or aircraft component
parts by or on behalf of a certificated or licensed carrier of persons or
property.
9.Rolling stock, rails,
ties and signal control equipment used directly to transport persons or
property.
10.Machinery or
equipment used directly to drill for oil or gas or used directly in the process
of extracting oil or gas from the earth for commercial purposes.
11.Buses or other urban
mass transit vehicles that are used directly to transport persons or property
for hire or pursuant to a governmentally adopted and controlled urban mass
transportation program and that are sold to bus companies holding a federal
certificate of convenience and necessity or operated by any city, town or other
governmental entity or by any person contracting with such governmental entity
as part of a governmentally adopted and controlled program to provide urban
mass transportation.
12.Groundwater
measuring devices required under section 45604.
13.New machinery and
equipment consisting of tractors, tractordrawn implements, selfpowered
implements, machinery and equipment necessary for extracting milk, and
machinery and equipment necessary for cooling milk and livestock, and drip
irrigation lines not already exempt under paragraph 6 of this subsection and
that are used for commercial production of agricultural, horticultural,
viticultural and floricultural crops and products in this state.For
the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"New machinery
and equipment" means machinery or equipment that has never been sold at
retail except pursuant to leases or rentals that do not total two years or
more.
(b)"Selfpowered
implements" includes machinery and equipment that are electricpowered.
14.Machinery or equipment
used in research and development. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"research and development" means basic and applied research in the
sciences and engineering, and designing, developing or testing prototypes,
processes or new products, including research and development of computer
software that is embedded in or an integral part of the prototype or new
product or that is required for machinery or equipment otherwise exempt under
this section to function effectively. Research and development do not include
manufacturing quality control, routine consumer product testing, market
research, sales promotion, sales service, research in social sciences or
psychology, computer software research that is not included in the definition
of research and development, or other nontechnological activities or technical
services.
15.Tangible personal
property that is used by either of the following to receive, store, convert,
produce, generate, decode, encode, control or transmit telecommunications
information:
(a)Any direct broadcast
satellite television or data transmission service that operates pursuant to 47
Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(b)Any satellite
television or data transmission facility, if both of the following conditions
are met:
(i)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by the facility during
the test period were transmitted to or on behalf of one or more direct
broadcast satellite television or data transmission services that operate
pursuant to 47 Code of Federal Regulations part 25.
(ii)Over twothirds
of the transmissions, measured in megabytes, transmitted by or on behalf of
those direct broadcast television or data transmission services during the test
period were transmitted by the facility to or on behalf of those services.
For the purposes of subdivision (b) of this paragraph,
"test period" means the three hundred sixtyfive day period
beginning on the later of the date on which the tangible personal property is
purchased or the date on which the direct broadcast satellite television or
data transmission service first transmits information to its customers.
16.Clean rooms that are used for manufacturing,
processing, fabrication or research and development, as defined in paragraph 14
of this subsection, of semiconductor products. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "clean room" means all property that comprises or creates
an environment where humidity, temperature, particulate matter and
contamination are precisely controlled within specified parameters, without
regard to whether the property is actually contained within that environment or
whether any of the property is affixed to or incorporated into real
property.Clean room:
(a)Includes the
integrated systems, fixtures, piping, movable partitions, lighting and all
property that is necessary or adapted to reduce contamination or to control
airflow, temperature, humidity, chemical purity or other environmental
conditions or manufacturing tolerances, as well as the production machinery and
equipment operating in conjunction with the clean room environment.
(b)Does not include the
building or other permanent, nonremovable component of the building that houses
the clean room environment.
17.Machinery and
equipment that are used directly in the feeding of poultry, the environmental
control of housing for poultry, the movement of eggs within a production and
packaging facility or the sorting or cooling of eggs.This exemption
does not apply to vehicles used for transporting eggs.
18.Machinery or
equipment, including related structural components, that is employed in
connection with manufacturing, processing, fabricating, job printing, refining,
mining, natural gas pipelines, metallurgical operations, telecommunications,
producing or transmitting electricity or research and development and that is
used directly to meet or exceed rules or regulations adopted by the federal
energy regulatory commission, the United States environmental protection
agency, the United States nuclear regulatory commission, the Arizona department
of environmental quality or a political subdivision of this state to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce land, water or air pollution.
19.Machinery and
equipment that are used in the commercial production of livestock, livestock
products or agricultural, horticultural, viticultural or floricultural crops or
products in this state and that are used directly and primarily to prevent,
monitor, control or reduce air, water or land pollution.
20.Machinery or
equipment that enables a television station to originate and broadcast or to
receive and broadcast digital television signals and that was purchased to
facilitate compliance with the telecommunications act of 1996 (P.L. 104104;
110 Stat. 56; 47 United States Code section 336) and the federal communications
commission order issued April 21, 1997 (47 Code of Federal Regulations part
73). This paragraph does not exempt any of the following:
(a)Repair or
replacement parts purchased for the machinery or equipment described in this
paragraph.
(b)Machinery or
equipment purchased to replace machinery or equipment for which an exemption
was previously claimed and taken under this paragraph.
(c)Any machinery or
equipment purchased after the television station has ceased analog broadcasting,
or purchased after November 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.
21.Qualifying equipment
that is purchased from and after June 30, 2004 through June 30, 2024 by a
qualified business under section 411516 for harvesting or processing
qualifying forest products removed from qualifying projects as defined in
section 411516. To qualify for this exemption, the qualified business
must obtain and present its certification from the Arizona commerce authority
at the time of purchase.
C.The exemptions provided
by subsection B of this section do not include:
1.Expendable
materials.For the purposes of this paragraph, expendable materials
do not include any of the categories of tangible personal property specified in
subsection B of this section regardless of the cost or useful life of that
property.
2.Janitorial equipment
and hand tools.
3.Office equipment,
furniture and supplies.
4.Tangible personal
property used in selling or distributing activities, other than the
telecommunications transmissions described in subsection B, paragraph 15 of
this section.
5.Motor vehicles
required to be licensed by this state, except buses or other urban mass transit
vehicles specifically exempted pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 11 of this
section, without regard to the use of such motor vehicles.
6.Shops, buildings,
docks, depots and all other materials of whatever kind or character not
specifically included as exempt.
7.Motors and pumps used
in drip irrigation systems.
8.Machinery and
equipment or tangible personal property used by a contractor in the performance
of a contract.
D.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Revenues received
from sales of ancillary services, electric distribution services, electric
generation services, electric transmission services and other services related
to providing electricity to a retail electric customer who is located outside
this state for use outside this state if the electricity is delivered to a
point of sale outside this state.
2.Revenues received
from providing electricity, including ancillary services, electric distribution
services, electric generation services, electric transmission services and
other services related to providing electricity with respect to which the
transaction privilege tax imposed under section 425063 has been paid.
E.The tax levied by
this article does not apply to the purchase of solar energy devices from a
retailer that is registered with the department as a solar energy retailer or a
solar energy contractor.
F.The following shall
be deducted in computing the purchase price of electricity by a retail electric
customer from a utility business:
1.Fees charged by a
municipally owned utility to persons constructing residential, commercial or
industrial developments or connecting residential, commercial or industrial
developments to a municipal utility system or systems if the fees are
segregated and used only for capital expansion, system enlargement or debt
service of the utility system or systems.
2.Reimbursement or
contribution compensation to any person or persons owning a utility system for
property and equipment installed to provide utility access to, on or across the
land of an actual utility consumer if the property and equipment become the
property of the utility.This deduction shall not exceed the value
of such property and equipment.
G.The
tax levied by this article does not apply to the purchase price of electricity
or natural gas by:
1.A
business that is principally engaged in manufacturing or smelting operations
and that uses at least fiftyone percent of the electricity or natural
gas in the manufacturing or smelting operations.This paragraph does
not apply to gas transportation services.For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)"Gas
transportation services" means the services of transporting natural gas to
a natural gas customer or to a natural gas distribution facility if the natural
gas was purchased from a supplier other than the utility.
(b)"Manufacturing"
means the performance as a business of an integrated series of operations that
places tangible personal property in a form, composition or character different
from that in which it was acquired and transforms it into a different product
with a distinctive name, character or use.Manufacturing does not
include processing, fabricating, job printing, mining, generating electricity
or operating a restaurant.
(c)"Principally
engaged" means at least fifty-one percent of the business is a
manufacturing or smelting operation.
(d)"Smelting"
means to melt or fuse a metalliferous mineral, often with an accompanying
chemical change, usually to separate the metal.
2.A business that
operates an international operations center in this state and that is certified
by the Arizona commerce authority pursuant to section 411520.
H.For the purposes of
subsection B of this section:
1."Aircraft"
includes:
(a)An airplane flight
simulator that is approved by the federal aviation administration for use as a
phase II or higher flight simulator under appendix H, 14 Code of Federal
Regulations part 121.
(b)Tangible personal
property that is permanently affixed or attached as a component part of an
aircraft that is owned or operated by a certificated or licensed carrier of
persons or property.
2."Other
accessories and related equipment" includes aircraft accessories and
equipment such as ground service equipment that physically contact aircraft at
some point during the overall carrier operation.
I.For the purposes of
subsection D of this section, "ancillary services", "electric
distribution service", "electric generation service",
"electric transmission service" and "other services" have
the same meanings prescribed in section 425063. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Legislative intent
A.In
amending section 42-5061, subsection B, paragraph 7 and section 42-5159,
subsection B, paragraph 7, Arizona Revised Statutes, as provided by this act,
the legislature intends:
1.To
clarify its original intent in enacting the original versions and subsequent
amendments of those provisions that transactions are not subject to tax under
title 42, chapter 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, if they have as their objective
the acquisition for placing, or the placing, of an aircraft or navigational and
communication instruments and other accessories and related equipment under the
operation control for the purpose of placing the aircraft or instruments, accessories
or equipment in service for the purpose of operating an aircraft for
compensation or hire in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce.
2.That
the benefit of those exemptions from transaction privilege tax and from use tax
should be extended to all classes of commercial aviation.
B.To
the extent that this intent was not achieved by Laws 2000, chapter 401, this
act effectuates that intent and cures any resulting unintended consequences
retroactively to from and after May 31, 1998.
Sec.4.Retroactivity; refund
A.This act applies
retroactively to taxable periods beginning from and after May 31, 1998.
B.Any
claim for refund of tax based on the retroactive application of this act shall
be considered timely filed under section 42-1106, Arizona Revised Statutes, if
the claim is filed with department of revenue on or before December 31, 2016
pursuant to section 42-1118, Arizona Revised Statutes. A failure to file a
claim on or before December 31, 2016 constitutes a waiver of the claim for
refund under this section.
C.The
aggregate amount of the refund under this section is one thousand dollars. If
the aggregate amount of claims that are determined to be valid exceeds one
thousand dollars, the department of revenue shall reduce each claim
proportionately so the aggregate amount of the refund is not more than one
thousand dollars.
D.Any
claim for refund that is not based on the retroactive application of this act
is not subject to subsections B and C of this section.
E.This
section does not extend the statute of limitations for assessment or refund
beyond the period that is open under sections 42-1104 and 42-1106, Arizona
Revised Statutes.

