







REFERENCE TITLE: health regulatory boards; transfer; DHS







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2501









Introduced by
Representative
  Carter





AN ACT

Relating to the
transfer of health profession regulatory boards to the department of health
services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Health boards; transfer to department of health services;
schedule; definition
A.The department of health services succeeds to the
administrative authority of the following health profession regulatory boards
in the following fiscal years:
1.In fiscal year 20162017:
(a)Acupuncture board of examiners.
(b)State board of dispensing opticians.
(c)Board of homeopathic and integrated medicine
examiners.
(d)Board of occupational therapy examiners.
(e)Board of respiratory care examiners.
2.In fiscal year 20172018:
(a)State board of podiatry examiners.
(b)Naturopathic physicians medical board.
(c)State board of optometry.
(d)Board of physical therapy.
(e)State board of psychologist examiners.
(f)State board of chiropractic examiners.
(g)Medical radiologic technology board of
examiners.
3.In fiscal year 20182019:
(a)Arizona board of osteopathic examiners in
medicine and surgery.
(b)State board of dental examiners.
(c)Board of behavioral health examiners.
4.In fiscal year 20192020:
(a)Arizona regulatory board of physician
assistants.
(b)Arizona state board of nursing.
(c)Arizona medical board.
B.Beginning on the effective date of this section,
a health profession regulatory board may not enter into any new contract or
renew any existing contract without the approval of the director of the
department of health services.
C.This act does not alter the effect of any actions
taken or impair the valid obligations of the health profession regulatory
boards prescribed in subsection A of this section before July 1 of the
respective fiscal year prescribed in subsection A of this section.
D.All administrative
matters and contracts, whether completed, pending or in process, of a health
profession regulatory board on July 1 in the respective fiscal year prescribed
in subsection A of this section are transferred to and retain the same status
with the department of health services.
E.All certificates,
licenses, registrations, permits and other indicia of qualification and
authority that were issued by a health profession regulatory board retain their
validity for the duration of their terms of validity as provided by law.
F.All tangible and intangible property and assets,
all obligations and all data and investigative findings of the health
profession regulatory boards are transferred to the department of health
services in the respective fiscal year prescribed in subsection A of this
section.
G.All personnel under the state personnel system
who are employed by a health profession regulatory board are transferred in the
respective fiscal year prescribed in subsection A of this section to comparable
positions and pay classifications in the department of health services.
H.For the purposes of this section, "health
profession regulatory board" means any board that issues a certificate,
license, permit or registration to a person pursuant to title 32, chapter 7, 8,
11, 13, 14, 15, 15.1, 16, 17, 19, 19.1, 25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35 or 39 Arizona
Revised Statutes.
Sec.2.Legislative intent
It is the intent of the legislature that this act will streamline
and modernize processes for health profession licensees and certificate holders
in this state, promote consistency in the regulation of health professionals
and promote administrative efficiencies while ensuring the protection of the
public's health and safety.
Sec.3.Conforming changes
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration by the legislature.

