







REFERENCE TITLE: local government bonds; ballot statement







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2570









Introduced by
Representative
  Allen J





AN ACT

Amending sections
9-526, 11-374, 15-491, 35-454, 48-146, 48-685, 48-707, 48806, 48-1037,
48-1409, 48-1612, 48-2442, 48-2751, 48-3094, 48-3190 and 484543, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to bond elections.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-526, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-526.Form of ballot
At the election the ballot shall contain the phrases "for the bonds" and "against
the bonds."To the right of and opposite each phrase shall be
placed a square approximately the size of squares placed opposite the names of
candidates on ballots.The voter shall indicate his vote "for
the bonds" or "against the bonds" by inserting the mark
"X" in the square opposite such phrase appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35454, subsection C. No other question, word or
figure need be printed on the ballot.The ballot need not be any
particular size, nor need sample ballots be printed, posted or
distributed.A number of ballots, exceeding by not less than ten per cent percent the number of registered voters whose
names appear on the precinct register of the precinct, town or city for which
printed, shall be printed and furnished each polling place. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-374, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-374.Ballots
At the election the ballot shall contain the words "for the bonds" and "against
the bonds" and to the right of and opposite each thereof shall be placed a
square approximately the size of the squares placed opposite the names of
candidates on ballots.The voter shall indicate his vote "for
the bonds" or "against the bonds" by inserting the mark
"X" in the square opposite such words appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35-454, subsection C. No other question, word or figure
need be printed on any ballot.The ballot shall not be of any
particular size, and sample ballots may or may not be printed, posted or
distributed.A number of ballots exceeding by not less than ten per cent percent the number of registered voters whose
names appear on the precinct register prepared for the precinct shall be
printed for and furnished to each polling place. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-491, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-491.Elections on school property; exceptions
A.The governing board of a school district may, and
on petition of fifteen per cent
percent of the school
electors as shown by the poll list at the last preceding annual school election
shall, call an election for the following purposes:
1.To locate or change the location of school
buildings.
2.To purchase or sell school sites or buildings or
sell school sites pursuant to section 15342 or to build school buildings,
but the authorization by vote of the school district shall not necessarily
specify the site to be purchased.
3.To decide whether the bonds of the school
district shall be issued and sold for the purpose of raising money for
purchasing or leasing school lots, for building or renovating school buildings,
for supplying school buildings with furniture, equipment and technology, for
improving school grounds, for purchasing pupil transportation vehicles or for
liquidating any indebtedness already incurred for such purposes. Bonds issued
for furniture, equipment and technology, other than fixtures, shall mature no
later than the July 1 that follows the fifth year after the bonds were issued.
A school district shall not issue class B bonds until the school district has
obligated in contract the entire proceeds of any class A bonds issued by the
school district. The total amount of class A and class B bonds issued by a
school district shall not exceed the debt limitations prescribed in article IX,
sections 8 and 8.1, Constitution of Arizona.
4.To lease for ten or more years, as lessor or as
lessee, school buildings or grounds. Approval by a majority of the school
district electors voting authorizes the governing board to negotiate for and
enter into a lease.The ballot shall list the school buildings or
grounds for which a lease is sought. If the governing board does not enter
into a lease of ten or more years of the school buildings or grounds listed on
the ballot within ten years of the date of the election and the board continues
to seek such a lease, the governing board shall call a special election to
reauthorize the board to negotiate for and to enter into a lease of ten or more
years.
5.To change the list of capital projects or the
purposes authorized by prior voter approval to issue bonds.
6.To extend from six to ten years the time period
to issue class B bonds authorized in 2009 or earlier. Elections pursuant to
this paragraph may not be held later than the sixth November after the election
approving the issuance of the bonds.
B.No petition shall be required for the holding of
the first election to be held in a joint common school district for any of the
purposes specified in subsection A of this section. The notice of election
required by section 15492 shall be published in each of the counties
that comprise the joint common school district. The certification of election
results required by section 15493 shall be made to the board of
supervisors of the jurisdictional county.
C.When the election is called to determine whether
or not bonds of the school district shall be issued and sold for the purposes
enumerated in the call for the election, the question shall be submitted to the
vote of the qualified electors of the school district as defined in section 15401
and subject to section 15402.
D.The governing board shall order the election to
be held in the manner prescribed in title 35, chapter 3, article 3. If a
petition for an election has been filed with the governing board as provided in
subsection A of this section, the board shall act on the petition within sixty
days by ordering the election to be held as provided in this subsection. If a
school district bond election is scheduled for the same date a school district
will hold an override election, the governing body shall deliver a copy of the
notice of election and ballot to the county school superintendent who shall
include the notice of election and ballot with the information report and
ballot prepared for the override election.Mailing of the
information required for both the override and bond elections shall constitute
compliance with the notice provisions of this section.
E.The elections to be held pursuant to this section
shall only be held on dates prescribed by section 16204, except that
elections held pursuant to this section to decide whether class B bonds shall
be issued, or any other obligation incurred that will require the assessment of
secondary property taxes, shall only be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday of November.
F.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section does
not apply to the sale of school property if the market value of the school
property is less than fifty thousand dollars.
G.Bond counsel fees, financial advisory fees,
printing costs and paying agent and registrar fees for bonds issued pursuant to
an election under this section shall be paid from either the amount authorized
by the qualified electors of the school district or current operating
funds.Bond election expenses shall be paid from current operating
funds only.
H.For any election conducted to decide whether
class B bonds will be issued pursuant to this section:
1.Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this
subsection, the ballot shall include the following statement:
The capital improvements that are proposed to be funded
through this bond issuance are to exceed the state standards and are in
addition to monies provided by the state.
___________ school district is proposing to issue class B
general obligation bonds totaling $__________ to fund capital improvements over
and above those funded by the state. Under the students first capital funding
system, _________ school district is entitled to state monies for new
construction and renovation of school buildings in accordance with state law.
The issuance of these
bonds will result in a property tax increase to pay debt service on the bonds.
For a home valued at $(median full cash value of residential
property in the district), the increased tax will cost
$__________ annually and $__________ over the term of the bonds.
2.For a school district that is a joint technical
education district, the ballot shall include the following statement:
___________, a joint technical education district, is
proposing to issue class B general obligation bonds totaling $___________ to
fund capital improvements at a campus owned or operated and maintained by the
joint technical education district.
The issuance of these
bonds will result in a property tax increase to pay debt service on the bonds.
For a home valued at $(median full cash value of residential
property in the district), the increased tax will cost
$__________ annually and $__________ over the term of the bonds.
3.The ballot shall contain the words "bond
approval, yes" and "bond approval, no", and the voter shall
signify the voter's desired choice.
4.The ballot shall also contain the phrase
"the issuance of these bonds will result in an annual levy of property
taxes sufficient to pay the debt on the bonds".
5.At least eightyfive days before the
election, the school district shall submit proposed ballot language to the
director of the Arizona legislative council. The director of the Arizona
legislative council shall review the proposed ballot language to determine whether
the proposed ballot language complies with this section.If the
director of the Arizona legislative council determines that the proposed ballot
language does not comply with this section, the director, within ten calendar
days of the receipt of the proposed ballot language, shall notify the school
district of the director's objections and the school district shall resubmit
revised ballot language to the director for approval.
6.No later than thirty-five days before a class B
bond election conducted pursuant to this section, the school district shall
mail a publicity pamphlet to each household that contains a qualified elector
in the school district. The publicity pamphlet shall contain, at a minimum,
the following information:
(a)An executive summary of the school district's
most recent capital plan submitted to the school facilities board.
(b)A complete list of each proposed capital
improvement that will be funded with the proceeds of the bonds and a
description of the proposed cost of each improvement, including a separate
aggregation of capital improvements for administrative purposes as defined by
the school facilities board.
(c)The tax rate associated with each of the
proposed capital improvements and the estimated cost of each capital improvement
for the owner of a single family home that is valued at one hundred thousand
dollars.
I.For any election conducted to decide whether
impact aid revenue bonds shall be issued pursuant to this section:
1.The ballot shall include the following statement:
The capital improvements that are proposed to be funded
through this bond issuance are to exceed the state standards and are in
addition to monies provided by the state.
__________ school district is proposing to issue impact aid
revenue bonds totaling $__________ to fund capital improvements over and above
those funded by the state. Under the students first capital funding system,
_________ school district is entitled to state monies for new construction and
renovation of school buildings in accordance with state law.
The issuance of these
bonds will result in a property tax increase to pay debt service on the bonds.
For a home valued at $(median full cash value of residential
property in the district), the increased tax will cost
$__________ annually and $__________ over the term of the bonds.
2.The ballot shall contain the words "bond
approval, yes" and "bond approval, no", and the voter shall
signify the voter's desired choice.
3.At least eightyfive
days before the election, the school district
shall submit proposed ballot language to the director of the legislative
council. The director of the legislative council shall review the proposed
ballot language to determine whether the proposed ballot language complies with
this section. If the director of the legislative council determines that the
proposed ballot language does not comply with this section, the director,
within ten calendar days of the receipt of the proposed ballot language, shall
notify the school district of the director's objections and the school district
shall resubmit revised ballot language to the director for approval.
4.No later than thirty-five days before an impact
aid revenue bond election conducted pursuant to this section, the school
district shall mail a publicity pamphlet to each household that contains a
qualified elector in the school district. The publicity pamphlet shall
contain, at a minimum, the following information:
(a)The date of the
election.
(b)The voter's
polling place and the times it is open.
(c)An executive summary
of the school district's most recent capital plan submitted to the school
facilities board.
(d)A complete list of
each proposed capital improvement that will be funded with the proceeds of the
bonds and a description of the proposed cost of each improvement, including a
separate aggregation of capital improvements for administrative purposes as
defined by the school facilities board.
(e)A statement that impact aid revenue bonds will
be fully funded by aid that the school district receives from the federal
government and do not require a levy of taxes in the district.
(f)A statement that if the bonds are approved, the
first priority for the impact aid will be to pay the debt service for the bonds
and that other uses of the monies are prohibited until the debt service
obligation is met.
(g)A statement that if the impact aid revenue bonds
are approved, the school district shall not issue or sell class B bonds while
the district has existing indebtedness from impact aid revenue bonds, except
for bonds issued to refund any bonds issued by the board.
J.If the voters approve the issuance of school
district class B bonds or impact aid revenue bonds, the school district shall
not use the bond proceeds for any purposes other than the proposed capital
improvements listed in the publicity pamphlet, except that up to ten per cent percent of the bond proceeds may be used for
general capital expenses, including cost overruns of proposed capital
improvements.The proposed capital improvements may be changed by a
subsequent election as provided by this section.
K.Each school district that issues bonds under this
section is required to hold a public meeting each year between September 1 and
October 31, until the bond proceeds are spent, at which an update of the
progress of capital improvements financed through bonding is discussed and at
which the public is permitted an opportunity to comment.At a
minimum, the update shall include a comparison of the current status and the
original projections on the construction of capital improvements, the costs of
capital improvements and the costs of capital improvements in progress or
completed since the prior meeting and the future capital bonding plans of the
school district.The school district shall include in the public
meeting a discussion of the school district's use of state capital aid and
voterapproved capital overrides in funding capital improvements, if any.
L.If an election is held to change the purpose or
list of capital projects authorized by prior voter approval to issue bonds
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section, the following
requirements apply:
1.The election may be held only on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
2.No later than thirty-five days before the
election, the school district shall mail a publicity pamphlet to each household
in the school district that contains a qualified elector. The publicity
pamphlet shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
(a)The date of the election.
(b)The voter's polling place and the times it is
open.
(c)A statement as to why the election was called.
(d)A complete list of each proposed capital
improvement that is in addition to the initial capital improvements presented
in the publicity pamphlet when the bonds were approved and the proposed cost of
each improvement, including a separate aggregation of capital improvements for
administrative purposes as defined by the school facilities board.
(e)A complete list of each capital improvement that
was presented in the publicity pamphlet when the bonds were initially approved
and that is proposed to be eliminated or to have its cost reduced, and the
proposed cost of each improvement, including a separate aggregation of capital
improvements for administrative purposes as defined by the school facilities
board.
(f)Arguments for and against the proposed change,
if submitted, as provided by section 15481, subsection B, paragraph 9.
3.The ballot shall contain the words "change
capital improvements, yes" and "change capital improvements,
no", and the voter shall signify the voter's desired choice.
4.If the election is to add a purpose that was not
on the initial ballot, the ballot shall list the purpose that is proposed to be
added.
M.If an election is held to extend the time to
issue bonds pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 6 of this section, the
following requirements apply:
1.The election may be held only on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
2.No later than thirtyfive days before the
election, the school district shall mail a publicity pamphlet to each household
in the school district that contains a qualified elector.The
publicity pamphlet shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
(a)The date of the election.
(b)The voter's polling place and the times it is
open.
(c)A statement as to why the election was called.
(d)Arguments for and against the proposed change,
if submitted, as provided in section 15481, subsection B, paragraph 9.
3.The ballot shall contain the words "extend
time to issue bonds, yes" and "extend time to issue bonds, no",
and the voter shall signify the voter's desired choice. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 35-454, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-454.Informational pamphlet for bond election; review; ballot;
election; return; canvass of votes; certificate of election
A.The governing body or board of the political
subdivision shall:
1.Not less than thirtyfive days before the
bond election, mail a copy of an informational pamphlet to every household
within the political subdivision that contains a registered
voter.The pamphlet shall contain information on the:
(a)Amount of the bond authorization.
(b)Maximum interest rate of the bonds.
(c)Estimated debt retirement schedule for the
current amount of bonds outstanding, showing both principal and interest
payments, the current net assessed valuation as reported by the department of
revenue and the current adopted and estimated tax rates. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "net assessed valuation" may include the values used
to determine voluntary contributions collected pursuant to title 9, chapter 4,
article 3 and title 48, chapter 1, article 8.
(d)Estimated debt retirement schedule for the
proposed bond authorization, showing both the estimated principal and interest
payments and the estimated average annual tax rate for the proposed bond
authorization. In preparing this information and the information prescribed by
subdivision (c) of this paragraph, the projected total annual increase in net
assessed valuation for any future year shall not exceed:
(i)For the first five years of the estimated debt
retirement schedule, the average of the annual percentage growth for the
previous ten years in the net assessed valuation of the political subdivision.
(ii)For the remaining years of the estimated debt
retirement schedule, twenty percent of the average of the annual percentage
growth for the previous ten years in the net assessed valuation of the
political subdivision.
(e)Source of repayment.
(f)Estimated issuance costs.
(g)Estimated tax impact of debt service for the
bonds on an owneroccupied residence classified as class three pursuant
to section 4212003, on commercial property classified as class one
pursuant to section 4212001, paragraph 12 and on agricultural or other
vacant property classified as class two pursuant to section 4212002,
assuming the net assessed valuation of the property increases annually at the
lesser of five percent or fifty percent of the projected total annual increase
in net assessed valuation as determined pursuant to subdivision (d) of this
paragraph over the term of the bonds using the same average annual tax rate as
under subdivision (d) of this paragraph, as follows:
The tax impact over the term of the bonds on an owneroccupied
residence valued by the county assessor at $250,000 is estimated to be $___ per
year for __ years, or $___ total cost.
The tax impact over the term of the bonds on commercial
property valued by the county assessor at $1,000,000 is estimated to be $____
per year for __ years, or $______ total cost.
The tax impact over the term of the bonds on agricultural or
other vacant property valued by the county assessor at $100,000 is estimated to
be $____ per year for ___ years, or $______ total cost.
(h)In boldfaced type, estimated total cost
of the proposed bond authorization, including principal and interest.
(i)Current outstanding general obligation debt and
constitutional debt limitation.
(j)Projects and expenditures for which the bonds
are to be issued. The purpose statement shall only present factual information
in a neutral manner. Advocacy for the expenditures is strictly limited to the
arguments submitted pursuant to subdivision (n) of this paragraph.
(k)Purpose for which the bonds are to be issued and,
if applicable, in boldfaced type, that the amount of the proposed bond
authorization combined with the current outstanding debt exceeds the political
subdivision's constitutional debt limit.
(l)Polling location for the addressee.
(m)Hours during the day when the polls will be
open.
(n)Arguments for and against the authorization of
one or more of the bond propositions.
2.Set a deadline to submit arguments for and
against the authorization of one or more of the bond propositions at a public
meeting and publish the deadline in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction of the political subdivision.
3.Submit a copy of the informational pamphlet to
the department of revenue within thirty days after the bond election. The
department of revenue shall maintain copies of the pamphlets.
B.The failure of any one or more electors to
receive the informational pamphlet shall not be grounds to invalidate the
election.The election shall conform with the general election laws
of the this state.The return of the
election held in a county shall be made to the board of supervisors and, in any
other case, to the governing body or board of the municipal corporation or
district within twelve days after the election.
C.For any proposed general obligation bond
authorization where for which the principal and
interest will be paid by a levy of property taxes: ,
the ballot shall contain the phrase "the issuance of these bonds will
result in a property tax increase sufficient to pay the annual debt service on
bonds".
1.Any
written information provided by the political subdivision pertaining to the
bond election shall include financial information showing the estimated average
tax rate for the proposed bond authorization. If the bonds are to be repaid with secondary property taxes,

2.The
ballot shall contain the words "bond approval, yes" and "bond
approval, no", and the voter shall signify the voter's desired choice.
3.The
ballot shall also contain the following statement:
A "yes" vote shall
will authorize the (name of county city, town or
district) governing body to issue and sell
$______ of (name of
county, city, town or district) bonds of the district to be repaid with
secondary property taxes.The
issuance of these bonds will result in a property tax increase to pay debt
service on the bonds.For a home valued at $(median
full cash value of residential property in the county, city, town or
district), the increased tax will cost $__________ annually and
$__________ over the term of the bonds.
A "no" vote shall
not authorize the ______ governing body will deny the governing body the authority to
issue and sell such bonds of the (name
of county, city, town or district).
D.If the governing body intends to use revenues
other than property taxes to pay the debt on proposed general obligation bonds,
the ballot shall contain the phrase "the issuance of these bonds will
result in a property tax increase sufficient to pay the annual debt service on
bonds, unless the governing body provides for payment from other sources".
E.The board of supervisors, governing body or
governing board shall hold a special meeting within twenty days after the
election to canvass the votes cast and certify the result. The certificate of
the result shall be prima facie evidence of full performance of all conditions
and requirements precedent to holding the election.
F.The governing board or body shall file and record
in the office of the county recorder a certificate disclosing the purpose of
the election, the total number of votes cast and the total number of votes for
and against creating the indebtedness, and stating whether or not the
indebtedness is ordered.Upon filing and recording the certificate,
the governing board or body shall carry out the purpose of the election.
G.Variations between the estimates required by subsection
A of this section and the actual debt retirement schedules, issuance costs,
annual and total costs and tax rates shall not invalidate either the election
or the bonds. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 48-146, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-146.Ballots
At the election the ballots shall contain the words "for the bonds" and "against
the bonds".To the right of and opposite each proposal shall be
placed a square approximately the size of the square placed opposite the names
of candidates on ballots.The voter shall indicate his vote
"for the bonds" or "against the bonds" by inserting the
mark "X" in the appropriate square appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35454, subsection C.No other question,
word or figure need be printed on any ballot. The ballot need not be any
particular size, nor need sample ballots be printed, posted or distributed. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 48-685, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-685.Ballots
At the election the ballot shall contain the words "for the bonds" and "against
the bonds" and to the right of and opposite each thereof shall be placed a
square approximately the size of the squares placed opposite the names of
candidates on ballots.The voter shall indicate his vote "for
the bonds" or "against the bonds" by inserting a mark as defined
in section 16400 in the square opposite such words appear in the form and contain the statement
prescribed by section 35-454, subsection C.No other
question, word or figure need be printed on any ballot.The ballot
shall not be of any particular size, and sample ballots may or may not be
printed, posted or distributed.A number of ballots exceeding by not
less than two per cent percent the number of
registered voters whose names appear on the precinct register prepared for the
precinct, town or city shall be printed for and furnished to each polling
place. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 48-707, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-707.Notice and conduct of elections; waiver
A.Any election under this article shall be a
nonpartisan election called by posting notices in three public places within
the boundaries of the district not less than twenty days before the
election.Notice shall also be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality or county or if there is no newspaper so
circulated in the municipality in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the municipality is located once a week for two consecutive
weeks before the election.The notice shall state:
1.The place of holding the election.
2.The hours during the day, not less than six, in
which the polls will be open.
3.If it is a formation election, the boundaries of
the proposed district.
4.If it is a bond election, the amount of bonds to
be authorized for the district, the maximum rate of interest to be borne on the
bonds, the maximum term of the bonds, not exceeding twentyfive years,
and the purposes for which the monies raised will be used.
5.If it is an ad valorem tax levy election pursuant
to section 48723, the maximum tax rate per one hundred dollars of
assessed valuation to be imposed, the purposes for which the monies raised will
be used and the existing maximum tax rate, if any.
6.That a general plan is on file with the clerk.
B.The district board or the governing body, as
applicable, shall determine the date of the election and the polling places for
the election and may consolidate county precincts.For other than a
formation election pursuant to section 48705, subsection B, and an
election held pursuant to subsection G of this section, precinct registers
shall be used.The county recorder shall submit precinct registers
on the request of the clerk, and if the district includes land lying partly in
and partly out of any county election precinct, the precinct registers may
contain the names of all registered voters in the precinct and the election
boards at those precincts shall require that a prospective elector execute an
affidavit stating that the elector is also a qualified elector of the
district.For formation elections and elections held pursuant to
subsection G of this section, a prospective elector shall execute an affidavit
stating that the elector is the owner of land in the proposed district and is a
qualified elector of this state or otherwise qualified to vote pursuant to
section 483043 and stating the area of land in acres owned by the
elector. Election board members may administer oaths or take all affirmations
for these purposes.A community facilities district election held
pursuant to this article is not subject to title 16, chapter 2, article 3.
C.Except as otherwise provided by this article, the
election shall comply with the general election laws of this state, except that
the words to appear on the ballots shall be for a formation election
"district, yes" and "district, no", for a bond election "bonds, yes" and "bonds,
no", for a tax election if no tax is in place "tax, yes" and
"tax, no" and for a tax election to change an existing
maximum or eliminate an existing tax "tax change, yes" and "tax
change, no". for a bond election,
the ballot shall appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by section
35-454, subsection C.The returns of election shall be
made to the governing body or, if after formation, to the district board.
D.Within fourteen days after an election, the
governing body, or if after formation, the district board, shall meet and
canvass the returns, and if a majority of the votes cast at the election is in
favor of formation, issuing the bonds, imposing the tax or changing the tax,
the governing body or the district board, as appropriate, shall enter that fact
on its minutes. The canvass may be continued from time to
time.Failure of a majority to vote in favor of the matter submitted
does not prejudice the submission of the same or similar matters at a later
election.
E.If a person listed on the assessment roll is no
longer the owner of land in the district and the name of the successor owner
becomes known and is verified by recorded deed or other similar evidence of
transfer of ownership, the successor owner is deemed to be the owner for the
purposes of this article.
F.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article, if a petition for formation is signed by owners of all of the land in
the district described in the petition and is approved by the municipality or
county, the municipality or county may waive any or all requirements of
posting, publication, mailing, notice, hearing and landowner
election.On receipt of such a petition, and after approval by an
election of resident electors, if any, the municipality or county shall declare
the district formed without being required to comply with the provisions of
this article for posting, publication, mailing, notice, hearing or landowner
election.
G.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article, if no person has registered to vote within the district within fifty days
immediately preceding any scheduled election date, any election required to be
held pursuant to this article shall be held with the vote by the owners of land
within the district who are qualified electors of this state and other
landowners according to section 483043.Each owner has the
number of votes or portion of votes equal to the number of acres or portion of
acres rounded upward to the nearest one-fifth of an acre owned in the district
by that person.
H.For a district that is proposed to be formed by a
county, a district may be formed only if a petition for formation is signed by
the owners of all of the land in the district that is described in the petition
and if it is approved by the county. If the district is proposed to be formed
in a county island, as defined in section 11-251.12, in existence on the effective date of this amendment to this
section september 21,
2006, the petition must be signed by the owners of all of the
land in the district that is described in the petition and the district must be
approved by the county and by the municipality or all municipalities that form
the county island. If the petition is signed by the owners of all of the land
in the district, the county may waive any or all requirements of posting,
publication, mailing, notice, hearing and landowner election. On receipt of
such a petition, and after approval by an election of one hundred per cent percent of the resident electors, if any, the
county shall declare the district formed without being required to comply with
the provisions of this article for posting. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
48-806, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-806.Bond election; issuance and sale of bonds
A.Except for a
district formed pursuant to section 48851, the district board or the
elected chief and secretarytreasurer may order an election by the
qualified electors of the district to be held pursuant to title 16, chapter 2,
article 1 to determine whether bonds shall be issued on behalf of the
district. The order shall specify the maximum principal amount of bonds to be
issued, the maximum number of years bonds of any issue or series may run from
their date not exceeding thirty years, the purpose for which the bonds are to
be issued, the maximum rate of interest which
that the bonds are to
bear, the date and hours of the election and the location of the polling
places. Copies of the order shall be posted in three public places within the
district not less than twenty days prior to the date of the election, and if a
newspaper is published within the county having a general circulation within
the district, the order shall be published in the newspaper not less than once
a week during each of the three calendar weeks preceding the calendar week of
the election.
B.A district board formed pursuant to section 48851
shall not order an election for or issue bonds under this section.
C.Instead of publishing the notice described in
subsection A of this section, the board of directors may mail a notice of
election to each household containing a qualified elector of the
district.The notice shall contain the same information described in
subsection A of this section except that the notice shall not contain the
location of all the polling places for that election. The notice shall contain
the location of the polling place for that household's qualified electors. The
notice shall be mailed at least thirty-five days before the election.
D.At the election the ballot shall contain the phrases "for the bonds" and
"against the bonds". There shall be placed a square or other
designated marking space in the same manner as used for candidates on ballots.
The voter shall indicate a vote "for the bonds" or "against the
bonds" appear in the
form and contain the statement prescribed by section 35454, subsection C.
No other question, word or figure need be printed on the ballot.The
ballot need not be any particular size, nor need sample ballots be printed,
posted or distributed but ballots shall comply with standards otherwise
provided by law,
including requirements for electronic voting, if applicable.
E.If a majority of the qualified electors of the
district voting at the election approves the issuance of bonds, the district
board or the elected chief and secretarytreasurer, as appropriate, may
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the lesser of six per cent percent of the value of the taxable property
in the district as shown on the last property tax assessment roll before
issuing the bonds or the maximum amount specified in the election order.
F.Bonds may be in such denominations, may be in
registered or bearer form either as to principal or interest, or both, may
mature at such times not exceeding the maximum maturity specified in the
election order and may be subject to redemption prior to maturity, all as
specified by the district board or elected chief and secretarytreasurer,
as appropriate, as provided in subsection E of this section. The district may
engage the services of a depository to administer a book entry system for the
bonds. The costs and expenses of such depository and any registrar or paying
agent for the bonds shall be deemed to be interest expenses that may also be
paid from the tax levy made pursuant to subsection I of this section.
G.Bonds shall be executed by the manual or
facsimile signatures of the chairman and clerk of the district board or elected
chief and secretarytreasurer of the district. Coupons attached to the
bonds shall bear the facsimile signature of the chairman of the district board
or the elected chief of the district, as appropriate.
H.The district board may sell the bonds at public
or private sale or through an on-line
online bidding process.
In addition, the district board may negotiate loan agreements or loan repayment
agreements with the greater Arizona development authority in lieu of selling
bonds where authority to sell bonds has been granted by the district's voters.
The proceeds of sale on the bonds shall be deposited in an account of the fire
district fund to be known as the capital fund to be applied for the purpose for
which the bonds were issued.
I.After the bonds are issued, the district board or
elected chief and secretary-treasurer, as appropriate, shall enter on the
district's minutes a record of the bonds sold and shall annually determine the
amount of the tax levy to pay the bonds and certify such amount to the board of
supervisors of the county.The board of supervisors shall annually
cause to be levied and collected a tax, at the same time and in the same manner
as other taxes are levied and collected upon
on all taxable property
in the district, sufficient to pay principal of and interest on the bonds as
they become due and payable.Monies derived from the levy of the tax
when collected shall be deposited in the debt service fund and shall be applied
only to payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds. On payment of
the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the district, any monies remaining in
the debt service fund shall be used to reduce the district's property tax levy
in the next fiscal year. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 48-1037, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-1037.Notice and conduct of elections; waiver
A.Any election under this article shall be called
by posting notices in three public places within the boundaries of the district
not less than twenty days before the election.Notice shall also be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for
two consecutive weeks before the election.The notice shall state:
1.The place of holding the election.
2.The hours during the day, not less than six, when
the polls will be open.
3.If it is a formation election, the boundaries of
the proposed district.
4.If it is a bond election, the amount of bonds to
be authorized for the district, the maximum rate of interest to be borne on the
bonds, the maximum term of the bonds, not exceeding thirty years, and the
purposes for which the monies raised will be used.
B.A bond election under this section must be held
on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November as prescribed by
section 16204, subsection B,
paragraph 1, subdivision (d) f.
C.The district board or the board of supervisors,
as applicable, shall determine the polling places for the election and may
consolidate county precincts.For other than a formation election,
precinct registers shall be used.The county recorder shall submit
precinct registers on the request of the clerk, and if the district includes
land lying partly in and partly out of any county election precinct, the
precinct registers may contain the names of all registered voters in the
precinct and the election boards at such precincts shall require that a
prospective elector execute an affidavit stating that he is also a qualified
elector of the district. For formation elections a prospective elector shall
execute an affidavit stating that he is the owner of land in the district, is a
qualified elector of this state and stating the area of land in acres owned by
the elector.Election board members may give oaths or take all
affirmations for these purposes.
D.Except as otherwise provided by this article, the
election shall comply with the general election laws of this state, except that
the words to appear on the ballots shall be for a formation election
"district, yes" and "district, no" or for a bond election "bonds, yes" and
"bonds, no". for
a bond election, the ballot shall appear in the form and contain the statement
prescribed by section 35-454, subsection C. The returns of
election shall be made to the district board.
E.On the seventh day after the election or within
seven days of the election, the board of supervisors, or if after formation,
the district board, shall meet and canvass the returns, and if a majority of
the votes cast at the election is in favor of formation or issuing the bonds,
the board shall enter that fact on its minutes.The board may
continue the canvass from time to time.
F.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article, a petition for formation signed by owners of all of the land in the
district described and approved by the board of supervisors waives any
requirements of posting, publication, mailing, notice, hearing and
election.On receipt of such a petition, the board of supervisors
shall declare the district formed without being required to comply with this
article for posting, publication, mailing, notice, hearing or election. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 48-1409, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-1409.Conduct of election
A.The election shall be held, except as otherwise
provided by this article, in conformity with the general election laws of the
state, except that:
1.The election shall be held on the first Tuesday
following the first Monday in November as prescribed by section 16-204,
subsection B, paragraph 1, subdivision
(d) f.
2.The words
to appear on the ballots shall be "bonds, yes. (),
"bonds, no. ()".
2.The
ballot shall appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by section
35-454, subsection C.
3.The returns of election shall be made to the
board of trustees of the district.
B.On the seventh day after the election at 1:00
p.m., the board of trustees shall meet and canvass the returns, and if a
majority of the votes cast at the election is in favor of issuing the bonds, then the board of trustees shall
make an entry of that fact upon their
on the board's minutes, and certify to the board
of supervisors all proceedings had in the premises. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 48-1612, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-1612.Election to authorize issuance of bonds
A.Upon
on receiving the report
from the engineer provided by section 481611, the board of directors
shall proceed to determine the amount of money necessary to be raised and the
character and extent of contract obligations to be undertaken to carry into
effect the adopted plans and purposes, and shall forthwith call an election at
which shall be submitted to the electors of the district possessing the
qualifications prescribed by this chapter the question of whether or not bonds
of the district shall be issued in the amount so determined. The election must
be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November as
prescribed by section 16-204, subsection B,
paragraph 1, subdivision (d) f.
B.Notice of the election shall be given by posting
notices in three public places in each election precinct in the district for at
least twenty days, and by publication in a newspaper published in the county
where the office of the board of directors is maintained, once a week for at
least three consecutive weeks.The notice shall specify the time of
holding the election, the amount of bonds proposed to be issued and the maximum
rate of interest to be borne on the bonds.
C.The election shall be conducted and the results
thereof determined and declared in all respects as nearly as possible in
conformity with article 3 of this chapter governing the election of
directors.No informalities in conducting the election shall
invalidate the election if it has been otherwise fairly conducted.
D.At the election the ballots shall contain the words "bondsyes"
and "bondsno" appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35-454, subsection C.If the majority of the
votes cast is "bondsyes,"
approve the bonds, the
board of directors shall cause a series of bonds in the amount authorized to be
prepared.If the majority of the votes cast is "bondsno,"
reject the bonds, the
result of the election shall be so declared and entered of record.
E.When the board thereafter deems it for the best
interest of the district to issue bonds for district purposes and that the
question of the issuance thereof be submitted to the electors, the board shall
adopt resolutions to that effect and record them in its minutes, and the board
may thereupon submit the question to the electors in the same manner and with
like effect as at the previous election. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 48-2442, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-2442.Bond election; results
A.Upon
on determining the amount
of money necessary to be raised for any or all of the purposes set forth in
section 482441, the board of directors shall immediately call an
election at which shall be submitted to the electors of the district the
question of whether or not the bonds of the district shall be issued in the
amount so determined. The election must be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November as prescribed by section 16-204, subsection B, paragraph 1, subdivision (d) f.
B.Notice of the election shall be given by posting
notice thereof in three public places in each election precinct of the
district, or if the district is not divided into divisions, in three public
places in the district, for at least twenty days, and by publication of the
notice in a newspaper published in the county in which the office of the board
of directors of the district is located, once a week for at least two
successive weeks.The notice shall specify the time of holding the
election, the amount of bonds proposed to be issued, the maximum rate of
interest to be borne on the bonds and the denominations thereof.
C.Except as otherwise provided, the election shall
be held and the results thereof determined and declared in all respects as
nearly as practicable in conformity with the provisions of article 4 of this
chapter governing the election of directors.No informality in
conducting the election shall invalidate the election if it has been otherwise
fairly conducted.
D.At the election the ballots shall contain the words "bondsyes"
and "bondsno." appear in the form and contain the statement
prescribed by section 35-454, subsection C.If a majority
of the votes cast at the election is
"bondsyes" approve the bonds, the board of directors
shall cause the bonds to be issued. If a majority of the votes cast is "bondsno,"
reject the bonds, the
result of the election shall be declared by the board of directors and entered
on its record, and at any time thereafter when a petition signed by one-fourth
or more of the qualified electors of the district is presented to the board of
directors, the board shall record such presentation in its minutes, and shall
thereupon again submit such question to the electors of the district in the
same manner and with like effect as at the previous election. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 48-2751, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-2751.Bond election; results
A.For the purpose of constructing the necessary
conduits, drains, sluices, water-gates, pumps, pumping plants, and
embankments and any and all other works and appliances necessary
for the drainage of the lands of the district, acquiring the necessary property
and rights therefor and otherwise carrying out this chapter, the board of
directors of the district shall,
as soon after the district has been organized as is practicable, and thereafter
when the construction fund has been exhausted and it is necessary to raise
additional money for such purposes, shall
estimate and determine the amount of money necessary to be raised
therefor.
B.The board shall immediately call an election at
which shall be submitted to the electors of the district the question of
whether or not the bonds of the district shall be issued in the amount so
determined.The election shall be held on the first Tuesday following
the first Monday in November as prescribed by section 16-204, subsection B, paragraph 1, subdivision (d) f.
C.Notice of the election shall be given by posting
notice thereof in three public places in each election precinct of the
district, or if the district is not divided into divisions, in three public
places in the district, for at least twenty days, and by publication of the
notice in a newspaper published in the county in which the office of the board
of directors is located, once a week for at least two successive
weeks.The notice shall specify the time of holding the election,
the amount of bonds proposed to be issued, the denominations thereof and the
maximum rate of interest which
that the bonds shall
bear.
D.The election shall be held and the results
thereof determined and declared in all respects as nearly as practicable in
conformity with article 4 of this chapter governing the election of
directors.No informality in conducting the election shall
invalidate it if the election has been otherwise fairly conducted.
E.At the election the ballots shall contain the words, "bondsyes"
and "bondsno." appear in the form and contain the statement
prescribed by section 35-454, subsection C.If a
majority of the votes cast at the election is "bondsyes,"
approve the bonds, the
board of directors shall cause the bonds to be issued. If a majority of the
votes cast at the election is
"bondsno," reject the bonds, the result of the election
shall be declared by the board of directors and entered on its record, and at
any time thereafter when a petition signed by one fourth or more of the
qualified electors of the district is presented to the board of directors, the
board shall record such presentation in its minutes and shall thereupon again
submit such question to the electors of the district in the same manner and
with like effect as at the previous election. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 48-3094, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-3094.Election on question of contract; notice; statement;
judicial determination of validity of contract and proceedings
A.Any proposal to enter into a contract with the
United States for the repayment of construction monies, the cost of a water
supply or the acquisition of property, and to issue bonds, if any are proposed,
shall be voted upon on at an election which that shall be held as nearly as practicable in
accordance with elections for the issuance of district bonds.
B.Notice of the election shall contain, in addition
to the information required in regular district bond elections, a statement of
the maximum amount of money to become payable to the United States for
construction purposes, the cost
of water supply or the
acquisition of property, exclusive of penalties and interest, together with a
general statement of the property, if any, to be conveyed by the district as
provided by this article.
C.The ballots at the election shall contain a brief
statement of the general purpose of the contract and the amount of the
obligation to be assumed, with the words "contractyes,"
and "contractno," or "contract and
bondsyes," and "contract and bondsno,"
as the case may be.if bonds
are proposed to be issued, the ballot shall also include the following
statement:
The issuance of these
bonds will result in a property tax increase to pay debt service on the bonds.
For a home valued at $(median full cash value of residential
property in the district), the increased tax will cost
$__________ annually and $__________ over the term of the bonds.
D.The board of directors may by petition filed in
the superior court of the county in which the office of the district is located
institute a proceeding for the purpose of having a judicial determination of
the validity of the contract, the regularity and legality of the proceedings of
the board for the authorization of the board to enter into the contract, the
authority for and the validity of the issuance and deposit or transfer of the
bonds, if any, and the validity of the organization of the
district.Such proceedings shall be had as other judicial
examinations and judgments as to the validity of bonds as provided by this
chapter.The proceeding may be instituted by any person interested
as an elector, taxpayer or property owner. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section
48-3190, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-3190.Election to authorize issuance of bonds
A.Notice of election
shall be given by posting notices in three public places in the district for at
least twenty days prior to the date of the election and by publication thereof
in a newspaper published in the county in which the office of the board of
directors is located, once a week for at least three successive weeks prior to
the election.The notice shall specify the time of holding the
election, the maximum principal amount of bonds proposed to be issued, the
purpose for which the bonds are to be issued and the maximum rate of interest which the bonds are to bear and
the location of the polling places.
B.Except as otherwise provided, the election shall
be held and the result thereof determined and declared in all respects as
nearly as practicable in conformity with article 4 of this chapter governing
the election of directors.No informalities in conducting the
election shall invalidate the election if it has been otherwise fairly
conducted.
C.At the election the ballot shall contain the words: "bondsyes,"
and "bondsno,".To the right of
and opposite each phrase shall be placed a square approximately the size of the
squares placed opposite the names of candidates on ballots.The
voter shall indicate his vote "bondsyes" or
"bondsno" by inserting the mark
"X" in the square opposite such phrase appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35-454, subsection C.No other question, word
or figure need be printed on the ballot.The ballot need not be of
any particular size, and sample ballots are not required to be printed, posted
or distributed.If the majority of the votes cast is "bondsyes,"
approve the bonds, the
bonds shall be sold at such times and in such amounts as the board of directors
deems advisable.
D.When thereafter the board deems it for the best
interest of the district that bonds be issued for district purposes and that
the question of issuance thereof be submitted to the electors, the board shall
adopt a resolution to that effect and record it in its minutes, and the board
may thereupon submit the questions to the electors in the same manner and with
like effect as at the previous election. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 48-4543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-4543.General obligation bond election; results
A.On determining the amount of money that is
necessary to be raised for any of the purposes set forth in section 484542
and that may be subject to repayment under section 484503, subsection B,
paragraph 1, the board shall immediately call an election to submit to the
electors of the district the question of whether the bonds of the district
shall be issued in the amount so determined.The election must be
held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November as prescribed
by section 16204, subsection B,
paragraph 1, subdivision (d) f.
B.Notice of the election shall be posted in three
public places in each election precinct of the district for at least twenty
days and by publication in a newspaper published in the county in which the
office of the board of directors of the district is located once a week for at
least two consecutive weeks.The notice shall state the date of the
election, the amount of bonds proposed to be issued, the maximum rate of
interest to be borne on the bonds and the denominations.
C.The election shall be held and the results shall
be determined and declared in a manner as nearly as practicable as provided by
section 484433 governing the election of board
members.Informalities in conducting the election do not invalidate
the election if it has been otherwise fairly conducted.
D.At the election the ballots shall contain the words "bondsyes"
and "bondsno" appear in the form and contain the statement prescribed by
section 35-454, subsection C.If a majority of the
votes cast at the election is
"bondsyes" approve the bonds, the board of directors
shall cause the bonds to be issued.If a majority of the votes cast is "bondsno"
reject the bonds, the
result of the election shall be declared by the board of directors and entered
on its record, and at any time thereafter when a petition signed by one-fourth
or more of the qualified electors of the district is presented to the board of
directors, the board shall record such presentation in its minutes and shall
again submit the question to the electors of the district in the same manner
and with similar effect as at the previous election. END_STATUTE

