







REFERENCE TITLE: eligibility verification; public
  programs







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2559









Introduced by
Representative
  Kern





AN ACT

Amending Title
46, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 8; relating to fraud in public
programs.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
46, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 8, to read:
CHAPTER 8
FRAUD PREVENTION
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE46-901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Department" means the department of
economic security.
2."Identity information" means an applicant or
recipient's full name, aliases, date of birth, address, social security number
and other related information.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-902.Enhanced eligibility verification system
A.The department shall establish a computerized income, asset and identity
eligibility verification system in order to verify eligibility, eliminate the
duplication of assistance and deter waste, fraud and
abuse within each respective assistance program administered by the department.
B.The department
shall contract with a thirdparty vendor for the purposes of developing a
system to verify applicant income, asset and
identity information to prevent fraud, misrepresentation and inadequate
documentation when
determining an applicant's
eligibility for assistance before the distribution of benefits, periodically
between eligibility redeterminations and during
eligibility redeterminations and reviews. The department may also contract with a vendor to provide information to
facilitate recipient eligibility reviews conducted by the department.
C.The contract with a third-party vendor must:
1.Require that the vendor, in partnership with the department,
establish annualized savings realized from the implementation of the
eligibility verification system and savings must exceed the total yearly cost
to this state for implementing the verification system.
2.Have a payment structure that is based on a per
applicant rate and may include a performance bonus for achieving above a
predetermined rate of success of identifying waste, fraud and abuse.
D.To avoid any conflict of interest, when the department
enters into a contract with a third-party vendor, that primary vendor may not
currently and is not allowed to bid on or be awarded a state contract to run
enrollment services.
E.This section does not preclude the department from
continuing to conduct additional eligibility verification processes that are
currently in practice. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-903.Verification of identity and asset information
A.Notwithstanding
any other provision of this title, all applications for benefits shall be
processed within the minimum period of time required by federal
law.Before awarding assistance, and on a quarterly basis
thereafter, the department shall verify identity information of each respective
applicant and recipient of assistance from the department against all of the
following:
1.Earned and unearned income information maintained by
the internal revenue service.
2.Employer weekly, monthly or quarterly reports of
income and unemployment insurance payment information maintained by the
industrial commission of Arizona.
3.Earned income information maintained by the United
States social security administration.
4.Immigration status information maintained by United
States citizenship and immigration services.
5.Death register information maintained by the United
States social security administration.
6.Prisoner information maintained by the United States
social security administration.
7.Public housing and section 8 housing assistance
payment information maintained by the United States department of housing and
urban development.
8.National fleeing felon information maintained by the
federal bureau of investigation.
9.Wage reporting and similar information maintained by
states contiguous to this state.
10.Beneficiary records and earnings
information maintained by the United States social security administration in
its beneficiary and earnings data exchange database.
11.Earnings and pension information
maintained by the United States social security administration in its
beneficiary earnings exchange record system database.
12.Employment information maintained by
this state.
13.Employment information maintained by
the United States department of health and human services in its national
directory of new hires database.
14.Supplemental security income
information maintained by the United States social security administration in
its state data exchange database.
15.Veterans' benefits information
maintained by the United States department of health and human services, in
coordination with the Arizona department of health services and the Arizona
department of veterans' services, in the federal public assistance reporting
information system database.
16.Child care services information
maintained by the department.
17.Utility payments information
maintained by this state under any low income home energy assistance program.
18.Emergency utility payment information
maintained by this state or local governments.
19.A database of all persons who
currently hold a license, permit or certificate from any state agency, the cost
of which exceeds five hundred dollars.
20.Income and employment information
maintained by the department of economic security and the United States
department of health and human services' office of child support enforcement.
21.Earnings and pension information
maintained by the Arizona state retirement system and the public safety
personnel retirement system.
22.Any existing realtime database
of persons currently receiving benefits in other states, such as the national
accuracy clearinghouse.
23.A database that is substantially
similar to the database established pursuant to section 46902.
B.Before awarding assistance, and on a quarterly basis,
the department shall match identity information of each respective applicant
and recipient of assistance from the department against, at a minimum, the
following public records:
1.A nationwide public records data source of physical
asset ownership, including real property, automobiles, watercraft, aircraft and
luxury vehicles or any other vehicle owned by the applicant and recipient of
assistance.
2.A nationwide public records data source of
incarcerated individuals.
3.A nationwide bestaddress and driver license
data source to verify that the individuals are residents of this state.
4.A comprehensive public records database that
identifies potential identity fraud or identity theft and that can closely
associate name, social security number, date of birth, telephone and address information.
5.National and local financial institutions, in order to
locate undisclosed depository accounts or verify account balances of disclosed
accounts.
6.Outstanding default or arrest warrant information
maintained by the criminal history systems board, the criminal justice
information system and the warrant management system.
7.A database that is substantially similar to the
database established pursuant to section 46902. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-904.Enhanced identity authentication process
Before
awarding assistance, applicants for benefits shall complete a computerized identity authentication process that
confirms the applicant owns the identity presented in the application. The department shall review the respective applicant's or recipient's identity ownership using the
following procedures:
1.Provide a knowledgebased quiz consisting of financial
or personal questions. The quiz shall
attempt to accommodate nonbanked or underbanked applicants who do not have
an established credit history.
2.Require that the quiz for
applications be available for submission through all channels, including
online, in person and by telephone. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-905.Identity information discrepancies; department action
A.If a discrepancy results from an
applicant's or recipient's identity information and one or more of the databases
or information tools listed under this article, the department shall review the
respective applicant's or recipient's case using the following procedures:
1.If the information discovered does not result in the
department finding a discrepancy or change in an applicant's or recipient's
circumstances that may affect eligibility, the department shall take no further
action.
2.If the information discovered results in the
Department finding a discrepancy or change in an applicant's or recipient's
circumstances that may affect eligibility, the department shall promptly
redetermine eligibility after receiving the information.
3.If the information discovered results in the
department finding a discrepancy or change in an applicant's or recipient's
circumstances that may affect eligibility, the applicant or recipient shall be
given an opportunity to explain the discrepancy. Selfdeclarations by
applicants or recipients may not be accepted as verification of categorical and
financial eligibility during eligibility evaluations, reviews and
redeterminations.
B.The Department shall provide written notice to the
applicant or recipient, which shall describe in sufficient detail the
circumstances of the discrepancy or change, the manner in which the applicant
or recipient may respond and the consequences of failing to take
action.The applicant or recipient must respond within ten business
days or the minimum required by state or federal law in an attempt to resolve
the discrepancy or change. The recipient's or applicant's explanation must be
in writing. After receiving the explanation, the department may request
additional documentation if it determines that there is risk of fraud,
misrepresentation or inadequate documentation.
C.If the applicant or recipient does not respond to the
notice, the department shall deny or discontinue assistance for failure to
cooperate, in which case the department shall provide notice of intent to deny
or discontinue assistance. Eligibility for assistance may not be established
or reestablished until the discrepancy or change has been resolved.
D.If an applicant or recipient disagrees with the
findings of the match between the applicant's or recipient's identity
information and one or more databases or information tools listed under this
article, the department shall reinvestigate the matter. If the department
finds that there has been an error, the department shall take immediate action
to correct it and no further action shall be taken. If, after an
investigation, the department determines that there is no error, the department
shall determine the effect on the applicant's or recipient's case and take
appropriate action.The department shall give written notice of its
action to the applicant or recipient.
E.If the applicant or recipient agrees with the findings
of the match between the applicant's or recipient's identity information and
one or more databases or information tools listed under this article, the
department shall determine the effect on the applicant's or recipient's case
and take appropriate action. The department shall give written notice of its
action to the applicant or recipient. The department may not discontinue
assistance on finding a discrepancy or change in circumstances between an
applicant's or recipient's identity information and one or more databases or
information tools listed under this article until the applicant or recipient
has been given notice of the discrepancy and the opportunity to respond as
required by this section.
F.The department shall adopt rules necessary to implement this article.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-906.Referrals for fraud, misrepresentation or inadequate
documentation
A.After
reviewing changes or discrepancies that may affect program eligibility, the
department shall:
1.Refer suspected cases of fraud to the attorney general
for investigation and possible criminal prosecution, recovery of improper
payments and collection of civil penalties.
2.Refer suspected cases of identity fraud to the
attorney general for criminal prosecution.
3.Refer suspected cases of fraud, misrepresentation or
inadequate documentation to appropriate agencies, divisions or departments for
review of eligibility discrepancies in other state public programs, including
cases in which an individual is determined to be no longer eligible for the
original program.
B.In cases of fraud substantiated by the department, on
conviction this state shall review all legal options to remove recipients from
other public programs and to garnish wages or state income tax refunds until
this state recovers an amount equal to the amount of benefits fraudulently
received. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE46-907.Report
On or before July 1, 2017 and each year thereafter, the department
shall provide a written report to the president of the senate, the speaker of
the house of representatives and the governor and shall provide a copy to the
secretary of state detailing the effectiveness and general findings of the
eligibility verification system, including the number of cases reviewed, the
number of case closures, the number of referrals for criminal prosecution,
recovery of improper payment and collection of civil penalties and the outcomes
of any cases referred to the attorney general and the savings that have
resulted from the system.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Effective date
This act is effective from and
after December 31, 2017.

