







REFERENCE TITLE: DUI; ignition interlock requirement;
  drugs







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2590









Introduced by
Representative
  Borrelli





AN ACT

amending sections
281381, 281383, 281559, 283304, 283315 and
283319, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to driving under the
influence.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-1381, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1381.Driving or actual physical control while under the
influence; trial by jury; presumptions; admissible evidence; sentencing;
classification
A.It is unlawful for a person to drive or be in
actual physical control of a vehicle in this state under any of the following
circumstances:
1.While under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
any drug, a vapor releasing substance containing a toxic substance or any
combination of liquor, drugs or vapor releasing substances if the person is
impaired to the slightest degree.
2.If the person has an alcohol concentration of
0.08 or more within two hours of driving or being in actual physical control of
the vehicle and the alcohol concentration results from alcohol consumed either
before or while driving or being in actual physical control of the vehicle.
3.While there is any drug defined in section 133401
or its metabolite in the person's body.
4.If the vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle that
requires a person to obtain a commercial driver license as defined in section
283001 and the person has an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or more.
B.It is not a defense to a charge of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section that the person is or has been
entitled to use the drug under the laws of this state.
C.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
D.A person using a drug as prescribed by a medical practitioner
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 7, 11, 13 or 17 is not guilty of
violating subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section.
E.In any prosecution for a violation of this
section, the state shall allege, for the purpose of classification and sentencing
pursuant to this section, all prior convictions of violating this section,
section 281382 or section 281383 occurring within the past thirtysix
months, unless there is an insufficient legal or factual basis to do so.
F.At the arraignment, the court shall inform the
defendant that the defendant may request a trial by jury and that the request,
if made, shall be granted.
G.In a trial, action or proceeding for a violation
of this section or section 281383 other than a trial, action or proceeding
involving driving or being in actual physical control of a commercial vehicle,
the defendant's alcohol concentration within two hours of the time of driving
or being in actual physical control as shown by analysis of the defendant's
blood, breath or other bodily substance gives rise to the following
presumptions:
1.If there was at that time 0.05 or less alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was not under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
2.If there was at that time in excess of 0.05 but
less than 0.08 alcohol concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other
bodily substance, that fact shall not give rise to a presumption that the
defendant was or was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor, but that
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant.
3.If there was at that time 0.08 or more alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
H.Subsection G of this section does not limit the
introduction of any other competent evidence bearing on the question of whether
or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
I.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section:
1.Shall be sentenced to serve not less than ten
consecutive days in jail and is not eligible for probation or suspension of
execution of sentence unless the entire sentence is served.
2.Shall pay a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars.
3.May be ordered by a court to perform community
restitution.
4.Shall pay an additional assessment of five
hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the prison
construction and operations fund established by section 411651. This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction
occurred in the superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the
assessed monies to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a
municipal court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city
treasurer.The city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies
received to the state treasurer.
5.Shall pay an additional assessment of five
hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the public safety
equipment fund established by section 411723.This assessment
is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer.The
city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state
treasurer.
6.If the
violation involved intoxicating liquor, shall be required by the
department, on report of the conviction, to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.In
addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twelve months
beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who
operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this
paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
J.Notwithstanding subsection I, paragraph 1 of this
section, at the time of sentencing the judge may suspend all but one day of the
sentence if the person completes a court ordered alcohol or other drug
screening, education or treatment program. If the person fails to complete the
court ordered alcohol or other drug screening, education or treatment program
and has not been placed on probation, the court shall issue an order to show
cause to the defendant as to why the remaining jail sentence should not be
served.
K.If within a period of eighty-four months a person
is convicted of a second violation of this section or is convicted of a
violation of this section and has previously been convicted of a violation of
section 281382 or 281383 or an act in another jurisdiction that
if committed in this state would be a violation of this section or section 281382
or 281383, the person:
1.Shall be sentenced to serve not less than ninety
days in jail, thirty days of which shall be served consecutively, and is not
eligible for probation or suspension of execution of sentence unless the entire
sentence has been served.
2.Shall pay a fine of not less than five hundred
dollars.
3.Shall be ordered by a court to perform at least
thirty hours of community restitution.
4.Shall have the person's driving privilege revoked
for one year. The court shall report the conviction to the department. On
receipt of the report, the department shall revoke the person's driving
privilege and, if the violation involved intoxicating
liquor, shall require the person to equip any motor vehicle the
person operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section
283319. In addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor
vehicle the person operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more
than twelve months beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's
driving privilege following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the
department's receipt of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later. The
person who operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device
under this paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
5.Shall pay an additional assessment of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in
the prison construction and operations fund established by section 411651.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The city or
county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state treasurer.
6.Shall pay an additional assessment of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in
the public safety equipment fund established by section 411723.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The city or
county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state treasurer.
L.Notwithstanding subsection K, paragraph 1 of this
section, at the time of sentencing, the judge may suspend all but thirty days
of the sentence if the person completes a court ordered alcohol or other drug
screening, education or treatment program. If the person fails to complete the
court ordered alcohol or other drug screening, education or treatment program
and has not been placed on probation, the court shall issue an order to show
cause as to why the remaining jail sentence should not be served.
M.In applying the eighty-four month provision of
subsection K of this section, the dates of the commission of the offense shall
be the determining factor, irrespective of the sequence in which the offenses
were committed.
N.A second violation for which a conviction occurs
as provided in this section shall not include a conviction for an offense
arising out of the same series of acts.
O.After completing forty-five days of the
revocation period prescribed by subsection K of this section, a person whose
driving privilege is revoked for a violation of this section and who is
sentenced pursuant to subsection K of this section is eligible for a special
ignition interlock restricted driver license pursuant to section 281401.
P.The court
may order a person who is convicted of a violation of this section that does
not involve intoxicating liquor to equip any motor vehicle the person operates
with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.on
report of the conviction and certified ignition interlock requirement, the
department shall require the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.In
addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twelve months
beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who
operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this
paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-1383, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1383.Aggravated driving or actual physical control while under
the influence; violation; classification; definition
A.A person is guilty of aggravated driving or
actual physical control while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
drugs if the person does any of the following:
1.Commits a violation of section 281381,
section 281382 or this section while the person's driver license or
privilege to drive is suspended, canceled, revoked or refused or while a
restriction is placed on the person's driver license or privilege to drive as a
result of violating section 281381 or 281382 or under section 281385.
2.Within a period of eighty-four months commits a
third or subsequent violation of section 281381, section 281382
or this section or is convicted of a violation of section 281381,
section 281382 or this section and has previously been convicted of any
combination of convictions of section 281381, section 281382 or
this section or acts in another jurisdiction that if committed in this state
would be a violation of section 281381, section 281382 or this
section.
3.While a person under fifteen years of age is in
the vehicle, commits a violation of either:
(a)Section 281381.
(b)Section 281382.
4.While the person is ordered by the court or
required pursuant to section 283319 by the department to equip any motor
vehicle the person operates with a certified ignition interlock device, commits
a violation of section 281381, section 281382 or this section.
B.The dates of the commission of the offenses are the
determining factor in applying the eighty-four month provision provided in
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section regardless of the sequence in which
the offenses were committed.For the purposes of this section, a
third or subsequent violation for which a conviction occurs does not include a
conviction for an offense arising out of the same series of acts. The time
that a probationer is found to be on absconder status or the time that a person
is incarcerated in any state, federal, county or city jail or correctional
facility is excluded when determining the eighty-four month period provided in
subsection A, paragraph 2 and subsection E of this section.
C.The notice to a person of the suspension,
cancellation, revocation or refusal of a driver license or privilege to drive
is effective as provided in section 283318 or pursuant to the laws of
the state issuing the license.
D.A person is not eligible for probation, pardon,
commutation or suspension of sentence or release on any other basis until the
person has served not less than four months in prison if the person is
convicted under either of the following:
1.Subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section.
2.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section and
within an eighty-four month period has been convicted of two prior violations
of section 281381, section 281382 or this section, or any
combination of those sections, or acts in another jurisdiction that if
committed in this state would be a violation of section 281381, section
281382 or this section.
E.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section and who within an eighty-four month period has been
convicted of three or more prior violations of section 281381, section
281382 or this section, or any combination of those sections, or acts in
another jurisdiction that if committed in this state would be a violation of
section 281381, section 281382 or this section is not eligible
for probation, pardon, commutation or suspension of sentence or release on any
other basis until the person has served not less than eight months in prison.
F.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 3, subdivision (a) of this section shall serve at least the minimum
term of incarceration required pursuant to section 281381.
G.A person who is convicted under subsection A,
paragraph 3, subdivision (b) of this section shall serve at least the minimum
term of incarceration required pursuant to section 281382.
H.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section shall attend and complete alcohol or other drug screening, education or
treatment from an approved facility.If the person fails to comply
with this subsection and is placed on probation, in addition to the provisions
of section 13901 the court may order that the person be incarcerated as
a term of probation as follows:
1.For a person sentenced pursuant to subsection D
of this section, for an individual period of not more than four months and a
total period of not more than one year.
2.For a person sentenced pursuant to subsection E
of this section, for an individual period of not more than eight months and a
total period of not more than two years.
I.The time that a person spends in custody pursuant
to subsection H of this section shall not be counted towards the sentence
imposed if the person's probation is revoked and the person is sentenced to
prison after revocation of probation.
J.On a conviction for a violation of this section,
the court:
1.Shall report the conviction to the
department.On receipt of the report, the department shall revoke
the driving privilege of the person.The department shall not issue
the person a new driver license within one year of the date of the conviction
and, if the violation involved
intoxicating liquor, shall require the person to equip any motor
vehicle the person operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant
to section 283319. In addition, the court may order the person to equip
any motor vehicle the person operates with a certified ignition interlock
device for more than twentyfour months beginning on the date of
reinstatement of the person's driving privilege following a suspension or
revocation or on the date of the department's receipt of the report of
conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who operates a motor
vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this paragraph shall
comply with article 5 of this chapter.
2.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of two hundred
fifty dollars.If the conviction occurred in the superior court or a
justice court, the court shall transmit the monies received pursuant to this
paragraph to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal
court, the court shall transmit the monies received pursuant to this paragraph
to the city treasurer. The city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies
received to the state treasurer.The state treasurer shall deposit
the monies received in the driving under the influence abatement fund
established by section 281304. Any fine imposed for a violation of this
section and any assessments, restitution and incarceration costs shall be paid
before the assessment prescribed in this paragraph.
3.Shall order the person to pay a fine of not less
than seven hundred fifty dollars.
4.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of one thousand
five hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the prison
construction and operations fund established by section 411651.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer.If the conviction occurred in a municipal
court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The
city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state
treasurer.
5.In addition to any other penalty prescribed by
law, shall order the person to pay an additional assessment of one thousand
five hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the public
safety equipment fund established by section 41-1723.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction
occurred in the superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the
assessed monies to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a
municipal court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer.The
city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state
treasurer.
K.After completing the period of suspension
required by section 281385, a person whose driving privilege is revoked
for a violation of subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section may apply to the
department for a special ignition interlock restricted driver license pursuant
to section 281401.
L.The court
may order a person who is convicted of a violation of this section that does
not involve intoxicating liquor to equip any motor vehicle the person operates
with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.on
report of the conviction and certified ignition interlock device requirement,
the department shall require the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.In
addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twelve months
beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who
operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this
paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
L.M.Aggravated
driving or actual physical control while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs committed under:
1.Subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 4 of this section
is a class 4 felony.
2.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is a
class 6 felony.
M.N.For the purposes
of this section, "suspension, cancellation, revocation or refusal"
means any suspension, cancellation, revocation or refusal. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-1559, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1559.Traffic case records; abstract of record; reports
A.Each magistrate, judge or hearing officer of a
court shall:
1.Keep or cause to be kept a record of each traffic
complaint or other legal form of traffic charge deposited with or presented to
the court or its traffic violations bureau.
2.Keep a record of each official action by the
court or its traffic violations bureau in reference to each traffic complaint
or other legal form of traffic charge deposited with or presented to the court
or its traffic violations bureau, including but not limited to a record of:
(a)Each conviction, forfeiture of bail or deposit,
judgment of acquittal or civil adjudication.
(b)The amount of the civil penalty, fine or
forfeiture resulting from each traffic complaint deposited with or presented to
the court or traffic violations bureau.
B.Within ten days after the conviction, judgment or
forfeiture of bail or deposit of a person on a charge of violating chapter 3 or
4 of this title or this chapter or any other law regulating the operation of
vehicles on highways, each magistrate of the court or clerk of the court of
record in which the conviction or judgment was had or bail or deposit was
forfeited shall prepare and immediately forward to the department an abstract
of the record of the court covering the case in which the person either:
1.Was convicted.
2.Was adjudicated to have committed a civil traffic
violation.
3.Forfeited bail or deposit.
C.The person required to prepare the abstract shall
certify that it is true and correct.
D.A report is not required for a conviction or
civil adjudication involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
E.The abstract shall be made on a form furnished or
in a manner prescribed by the department and shall include:
1.The name and address of the party charged.
2.The number, if any, of the driver license of the
party charged.
3.The registration number of the vehicle involved.
4.The nature of the offense or civil traffic
violation.
5.The date of the hearing, the plea, the judgment
or whether bail or deposit was forfeited.
6.The amount of the fine, civil penalty or
forfeiture.
F.Each court of record shall also forward a like
report to the department on the conviction of a person of homicide or
aggravated assault resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle or any other
felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle was used.To
facilitate the preparation of the report, the sentencing minute entry that is
issued by the court shall indicate if the person was convicted of an offense
that required the mandatory revocation of a driver license pursuant to section
283304, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 or 6.
G.The department shall keep all abstracts received
under this section for inspection as required by law.
H.Each judge, referee, hearing officer, probation
officer or other person responsible for the disposition of cases involving
traffic offenses or civil violations committed by persons under eighteen years
of age shall:
1.Keep a full record of each case in which the person
is charged with a violation of chapter 3 or 4 of this title or this chapter or
any other law regulating the operation of vehicles on highways.
2.Report the offense or civil violation to the
department at its office in Phoenix not more than thirty days after the date on
which it was committed, except that a report is not required for parking
violations or if it is found that the offense or civil violation was not
committed.
I.The report required by subsection H of this
section shall:
1.Be made on a form furnished or in a manner
prescribed by the department.
2.Contain:
(a)All necessary information as to the identity of
the offender.
(b)The citing or arresting agency.
(c)The date and nature of the offense or civil
violation.
(d)The date of the hearing, the plea, the judgment
or whether bail or deposit was forfeited.
(e)The amount of the fine, civil penalty or
forfeiture.
J.Failure, refusal or neglect of a judicial officer
to comply with this section is misconduct in office and grounds for removal
from office. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 28-3304, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3304.Mandatory revocation of license; definition
A.In addition to the grounds for mandatory
revocation provided for in chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title, the department
shall immediately revoke the license of a driver on receipt of a record of the
driver's conviction of any of the following offenses if the conviction is
final:
1.A homicide or aggravated assault resulting from
the operation of a motor vehicle.
2.Driving a
motor vehicle while under the influence of a drug as defined in section 133401
or in violation of section 281381, subsection A, paragraph 3.
3.2.A felony in the
commission of which a motor vehicle is used. 
4.3.Theft of a motor
vehicle pursuant to section 131802. 
5.4.Unlawful use of
means of transportation pursuant to section 131803. 
6.5.Theft of means of
transportation pursuant to section 131814.
7.6.Drive by shooting
pursuant to section 131209.
8.7.Failure to stop
and render aid as required under the laws of this state if a motor vehicle
accident results in the death or personal injury of another.
9.8.Perjury or the
making of a false affidavit or statement under oath to the department under
this chapter or under any other law relating to the ownership or operation of a
motor vehicle.
10.9.Conviction or
forfeiture of bail not vacated on a second or subsequent charge of the
following offenses that are committed within eightyfour months:
(a)Reckless driving.
(b)Racing on highways.
(c)Any combination of a violation of section 281381
or 281382 and reckless driving, of a violation of section 281381
or 281382 and racing on highways, or of reckless driving and racing on
highways, if they do not arise out of the same event.
11.10.Conviction or
forfeiture of bail not vacated on a second charge of violating section 281381
or 281382 within eighty-four months.
12.11.Conviction or
forfeiture of bail not vacated on a third or subsequent charge of violating
section 281381 or 281382 within eighty-four months.
13.12.Conviction or
forfeiture of bail not vacated on a charge of violating section 281381
or 281382 and the driver has been convicted within a period of
eighty-four months of an offense in another jurisdiction that if committed in
this state would be a violation of section 281381 or 281382.
B.In determining the starting date for the
eighty-four month period prescribed in subsection A, paragraphs 9, 10,
through 13 11 and 12 of this section, the
department shall use the date of the commission of the offense.
C.For the purposes of this section,
"conviction" means a final adjudication or judgment, including an
order of a juvenile court finding that a juvenile violated any provision of
this title or committed a delinquent act that if committed by an adult would
constitute a criminal offense.
Sec.5.Section 28-3315, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3315.Period of suspension, revocation or disqualification;
unlicensed drivers
A.The department shall not suspend, revoke or
disqualify a driver license or privilege to drive a motor vehicle on the public
highways for more than one year from the date of a conviction or judgment, if
any, against a person for which this chapter makes revocation, suspension or
disqualification mandatory or from the date the notice is sent pursuant to
section 283318 if no conviction was involved, except as permitted under
subsection E of this section and sections 283312, 283319 and 283320.
B.A person whose license or privilege to drive a
motor vehicle on the public highways has been revoked may apply for a new
license as provided by law after the cause of the revocation is removed or
after expiration of the revocation period prescribed by law. After the
department investigates an applicant's driving record in this state or another
state by examining department records or other sufficient evidence to determine
that all withdrawal actions are complete, that the applicant has not committed
any traffic violations within twelve months preceding application and that all
other statutory requirements are satisfied, the department may issue a new
license.
C.The department shall not accept an application
for reinstatement of a driver license until after the twelve month period
prescribed in subsection B of this section has elapsed.
D.If the revocation is related to alcohol or other
drugs, the person shall provide the department with a current evaluation from a
physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 17 or 29, a psychologist
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1 or a substance abuse counselor as
defined in section 283005 indicating that, in the opinion of the
physician, psychologist or counselor, the condition does not affect or impair
the person's ability to safely operate a motor vehicle.For the purposes
of reinstating a license or driving privilege pursuant to this article, the
department may rely on the opinion of a physician licensed pursuant to title
32, chapter 13, 17 or 29, a psychologist licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
19.1 or a substance abuse counselor as defined in section 283005.
E.Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this
section:
1.A person whose license or privilege to drive is
revoked pursuant to section 283304, subsection A, paragraph 1 or 12 11 is not entitled to have the person's
license or privilege renewed or restored for three years.
2.A person whose license or privilege to drive is
revoked pursuant to section 131209 is not entitled to have the person's
license or privilege renewed or restored for the period of time ordered by the
court.
3.If a license, permit or privilege to drive is
revoked pursuant to section 28661, subsection E the license, permit or
privilege may not be renewed or restored except as prescribed by section
28-661, subsections E andF.
4.A person whose license, permit or privilege to
drive is revoked pursuant to section 28661, subsection G is not entitled
to have the person's license, permit or privilege renewed or restored for three
years.
F.If an unlicensed driver commits an offense for
which a driver license could be suspended, revoked or disqualified, the
department shall not accept the unlicensed driver's application for a driver
license for a period equal to the period of time that applies to a driver with
a license.If the offense is one for which a driver license could be
revoked, the department shall not accept the unlicensed driver's application
for a driver license unless it investigates the character, habits and driving
ability of the person and is satisfied that it is safe to grant the privilege
of driving a motor vehicle on the public highways.
G.The expiration of a person's license during the
period of time it is under suspension, revocation or disqualification does not
invalidate or terminate the suspension, revocation or disqualification.
H.A person whose license or privilege to drive a
motor vehicle on the public highways has been suspended pursuant to section 283306,
subsection A, paragraph 5 or section 283314 may apply for a new license
as provided by law after the cause for suspension is removed or after
expiration of the suspension period prescribed by law if both of the following
conditions are met:
1.The department is satisfied, after reviewing the
medical condition and driving ability of the person, that it is safe to grant
the person the privilege of driving a motor vehicle on the public highways.
2.If the person has a medical condition related to
alcohol or other drugs, the person provides the department with a current
evaluation form from a physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 17
or 29, a psychologist licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 19.1 or a
substance abuse counselor as defined in section 283005 indicating that,
in the opinion of the physician, psychologist or counselor, the condition does
not affect or impair the person's ability to operate a motor vehicle in a safe
manner.
Sec.6.Section 28-3319, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3319.Action after license suspension, revocation or denial for
driving under the influence or refusal of test; ignition interlock device
requirement; definition
A.If, pursuant to section 281321, 281381,
281382, 281383, 283320 or 283322, the license of a
driver or the driving privilege of a nonresident is suspended or revoked, the
department shall not terminate the suspension or revocation or issue a special
ignition interlock restricted driver license, if applicable, pursuant to
chapter 4, article 3.1 of this title until the person provides proof of
financial responsibility pursuant to chapter 9, article 3 of this title.
B.If, pursuant to section 281321, 281381,
281382, 281383, 283320 or 283322, an unlicensed
resident is denied a license or permit to operate a motor vehicle, the
department shall not issue a license or permit until the person provides proof
of financial responsibility pursuant to chapter 9, article 3 of this title.
C.If a person whose license or driving privilege is
suspended or revoked pursuant to section 281321, 281381, 281382,
281383 or 281385 is ordered, pursuant to section 281381,
281382, 281383 or 281385, to attend alcohol or other drug
screening, education or treatment, the department shall not either:
1.Terminate the suspension or issue a special
ignition interlock restricted driver license, if applicable, pursuant to
chapter 4, article 3.1 of this title until the person provides proof from the
treatment facility that the person has completed or is participating
satisfactorily in alcohol or other drug screening, education or treatment.
2.Issue a new license or a special ignition
interlock restricted driver license, if applicable, pursuant to chapter 4,
article 3.1 of this title to operate a motor vehicle after the revocation until
the person provides proof from the facility that the person has completed the
court ordered program.
D.Except as
provided in subsection G of this section, On receipt of a report
of conviction from a court for a
violation that involved intoxicating liquor or that specifically requires the
installation of a certified ignition interlock device, the
department shall require any motor vehicle the convicted person operates to be
equipped with a functioning certified ignition interlock device and the convicted
person to meet the requirements prescribed in section 281461 as follows:
1.For twelve months if:
(a)Except as provided in subsection H G
of this section, the person is convicted of a violation of section 281381,
section 281382, subsectionA, paragraph 1 or section 281383,
subsection A, paragraph 3, subdivision (a).
(b)The department determines that within a period
of eightyfour months the person is convicted of a second or subsequent
violation of section 281381 or section 281382, subsection A,
paragraph 1 with a prior conviction of a violation of section 281381, 281382
or 281383 or an act in another jurisdiction that if committed in this
state would be a violation of section 281381, 281382 or 281383.
2.For eighteen months if the person is convicted of
a violation of section 281382, subsection A, paragraph 2.
3.For twentyfour months if:
(a)The person is convicted of a violation of
section 281382, subsection A, paragraph 2 and the department determines
that within a period of eighty-four months the person has a prior conviction of
a violation of section 281381, 281382 or 281383 or an act
in another jurisdiction that if committed in this state would be a violation of
section 281381, 281382 or 281383.
(b)The person is convicted of a violation of
section 281383, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 4 or paragraph 3,
subdivision (b).
E.The requirement prescribed in subsection D of
this section begins on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving
privilege following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the
department's receipt of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.
F.A person who is required to equip a motor vehicle
with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to this section shall
comply with chapter 4, article 5 of this title.
G.The
department shall remove the requirement that the person maintain a functioning
certified ignition interlock device if the person is only convicted of a
violation of section 281381, subsection A, paragraph 3 and completes
alcohol or other drug screening required pursuant to section 281387 and
the court determines that no alcohol education or treatment is required.
H.G.The department
shall defer the remainder of the time period prescribed in subsection D, paragraph
1, subdivision (a) of this section commencing with the later of six months from
the date the interlock was installed or the completion of the requirements of
this subsection if all of the following apply:
1.The person is sentenced pursuant to section 281381,
subsection I.
2.The person successfully completes an alcohol
education program consisting of at least sixteen hours pursuant to section 281381.
3.The person has maintained a functioning ignition
interlock device on all motor vehicles the person operates and has met the
requirements of section 281461.
4.The person has not attempted to operate a vehicle
with an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more two or more times during the
period of license restriction or limitation.
5.At the time of the offense, the person was not
involved in a motor vehicle accident that resulted in physical injury or
property damage.
6.All necessary compliance information has been
provided to the department by the ignition interlock device provider, the
alcohol screening program and the alcohol education program.
I.H.The deferment
pursuant to subsection H G of this section is
permanent, unless the person is arrested for a violation of section 281381,
281382 or 281383 that occurs during the period of the deferment.
If the person is arrested as described in this subsection, the department shall
revoke the deferment and require the person to complete the remainder of the
time period prescribed in subsection D, paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of this
section.
J.I.For
the purposes of this section, "certified ignition interlock device"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 281301. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

