







REFERENCE TITLE: community college boards; terms;
  duration







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2535









Introduced by
Representative
  Shope





AN ACT

amending section
151441, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to community college district
governing boards.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-1441, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-1441.Selection of precincts; district board members; terms;
qualifications; vacancies
A.The board of supervisors shall establish in the
same manner as provided in section 16411 five precincts in a community
college district for the election of a district board member from each
precinct. A precinct in a community college district shall be composed of the
number of election precincts as determined by the board of supervisors and
shall have the same boundaries as are defined for the election precincts under
section 16411. If the board of supervisors redefines the boundaries of
election precincts under section 16411 that are included within a
precinct in a community college district, the board of supervisors shall
redefine the boundaries of the precinct in the community college district to
conform with the election precinct changes.The precincts shall be
established in a newly organized district subsequent to the organizational vote,
and the county school superintendent shall appoint five members, one from each
precinct, who are qualified electors.
B.Where two or more counties constitute a district,
as many precincts shall be set up by the board of supervisors in each county as
the county is entitled to membership. In no case shall a county that is part
of a district have more than four precincts, and where a district consists of
two or more counties at least one member shall reside in each county.
C.At the first general election held for a district,
the candidate having the most votes in each precinct shall be declared elected,
provided the candidate meets the requirements provided in subsection A of this
section. The two elected members having the highest number of votes receive six year four-year terms, the two elected members
receiving the next highest number of votes receive four year three-year terms and the one elected member
receiving the lowest number of votes receives a two year two-year term. Thereafter each member's term is six four years, except for a county with a population of at least three
million persons, beginning at the next election after June 30, 2012, each
member's term is four years.
D.The next general election of district board
members following the first general election shall be for the precinct where
the elected candidate received the lowest number of votes and the second
general election for the two precincts where the elected candidates received
the next highest number of votes and the third general election for the two
precincts where the elected candidates received the highest number of
votes.The order of elections as established through this procedure
shall thereafter be the order of precinct elections.
E.Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the
county school superintendent for the unexpired term for the precinct where the
vacancy occurs, except that if the unexpired term is two years or longer, the
county school superintendent may do one of the following:
1.Make an appointment for a term, which shall be
until the next regular election for district board members, at which time a
successor shall be elected to serve the unexpired portion of the term.
2.With the approval of the district board, leave
the vacancy until the next regular election for governing board members, at
which time a successor shall be elected to serve the unexpired portion of the
term.
F.When a vacancy occurs in a district with more
than one county, the county school superintendent of the county where the
previous incumbent resided shall fill the appointment for the unexpired term.
G.A county officer as provided in section 11401
is not eligible to serve as a member of a community college district governing
board during his the officer's term of office.
H.Employees of a community college district or
their spouses are not eligible to hold membership on the community college
district governing board in the district in which the employee is employed.
I.Beginning July 1, 2012, In addition to the governing board members who
are elected from each of the five precincts in a community college district, a
county with a population of at least three million persons shall elect two
additional governing members from the district at large. At the first general
election held to elect atlarge governing board members, the two
candidates having the most votes shall be declared elected, if each candidate
is a qualified elector who resides in that county.The elected
member who receives the highest number of votes of the atlarge
candidates shall serve a four year
four-year term and the
elected member who receives the next highest number of votes shall serve a two year two-year term. Thereafter each member's term
is four years. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retention of community college district governing board
members
Notwithstanding section 151441, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, all persons serving as members of a community
college district governing board on the effective date of this act may continue
to serve until the expiration of their normal terms. All subsequent terms
shall be as prescribed by statute.

