







REFERENCE TITLE: state employees; paid family leave







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2673









Introduced by
Representatives
  Larkin, Velasquez: Fernandez, Mach





AN ACT

amending Title
38, chapter 4, article 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 38-659;
relating to state employee leave.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 38, chapter 4, article 4,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 38-659, to read:
START_STATUTE38-659.Family leave pilot program; department of health services;
definition
A.The
department of administration shall establish a family leave pilot program for
eligible state employees in the department of health services.
B.The
department of administration by rule shall adopt standards to establish shortterm
disability coverage for eligible state EMPLOYEEs who are enrolled in the family
leave pilot program.
C.ELIGIBLE
state employees who choose to participate in the family leave pilot program
shall agree to pay the contracted amount as determined by the department of
administration.
D.Eligible
state employees shall be granted paid leave for six weeks before and six weeks
after the birth of a child or placement of a child in connection with foster
care or adoption.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "eligible state employee" means a
biological, foster or adoptive parent who is employed by the department of
health services.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Family leave pilot program; report
A.On or before July 1, 2020, the department of
administration shall report to the joint legislative budget committee a
detailed cost analysis of the family leave pilot program.The report
shall include all of the following:
1.The number of eligible state employees as defined
in section 38659, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, who
participated in the program.
2.The cost of the program.
3.Any other relevant factors.
B.The department of administration shall present
the results of the cost analysis conducted pursuant to subsection A of this
section to the senate committee on health and human services and the house of
representatives committee on health, or their successor committees, on or
before October 1, 2020.
Sec.3.Exemption from rulemaking
For the purposes of this act, the department of administration
and the department of health services are exempt from the rulemaking
requirements of title 41, chapter 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year
after the effective date of this act.
Sec.4.Delayed repeal
This act is repealed from and after December 31, 2021.

