







REFERENCE TITLE: board of executive clemency; membership.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2681









Introduced by
Representatives
  Velasquez, Mendez: Andrade, Bolding, Clark, Espinoza, Fernandez, Gabaldn,
  Otondo, Plumlee, Rios, Rivero





AN ACT

amending section
31401, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the board of executive
clemency.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 31-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-401.Board of executive clemency; qualifications; appointment;
officers; quorum; meeting
A.The board of executive clemency is established
consisting of five the following nine members who
are appointed by the governor pursuant to this subsection and section 38211:
1.One
mental health expert.
2.One drug
addiction expert.
3.One
prosecutor.
4.One
criminal defense attorney.
5.One
member who is recommended by the director of the state department of
corrections.
6.One
victims' rights advocate.
7.Three
public members, not more than two of whom are from the same political party.
B.The members of the board shall be compensated on
an hourly basis and are not eligible for paid leave. Beginning from and after December 31, 2013,
Members of the board are eligible for any benefits that are provided to state
employees pursuant to section 38651.A member who is acting
as the executive director shall be compensated pursuant to subsection K of this
section. Each member shall be appointed on the basis of broad professional or
educational qualifications and experience and shall have demonstrated an
interest in the state's correctional program.No more than two
members from the same professional discipline shall be members of the board at
the same time.
C.Each member appointed to the board shall complete
a four week fourweek course relating to the duties
and activities of the board.The course shall be designed and
administered by the chairman of the board and shall be conducted by the office
of the board of executive clemency and the office of the attorney
general.The course shall include training in all statutes that
pertain to the board and participation in a decision making decisionmaking workshop.
D.Members shall be appointed for a term of five
years to expire on the third Monday in January of the appropriate year.
E.The
governor may remove a member of the board may be removed by the governor for cause.
F.The governor shall select a member of the board
as chairman.The chairman shall select other officers as are
advisable.The term of the chairman is two years, except that the
chairman may be removed as chairman at the pleasure of the
governor.If a board member's term expires while the member is
serving as chairman, the chair shall be deemed vacant and a new chairman shall
be selected.
G.The board may adopt rules, not inconsistent with
law, as it deems proper for the conduct of its business.The board
may from time to time amend or change the rules and publish and distribute the
rules as provided by the administrative procedures act.
H.The board shall meet at least once a month at the
state prison and at other times or places as the board deems necessary.
I.The presence of three members of the board
constitutes a quorum, except that the chairman may designate that the presence
of two members of the board constitutes a quorum.
J.If two members of the board constitute a quorum
pursuant to subsection I of this section and the two members do not concur on
the action under consideration, the chairman of the board, if the chairman is
not one of the members who constituted the quorum and after reviewing the
information considered by the two members, shall cast the deciding
vote.If the chairman of the board is one of the two members
constituting a quorum at a hearing under subsection I of this section, and
there is not concurrence on the action under consideration, the action fails.
K.The board shall employ an executive director
whose compensation shall be determined pursuant to section 38611. The
chairman of the board may act as the executive director. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Initial terms of members of the board of executive
clemency
A.Notwithstanding section 31-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, the terms of additional members of the board
of executive clemency are:
1.One term ending January 21, 2019.
2.One term ending January 20, 2020.
3.One term ending January 18, 2021.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.

