







REFERENCE TITLE: pawnbroker licensure; DPS







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2690









Introduced by
Representative
  Gowan





AN ACT

Amending sections
44-1621, 44-1624, 44-1625, 44-1627, 44-1628 and 44-1629, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending title 44, chapter 11, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes,
by adding section 44-1633; relating to pawnbrokers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1621.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Designee"
means a local law enforcement agency designated in writing by a county sheriff
to perform designated duties specified in this article on behalf of the
sheriff.
1."Department"
means the department of public safety.
2."Identification
document" means a valid driver license, a valid nonoperating
identification license, a valid armed forces identification card or any other
valid government issued photo identification.
3."Loan"
means advancing money on the security of pledged goods or purchasing tangible
personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by
the seller for a fixed or variable price within a fixed or variable period of
time.
4."Local
law enforcement agency" means the chief of police, the police department
or the town marshal, if applicable to a city or town, or the county sheriff,
the sheriff's designee or the county sheriff's department, if applicable to a
county.
5.4."Maturity
date" means the date specified on the pawn ticket by which the pledged
goods must be redeemed or the pawn ticket must be renewed.
6.5."Misrepresentation"
means a false or misleading representation made by a person with an intent to
deceive or defraud.
7.6."Omission"
means a failure to include or to take notice of or the leaving out of pertinent
information by a person with an intent to mislead.
8.7."Pawn
ticket" means the actual executed document that records the pawn
transaction and describes the conditions of the loan agreement between the
pawnbroker and pledgor.
9.8."Pawn
transaction" means either the act between the pawnbroker and a person
pledging tangible personal property or extending credit on the security of
pledged goods or the act of purchasing tangible personal property with an
express or implied agreement or understanding that it may be redeemed or
repurchased by the seller for a fixed or variable price within a fixed or
variable period of time, except that a good faith outright purchase of tangible
personal property is not a pawn transaction.
10.9."Pawnbroker"
means a person who is engaged in the business of advancing money on the
security of pledged goods or is engaged in the business of purchasing tangible
personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by
the seller for a fixed or variable price within a fixed or variable period of
time.
11.10."Pawnshop"
means the location or premises at which a pawnbroker is licensed to regularly
conduct the pawnbroker's business.
12.11."Pledged
goods" means tangible personal property which
that is deposited with or otherwise actually delivered into the
possession of a pawnbroker in the course of the pawnbroker's business in
connection with the pawn transaction.
13.12."Pledgor"
means the person leaving the personal property with the pawnbroker and executing
the pawn ticket.
14.13."Redeem"
or "redemption" means the act of the pledgor or the pledgor's agent
of retrieving and paying in full all charges and fees for the pledged goods
left with the pawnshop.
15.14."Reportable
transaction" means any transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, trade or consignment. 
16.15."Transaction
date" means the initial date of the reportable transaction. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-1624, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1624.Pawn transactions; reportable transactions 
A.The length of all pawn transactions is a minimum
of ninety days, except that a longer term may be contracted for between the
pawnbroker and the pledgor.
B.A pawnbroker shall not enter into a pawn
transaction or good faith outright purchase of tangible personal property with
a person who is less than eighteen years of age.
C.A pawnbroker shall not enter into a pawn
transaction or good faith outright purchase of tangible personal property that
has a manufacturer's serial number that has been removed, altered or
obliterated.
D.Before entering into a pawn transaction or good
faith outright purchase of tangible personal property a pawnbroker shall
require the pledgor or seller to identify himself with an identification
document sufficient to verify the information required pursuant to section
44-1625.
E.A pawnbroker shall retain any pledged goods at
the pawnbroker's place of business or any other storage location approved by
the applicable local law enforcement
agency department.
F.The pawnbroker shall retain any property obtained
by good faith outright purchase in its original form for twenty days after the
original transaction date at the pawnbroker's place of business or other
storage location approved by the applicable
local law enforcement agency department.
G.The pawnbroker shall maintain at the pawnbroker's
place of business records of all reportable transactions and pawn tickets and
shall retain the records for at least two years after the date when the
transaction occurred. The pawnbroker shall ensure that the records include
accurate copies of all transaction receipts or pawn tickets. On request by a local law enforcement agent in the course of
the agent's duties the
department, the pawnbroker shall allow the agent department
to inspect the pawnbroker's receipts, pawn tickets or required
alcohol, tobacco and firearms logs or to review any article received by the
pawnbroker by pledge, purchase or trade.
H.A pawnbroker shall produce the pawnbroker's
register, shall exhibit all articles received by the pawnbroker in pledge or
purchase or shall produce the pawnbroker's account of sales to a local law enforcement agency the department on the agency's
department's request to inspect the register, articles or
accounts of sales of the pawnbroker or on service of a search warrant or order
issued by a judge or magistrate. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 44-1625, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1625.Reports 
A.A pawnbroker shall make a true, complete and
accurate report each day of each article the pawnbroker receives through a
reportable transaction.The report shall be delivered within two
business days to the sheriff or the
sheriff's designee of the county in which the pawnbroker is licensed department by mail, hand
delivery or electronic means as approved by the sheriff or the sheriff's designee department. For the purposes
of this subsection,
"electronic means" means a computer diskette or modem.
B.The pawnbroker shall make the report of each item
received through a reportable transaction on the form provided or approved by
the sheriff or the sheriff's designee department.
C.The report form provided or approved by the sheriff or his designee department shall include at
least all of the following:
1.The last, first and middle name of the pledgor or
seller.
2.The permanent address and telephone number, if
applicable, of the pledgor or seller.
3.The physical description of the pledgor or seller
including height, weight, hair and eye color, sex, race and date of birth.
4.The number and type of the identification
document presented by the pledgor or seller.
5.An accurate, legible description of each item
pledged or sold, including the manufacturer's name, model number, serial
number, caliber, size, type of item and any owner applied number, inscription
or monogram.
6.The pawnbroker's name and address and the clerk's
initials or identifying number.
7.The date and time of the initial pawn or purchase
transaction.
8.The type of transaction and initial pawn ticket
number.
9.A fingerprint of the pledgor or seller.
D.The pledgor or seller shall sign the report and
attest to the following statement that shall appear on the report in ten point ten-point bold type:
All information in this report is complete and
accurate.I am the owner of the goods described in this report or I
am authorized to enter into this pawn or sale transaction on behalf of the
owner of the goods described in this report.I understand that I
will be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor if the information in this report is
not complete and accurate, if I am not the owner of the goods pledged or sold
or if I am not authorized to enter into the pawn or sale transaction on behalf
of the owner of the goods. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 44-1627, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1627.Licensing; requirements
A.A person shall not act as a pawnbroker until
licensed by the sheriff of the county in
which the person regularly conducts business department pursuant to this article and rules adopted by
the department.
B.A pawnbroker shall obtain a separate license for
each pawnshop owned by that pawnbroker.
C.A pawnbroker license may not be sold or
transferred without the approval of the sheriff
or the sheriff's designee
department.
D.A pawnbroker shall not conduct business at a
location other than a licensed location except for firearms transactions that are
permitted by a federally licensed firearms dealer at an organized gun show.
E.Every pawnbroker shall be a bona fide resident of
this state.If a partnership, each partner shall be a bona fide
resident of this state.If a corporation, it shall be a domestic
corporation or a foreign corporation which that has qualified to do
business in this state.The corporation shall hold its pawnbroker
license through an agent.
F.The sheriff
or the sheriff's designee department
shall require any person, other than a bank or licensed lending
institution, having any interest, directly or indirectly, in a pawnshop to
submit a full set of fingerprints, together with the applicable fingerprint
processing fee, to the sheriff.The
sheriff shall submit the fingerprints to the department of public safety for the purpose
of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750
and Public Law 92544.The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint
data with the federal bureau of investigation.The sheriff shall forward the fee to the department of public
safety.
G.A corporation shall own the entire equitable
interest in its license through an agent if the agent is otherwise qualified to
hold a pawnbroker license. The agent is subject to the penalties prescribed
for any violation of law relating to pawnbrokers.On the death,
resignation or discharge of an agent of a corporation holding a pawnbroker
license, the corporation shall promptly assign the license to another qualified
agent selected by the corporation.
H.The sheriff department shall not issue a
license to a person who, within one year before the application, has violated
any provision of a previously issued pawnbroker license or has had a license
revoked.The sheriff department shall not issue to
or renew a license of a person who, within five years before the application,
has been convicted of a felony involving trafficking in stolen property,
fraudulent schemes, forgery, theft, extortion or conspiracy to defraud or a felony
involving moral turpitude. The sheriff department shall not issue to
or renew a license of a corporation unless it has on file with the sheriff of the county in which the license is issued
a list of its officers and directors and any stockholders who own ten per cent percent or more of the corporation. The sheriff department shall not issue to or renew a
license of a corporation if any of its officers or directors or any stockholder
who owns ten per cent percent or more of the
corporation has within five years been convicted of a felony involving
trafficking in stolen property, fraudulent schemes, forgery, theft, extortion
or conspiracy to defraud or a felony involving moral turpitude.
I.The sheriff
department shall not
issue a license to a person or corporation that has knowingly made any false
statements or material misrepresentations in the license application.
J.A person shall not use the word "pawn",
"pawnshop" or "pawnbroker" in its business name, on any
sign or in any advertisement unless the person is licensed as a pawnbroker
pursuant to this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 44-1628, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1628.Revocation and suspension
A.After notice and an opportunity for a hearing in
accordance with title 41, chapter 6, article 6
10, the sheriff department may suspend any
license for a period of not more than thirty days for acts that demonstrate a pattern
of misrepresentation or wilful omissions or a violation of or noncompliance
with any provision of this article other than a violation or noncompliance
resulting from a bona fide error that occurred provided that the pawnshop
maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid the occurrence of bona fide
errors.The sheriff or the
sheriff's designee department
shall provide procedures for the redemption of pledged goods and
the renewal of pawn transactions on maturity during a period when a license is
suspended. For the purposes of this subsection, "bona fide error"
includes clerical, calculation, computer malfunction, programming and printing
errors and other similar errors.
B.The sheriff department may revoke or
refuse to renew a license if more than two suspensions of the license have
occurred within the preceding twelve calendar months or if the licensee has
been convicted of a felony involving trafficking in stolen property, fraudulent
schemes, forgery, theft, extortion or conspiracy to defraud or a felony
involving moral turpitude.
C.Decisions of the sheriff or the sheriff's designee department are subject to
judicial review pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 44-1629, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1629.Fees; penalty
A.A person applying for a new pawnbroker license
shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars to the sheriff of the county in which the pawnbroker is to be
licensed department.
B.Each licensed pawnbroker shall pay a renewal fee
of five hundred dollars annually to the sheriff
of the county in which the pawnbroker is licensed department. The annual renewal fee is due
not later than January 31.
C.A licensee who fails to renew his license within
thirty days after the payment of the license fee is due is subject to a penalty
of ten per cent percent of the license fee
which is payable with the license fee.
D.The director
of the department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35-147,
monies collected pursuant to this section in the department of public safety
pawnbroker licensing fund established by section 441633. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Title 44, chapter 11, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 44-1633, to read:
START_STATUTE44-1633.Department of public safety pawnbroker licensing fund
A.The
department of public safety pawnbroker licensing fund is established consisting
of monies collected pursuant to section 44-1629.
B.The
director of the department shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund are
continuously appropriated to the director to cover the operational and
equipment costs of regulating the pawnbroker industry. END_STATUTE

