







REFERENCE TITLE: behavioral health; uniform patient
  reporting







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2663









Introduced by
Representatives
  Rios, Cardenas, Saldate, Velasquez: Andrade, Clark, Espinoza, Fernandez,
  Friese, Gabaldn, Gonzales, Hale, Larkin, Mendez, Wheeler





AN ACT

Amending Title
36, chapter 34, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
36-3405.01; relating to behavioral health services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, chapter 34, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-3405.01, to read:
START_STATUTE36-3405.01.Uniform patient reporting system; data; reports;
confidentiality; costs
A.The
administration shall prescribe and implement a uniform patient reporting system
for any persons receiving behavioral health services, including mental health treatment
and treatment for drug or alcohol dependency and any medical condition
associated with these disabilities, and any hospital inpatient and emergency
department services.
B.The
administration shall require any service provider and its subcontractors to
report statistical data designed to promote and provide information on the
utilization of services, the effectiveness of the services and the impact of
the services on the disabilities, including cost effectiveness and cost
containment. These data shall be derivable from the data obtained under the
uniform patient reporting system prescribed in subsection A of this section and
for all services provided shall include the following:
1.The
number of service encounters.
2.The
number of encounters per individual patient and the total range and average by
each service type, such as inpatient days and outpatient visits.
3.The range
of charges and the average charge per day per service type.
4.The
average charge per service, calculated as the average length of service stay
multiplied by the average charge per service.
C.Each
category of data specified in subsection B of this section shall be further
categorized by one or more of the following methods as determined by the
administration:
1.Discharge
diagnoses.
2.Groupings
of related diagnoses.
3.Groupings
of diagnoses that typically have similar numbers and lengths of service
encounters.
4.Any other
similar category as determined by the administration.
D.The
administration shall require all service providers and subcontractors to report
outpatient service statistical data designed to promote cost containment and
cost effectiveness. The administration shall adopt rules establishing the
procedures for reporting. These data shall be derivable from the data obtained
under the uniform patient reporting system prescribed in subsection A of this
section and shall include the following:
1.Dates of
service.
2.Length
and number of services by service environment and service provider.
3.Charges
for each service.
E.The
administration shall require all service providers to report other clinical and
demographic data regarding patient age, gender, ethnicity and insurance
coverage for inpatient and emergency department services.
F.The
Arizona state hospital shall comply with the reporting requirements specified
in subsections B, D and E of this section.
G.The data
from the period beginning January 1 and ending June 30 of each year shall be
reported on or before August 15 of that year. The data from the period
beginning July 1 and ending December 31 of each year shall be reported on or
before February 15 of the following year.
H.All
reports filed pursuant to this section are open to public inspection at the
offices of the administration. The administration shall ensure that this
public access to reports does not breach confidentiality of privileged medical
information, protected health information or privileged information on an
individual's work performance or earnings.
I.If the
administration determines that further investigation is necessary or desirable
to verify the accuracy of information in reports submitted under this section,
the administration may further examine records and accounts related to the
reporting requirements of this section.The administration shall
bear the costs of this examination unless the administration finds that the
records examined are significantly deficient or incorrect, in which case the
administration may charge the cost of the investigation to the facility or
service provider examined. END_STATUTE

