







REFERENCE TITLE: disability removable windshield placards







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2657









Introduced by
Representatives
  Bolding, Andrade, Cardenas, Espinoza, Hale, Rios: Alston, Clark, Fernandez,
  Gabaldn, Larkin, McCune Davis, Mendez, Meyer, Otondo





AN ACT

amending section
28-2409, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to special plates.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-2409, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2409.International symbol of access special plates; placard;
definitions
A.The department shall
issue special plates bearing the international symbol of access to either:
1.A person who has
permanent physical disabilities and
who is an owner or lessee of a motor vehicle.
2.An organization that
owns or leases a motor vehicle that primarily transports persons with physical
disabilities.
B.A permanent
disability special plate issued under this section is valid for as long as the
person to whom the plate is issued qualifies for issuance under this section.
C.A person who has
permanent physical disabilities may obtain, if qualified, a permanent
disability removable windshield placard
whether or not the person is an owner or lessee of a motor vehicle.A
person who has a temporary physical disability may obtain, if qualified, a
temporary disability removable windshield placard whether or not the person is an owner or lessee of a motor
vehicle.An organization described in subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section may obtain, if qualified, a placard for each of the
qualified vehicles. The department shall issue only one valid placard to an
applicant with a temporary or permanent physical disability, except to replace
a lost, stolen or mutilated placard or if the department determines, on
receiving the applicant's written request, that the needs of the applicant are
such that up to three valid placards are required.The department
shall issue a placard pursuant to this section at no additional charge.
D.The department may
issue up to three permanent disability removable windshield placards to a
nonprofit organization that provides assistance to senior
citizens.The nonprofit organization shall maintain records on each
volunteer who uses these placards to transport persons with temporary or
permanent disabilities.
E.A permanent
disability removable windshield placard issued or renewed under this section is
valid for five years.A temporary disability removable windshield
placard issued or renewed under this section is valid for a period of time as
determined by the department.A person who desires to obtain a
temporary disability removable windshield placard for an additional period of
time shall submit a new application.
F.A person or an
organization described in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section that
desires to obtain a permanent disability or temporary disability removable
windshield placard or international symbol of access special plates shall
submit an application to the department of transportation on a form furnished
by the department of transportation that contains one of the following:
1.If a person with a
permanent or temporary disability, a medical certificate completed by a
hospital administrator, an authorized physician or a registered nurse
practitioner that certifies that the applicant has a physical disability.
2.If a person with a
disability who is a veteran and who is
has a one hundred per cent a person with a percent disability, a copy of
the person's certificate of one hundred per
cent percent disability
issued by the United States department of veterans affairs.
3.If an organization, a
signed statement by an authorized officer of the organization affirming that
the registered vehicle that is owned or leased by the organization and that
will display the placard or the international symbol of access special plates
primarily transports persons with physical disabilities.
G.On receipt of the
application containing the medical certificate, the certificate of one hundred per cent percent disability issued by the United States
department of veterans affairs or the signed statement, if the department of
transportation finds that the applicant qualifies for the parking privileges
pursuant to chapter 3, article 14 of this title, the department of
transportation shall issue the placard or international symbol of access
special plates.
H.A person or an
organization described in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section that
desires to renew a permanent disability removable windshield placard shall
submit an application to the department containing one of the following:
1.If a permanent disability person with a permanent disability, a signed
statement by the person that is witnessed by a department agent or notary
public, that requests the renewal of the placard and that affirms that the
person has a physical disability.
2.If an organization, a
signed statement by an authorized officer of the organization affirming that
the registered vehicle that is owned or leased by the organization and that
will display the placard primarily transports persons with physical
disabilities.
I.The placard or
international symbol of access special plates shall be displayed on or in the
motor vehicle in the manner prescribed by the department.
J.A request for special
plates issued under this section may be combined with a request for an honored
military license plate issued under article 13 of this chapter or any other
special plate. The department shall prescribe the form for the request. The
request is subject to payment of only the fee required for the honored military
license plate or other special plate and is not subject to any other special
plate fee under section 282402.An international symbol of
access special plate that is combined with an honored military license plate or
any other special plate is not a personalized special plate under section 282406.
K.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Authorized
physician" means a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, podiatry or
chiropractic licensed to practice medicine in this state or another state or
authorized by the United States government to practice medicine.
2."Permanent
disability removable windshield placard" means a twosided, hooked
placard that includes on each side all of the following:
(a)The international
symbol of access that is at least three inches in height, that is centered on
the placard and that is white on a blue shield.
(b)An identification
number.
(c)An expiration date.
(d)The seal or other
identification of the issuing authority.
3."Person with a
physical disability" means a person who, as determined by a hospital
administrator or authorized physician, meets any of the following conditions:
(a)Cannot walk two
hundred feet without stopping to rest.
(b)Cannot walk without
the use of or assistance from any brace, cane, crutch, other person, prosthetic
device, wheelchair or other assistive device.
(c)Is restricted by
lung disease to such an extent that the person's forced respiratory, expiratory
volume for one second, if measured by spirometry, is less than one liter, or
the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty mm/Hg on room air at rest.
(d)Uses portable
oxygen.
(e)Has a cardiac
condition to the extent that the person's functional limitations are classified
in severity as class III or class IV according to standards set by the American
heart association.
(f)Is severely limited
in the person's ability to walk due to an arthritic, neurological or orthopedic
condition.
4."Temporary
disability removable windshield placard" means a twosided, hooked
placard that includes on each side all of the following:
(a)The international
symbol of access that is at least three inches in height, that is centered on
the placard and that is white on a red shield.
(b)An identification
number.
(c)A date of
expiration.
(d)The seal or other
identification of the issuing authority. END_STATUTE

