







REFERENCE TITLE: cooperative associations







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2614









Introduced by
Representative
  Gray, Senator Begay





AN ACT

amending sections
10-2001, 10-2003, 10-2005, 10-2008, 10-2016, 10-2018 and 10-2026, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to cooperative associations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 10, chapter 19, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "CORPORATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS NOT FOR
PROFIT" to "COOPERATIVES AND FRATERNAL AND BENEVOLENT
SOCIETIES".
Sec.2.Section 10-2001, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2001.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Active member" is a member growing, producing, manufacturing, marketing,
distributing or selling a product handled by the association at
the time of the membership meeting, or who during the previous year, delivered
products to the association.
2."Agricultural products" includes
horticultural, viticultural, forestry, dairy, livestock, poultry, bee and any
farm products.
3."Association" means a corporation
organized under the provisions of
this article.
4."Marketing agreement" or "marketing contract" means any
agreement entered into between an association organized under this article and
its members, by the terms of which a subscribing grower, producer, manufacturer, marketer, distributor or seller
and all other growers, producers,
manufacturers, marketers, distributors or sellers signing similar
agreements, agree to sell their agricultural products, goods for import or export purposes or hydroponic
greenhouses to or through such association.
5."Member" includes members of
associations and, For associations
organized pursuant to section 10-2003, subsection A, paragraph 3, also includes
investors. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 10-2003, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2003.Requirements for formation; association profits
A.Five or
more persons engaged in the production of agricultural products The following may form a nonprofit, cooperative
association with or without
capital stock under the provisions of
this article: .
1.Five or
more persons engaged in the production of agricultural products.
2.Five or
more small businesses, individuals or entities engaged in the marketing and
distribution of manufactured goods for import and export purposes.
3.Five or
more persons for the purpose of producing, manufacturing and selling hydroponic
greenhouses or for the purpose of growing food.
B.Associations organized under this article shall not may make profits for themselves or for their
members, but only for their members as
producers. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 10-2005, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2005.Powers of association
An association incorporated under this article may:
1.Engage in any activity in connection with the
marketing, harvesting, processing, storing, handling or utilization of
agricultural products or their byproducts delivered to it, or the
providing of labor, or in connection with the purchase, hiring or use by its
patrons of supplies, machinery or equipment, or in the financing of any such
activities, but the associations shall not deal in the products of nonmembers
to an amount greater in value than that of products handled for members.
2.Borrow money and make advances on products
delivered.
3.Act as the agent or representative of any member
or patron in such activities.
4.Acquire, hold, own and exercise all rights of
ownership in, and sell, transfer or pledge shares of the capital stock or
bonds, or become a member or a stockholder of any corporation or association
engaged in a related activity or in the handling, marketing or financing of any
products handled by the association, but stocks, bonds or other securities
owned by a subsidiary may not be pledged, sold or otherwise disposed of until thirty
days notice has been given to all members of the association in the manner
provided by its bylaws.Such stock, bonds and other securities of a
subsidiary may be placed with the state treasurer for safe keeping, and he
shall not surrender them until proof of notice as required by this article has
been given.
5.Establish reserves and invest the funds thereof
in stocks and bonds of any corporation or association engaged in a related
activity, or in the handling, marketing, processing or financing of the
products handled by the association, or in such other property as the board of
directors of the association deems satisfactory.
6.Do any act necessary to carry out the specific
powers conferred by this article, and do such acts within or without the state.
7.Possess the powers, rights and privileges of
corporations organized under the general law of the state, unless inconsistent
with this article.
8.Engage in
any activity in connection with the marketing or distribution of manufactured
goods for import and export purposes or the providing of labor, in connection
with the purchase, hiring or use by the association's patrons of supplies,
machinery or equipment, or in connection with the financing of any such
activities, but the association may not deal in the products of nonmembers to
an amount greater in value than that of products handled for members.
9.Engage in
any activity involving the harvesting, processing, storing, handling or use of
products for the production, manufacturing and sale of hydroponic greenhouses
or the providing of labor, in connection with the purchase, hiring or use by
the association's patrons of supplies, machinery or equipment, or in connection
with the financing of any such activities, but the association may not deal in
the products of nonmembers to an amount greater in value than that of products
handled for members.
10.Raise
equity from nonprofit investors and patron members. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
10-2008, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2008.Eligibility for membership
A.Under the terms and conditions
prescribed in its bylaws bylaws, an association may
admit as members persons engaged in production of the agricultural products to
be handled by or through the association, including lessees and tenants of land
used for production of such products, lessors and landlords who receive as rent
part of the crop raised on the leased premises and persons or corporations
regularly engaged in financing production of the agricultural commodities.
B.In
addition to the requirements prescribed by subsection A of this section, an
investor may be a member of an association that is established pursuant to
section 10-2003, subsection A, paragraph 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 10-2016, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2016.Marketing contracts; remedies for breach
A.The association and its members may make and
execute marketing contracts requiring the members to sell, for any period of
time not over ten years, all or any specified part of their agricultural
products, or their specified commodities, their manufactured goods for import and
export purposes or their hydroponic greenhouses exclusively to or
through the association or its facilities.
B.The membership contract may provide for
membership for a longer period than ten years but not exceeding thirty years,
if the contract provides opportunity to the members for withdrawal at least
once each year.
C.The contract may provide that the association may
sell the products of its members, with or without taking title thereto, and pay
to its members the average sale price based on grade and quantity, after
deducting all necessary selling, overhead and other costs and expenses.
D.When provided in the bylaws bylaws, the marketing contract may fix, as
liquidated damages, specific sums to be paid by the members to the association
upon the breach by him of any provision of the marketing contract regarding the
sale or delivery or withholding of products, and that the member will pay all
costs, premiums for bonds, expenses and fees if an action is brought upon the
contract by the association, and such provision shall be valid and enforceable
in the courts.
E.In event of a breach, or threatened breach, of
the marketing contract by a member, the association may apply for an injunction
to prevent the further breach of the contract, and to enforce specific
performance thereof. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 10-2018, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2018.Investments; limitation; disposition of profits
A.An association may organize, form, operate, own,
control, have an interest in, own stock of or be a member of any other
corporation, with or without capital stock, engaged in processing, handling,
utilizing, manufacturing, marketing, financing or selling agricultural products handled by the
association, or the byproducts thereof.
B.Profits or income received from the investments
provided for in subsection A may be added to the reserves of the association to
be distributed or handled according to the discretion of the board of
directors.
C.An association may enter into agreements and
arrangements with another cooperative corporation or association formed in this
or any other state for the cooperative and more economical carrying on of its
business, or any part thereof.Any two or more associations may by
agreement unite in employing and using the same methods, means and agencies for
conducting their businesses. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 10-2026, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2026.Merger, interest exchange, conversion, domestication or
division; definitions
A.A domestic cooperative marketing association may
be a party to or otherwise undertake a merger, an interest exchange, a
conversion, a domestication or a division by complying with chapter 34 of this
title and title 29, chapter 6.
B.If a domestic cooperative marketing association
is to be created in a merger, a conversion, a domestication or a division, the
initial members of the association must consist of any of the following:
1.Five
or more persons engaged in the production of agricultural products in accordance with pursuant to section 102003,
subsection A.
2.Five or
more small businesses, individuals or entities engaged in the marketing and
distribution of manufactured goods for import and export purposes.
3.Five or
more persons for the purpose of producing, manufacturing and selling hydroponic
greenhouses or for the purpose of growing food.
C.For the purposes of this section, references in
chapter 34 of this title to a "corporation" are deemed references to
a domestic cooperative marketing association.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Conversion" means a transaction
authorized by title 29, chapter 6, article 4.
2."Division" means a transaction
authorized by title 29, chapter 6, article 6.
3."Domestication" means a transaction
authorized by title 29, chapter 6, article 5.
4."Interest exchange" means a transaction
authorized by title 29, chapter 6, article 3.
5."Merger" means a transaction authorized
by title 29, chapter 6, article 2. END_STATUTE

