







REFERENCE TITLE: public buildings; energy conservation.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2603









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Benally, Cardenas, Espinoza, Fernandez, Gonzales, Larkin: Andrade,
  Clark, Friese, Gabaldn, Mach, Velasquez





AN ACT

amending title
15, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15250;
amending section 34451, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41,
chapter 10, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 411509;
relating to energy conservation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
15, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 15-250, to read:
START_STATUTE15-250.Green cleaning policy; purchases of environmentally
sensitive cleaning products; exception; guidelines
A.On or before December 31, 2017, all school
districts and charter schools shall adopt a green cleaning policy and shall
purchase and use environmentally sensitive cleaning products. A school
district or charter school may deplete its existing cleaning products before
purchasing and using environmentally sensitive cleaning products.
B.If adopting a green cleaning policy is not
economically feasible, until it becomes economically feasible, the school
district or charter school shall provide annual written notification to the
department of education, on a form provided by the department, that the
development and implementation of a green cleaning policy is not economically
feasible. Adopting a green cleaning policy is not economically feasible if
doing so would result in any increase in the cleaning costs of the school
district or charter school.
C.The department of education shall determine
green cleaning supply guidelines and specifications after consulting with the
department of environmental quality.After determining the guidelines
and specifications, the department of education shall provide each school
district and charter school with a written copy of the guidelines and
specifications.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
34-451, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE34-451.Energy conservation standards for public buildings
A.The governor's energy
office, in
consultation with persons responsible for building systems, shall adopt and publish energy conservation
standards for construction of all new capital projects as defined in section 41790,
including buildings designed and constructed by school districts, community
college districts and universities.These standards shall be
consistent with the recommended energy conservation standards of the American
society of heating, refrigerating and air conditioning engineers and the
international energy conservation code.
B.The standards shall
be adopted to achieve energy conservation and shall allow for design
flexibility.
C.The following state
agencies shall reduce energy use in public buildings that they administer by
ten per cent percent per square foot of
floor area on or before July 1, 2008, and by fifteen per cent percent per square foot of floor area on or
before July 1, 2011 and by twenty percent per square foot of
floor area on or before July 1, 2024, using July 1, 2001 through
June 30, 2002 as the baseline year:
1.The department of
administration for its building systems.
2.The Arizona board of
regents for its building systems.
3.The department of
transportation for its building systems.
D.The governor's energy
office shall provide technical assistance to the state agencies prescribed in
subsection C of this section.On or before July 1 of each year, the
energy office shall
measure compliance with subsection C of this section, compile the results of
that monitoring and report to the speaker of the house of representatives and
the president of the senate as to the progress of attaining the goals
prescribed in subsection C of this section.The energy office shall
include in its report an explanation of the reasons for any failure to achieve
energy reductions in specific building systems as prescribed in subsection C of
this section.
E.All state agencies
shall procure energy efficient products that are certified by the United States
department of energy or the United States environmental protection agency as
energy star or that are certified under the federal energy management program
in all categories that are available unless the products are shown not to be
costeffective on a life cycle cost basis.
F.On or before July 1, 2021, all state agencies,
universities, school districts and community college districts shall purchase
at least ten percent of their energy requirements in public buildings that they
administer from green sources. For the purposes of this subsection,
"green sources" means renewable and nonpolluting energy sources and
includes solar, wind, landfill gas and low-impact hydroelectric generation.
G.On or before July 1, 2021, all existing state
buildings that are more than fifty thousand square feet shall conform to the
leadership in energy and environmental design existing buildings standards,
including the green building rating system developed by the United States green
building council, in a manner prescribed by the governor's energy
office.The governor's energy office shall monitor the United States
green building council for changes to the rating system that impact existing
state buildings.
H.All new or leased state buildings shall
conform to the leadership in energy and environmental design green building
rating system developed by the united states green building council in a manner
prescribed by the governor's office of energy policy.The governor's
energy office shall monitor the United States green building council for
changes to the rating system that impact state buildings. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 41,
chapter 10, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
41-1509, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1509.Energy and water efficiency fund for
public facilities; loans; repayment; program termination
A.The energy and water efficiency fund for
public facilities is established to be administered by the authority. The fund
consists of monies appropriated by the legislature, earnings from the fund,
gifts or grants donated or given to the fund and monies authorized pursuant to
this section. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation and
shall be used as prescribed by this section.
B.On notice from the chief executive officer,
the state treasurer may invest and divest monies in the fund as provided by
section 35313.The state treasurer shall credit monies earned
from investments to the fund.
C.The authority shall establish a program for
the benefit of state agencies, universities, cities and towns, counties and
political subdivisions, but not including special districts, to provide loans
to finance energy and water efficiency measures for public
facilities.The authority shall make available the sum of ten
million dollars from the Arizona commerce authority fund established by section
411506 for the purpose of funding approved loans pursuant to this
section.The authority shall allocate at least ten million dollars,
including loan commitments and cash on hand, to the program and shall
administer the monies under its control in a manner that ensures that monies
available to the program equal or exceed five million dollars at all times.
D.The authority shall determine the terms under
which it may make a loan pursuant to this section and shall prescribe the interest
rate for a loan at the lowest rate that the authority determines is sufficient
to recover the cost of administering the loan program.
E.An entity that receives a loan under this
section shall repay the principal of and interest on the loan from the value of
energy or water savings that accrues as the result of the energy or water
conservation measure implemented with the borrowed monies. An entity that
receives a loan under this section shall repay the loan from the amount
budgeted for the agency's or entity's energy and water costs. Until the loan
is repaid, the legislature may not reduce the amount budgeted for those energy
or water costs to reflect the value of energy or water savings that accrues as
a result of the energy or water conservation measure implemented with the
borrowed monies.
F.The program established pursuant to this
section ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to section 413102. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Green public schools task force; membership;
duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The green public
schools task force is established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the
senate who are appointed by the president of the senate and who represent
different political parties.
2.Two members of the
house of representatives who are appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives and who represent different political parties.
3.The chief executive
officer of the Arizona commerce authority or the chief executive officer's
designee.
4.The executive
director of the school facilities board or the executive director's designee.
5.The superintendent of
public instruction or the superintendent's designee.
6.A member of a
nonprofit organization that is dedicated to sustainable building design and
construction.The governor shall appoint this member.
7.One representative of
a statewide organization of school district governing board
members.The president of the senate shall appoint this member.
8.One representative of
a statewide organization of school district administrators.The
speaker of the house of representatives shall appoint this member.
9.A member of the
public. The governor shall appoint this member.
B.The task force shall:
1.Identify the
procedures and methods to retrofit public schools in this state to conform to
the leadership in energy and environmental design building standards.
2.Recommend a model
green cleaning policy for public schools in this state.
3.Make recommendations
relating to the establishment and financing of a system to ensure that existing
public schools are retrofitted and new public schools are constructed in a
manner that promotes energy efficiency and sustainability.
4.Submit to the
governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives a report of its findings and recommendations on or before
November 1, 2017.The task force shall provide a copy of its report
to the secretary of state.
C.Task force members
are not eligible to receive compensation, but members appointed pursuant to
subsection A, paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this section are eligible for
reimbursement of expenses under title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes.
D.This section is
repealed from and after December 31, 2017.

