







REFERENCE TITLE: study; state board; community colleges







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2638









Introduced by
Representative
  Saldate





AN ACT

establishing the
state board for community colleges study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.State board for community colleges study committee;
members; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The state board for community colleges study
committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who are
members of different political parties.
2.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who are members of different political parties.
3.One member of a community college district
governing board from a community college district that is located in a county
with a population of seven hundred thousand or more persons who is appointed
by the president of the senate.
4.One member of a community college district
governing board from a community college district that is located in a county
with a population of less than seven hundred thousand persons who is appointed
by the speaker of the house of representatives.
5.One member of a provisional community college
district governing board who is appointed by the governor.
6.One member of the Arizona board of regents who is
appointed by the governor.
7.One member of a statewide organization that
represents community colleges who is appointed by the speaker of the house of
representatives.
B.Members of the study committee are not eligible
to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant
to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
C.A majority of the members of the study committee
constitutes a quorum.
D.The study committee members shall select a chairperson
from among its members.
E.The study committee shall:
1.Examine the impact that the establishment of a
state board for community colleges would have on the coordination between
community colleges and universities in this state.
2.Review the impact that a state board for
community colleges would have on improving the operations and educational
standards of the community colleges in this state.
3.Evaluate how a state board for community colleges
would assist in the accreditation efforts of the community colleges in this
state.
F.The study committee shall submit a report of its
findings and recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate and
the speaker of the house of representatives on or before December 1, 2016 and
shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
G.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2016.

