







REFERENCE TITLE: transfer of public lands; compact







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2644









Introduced by
Representatives
  Barton, Thorpe: Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending title
37, chapter 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 3; relating to
public lands.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 37, chapter 5, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 3, to read:
ARTICLE 3.Interstate COMPACT
on the
TRANSFER OF PUBLIC LANDS
START_STATUTE37-941.Adoption and text of interstate compact on the transfer of
public lands
The interstate compact
on the transfer of public lands is adopted and enacted into law as follows:
Interstate compact on the transfer of public lands
Whereas, the separation
of powers, both between the branches of the federal government and between
federal and state authority, is essential to the preservation of individual
liberty;
Whereas, the
Constitution of the United States creates a federal government of limited and
enumerated powers and reserves to the states or to the people those powers not
expressly granted to the federal government to protect the liberty of
individual property incidental to the sovereignty and health, safety and
welfare of its citizens;
Whereas, each state
adopting and agreeing to be bound by this compact finds that the coordinated,
regular, institutional exercise of its sovereign power under its respective
constitution and the Constitution of the United States is an essential
component of the governing partnership between the states and the federal
government;
Now, therefore, the
states hereto resolve and, by the adoption into law under their respective
state constitutions of this interstate compact on the transfer of public lands,
agree, as follows:
Section1.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Associate
member state" means any state that is not a member state.
2."Compact"
means the interstate compact on the transfer of public lands.
3."Compact
administrator" means the person who is selected by the compact commission
to staff the compact commission and whose duties, powers and tenure are only
those approved by the commission.
4."Compact
commission" means the entity composed of member state representatives who
will administer the compact.
5."Member
state" means any of the following states that are a signatory to the
compact and that have adopted it under the laws of that
state:Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana,
Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.
Section2.Purpose of the compact and
commission
The purpose of the compact
and the compact commission is to study, collect data and develop political and
legal mechanisms for securing the transfer to the respective member states of
certain specially identified federally controlled public lands within the
respective member state boundaries.
Section3.Compact commission and compact
administrator
A.The
compact commission is hereby established and has the powers and duties as
follows:
1.Elect, by
majority vote, a chairperson and vice chairperson from among the compact's members,
who shall serve a term of office of two years and may serve no more than two
terms as chairperson or vice chairperson.
2.Appoint a
compact administrator who shall report to the chairperson and the vice
chairperson.
3.Request
and disburse funds for the operation of the compact commission.
4.Allow the
compact commission to seek staff and research assistance from nonprofit
organizations.
5.Adopt
parliamentary procedures and public bylaws consistent with member states.
6.Receive,
evaluate and respond to input from compact commission members regarding actions
taken by the federal government that interfere with the:
(a)Powers reserved to the state.
(b)Regulation of real property,
including land titles, uses and transfers. 
(c)Regulation of agriculture and
nonagriculture businesses that do not engage in interstate commerce. 
(d)Jurisdiction for the health,
safety and welfare of the state's residents.
7.Keep and
publish minutes of compact commission meetings and records of the compact administrator,
both of which shall be considered public records and available on request by
the public.
8.Prepare
an annual report of the compact commission's activities for member and
associate member states.
B.The
compact administrator shall staff the compact commission, perform duties and
exercise powers as granted by the commission, or as directed by the chairperson
or vice chairperson.
C.A
majority of the member state representatives present at a compact commission
meeting constitutes a quorum and an action of the quorum constitutes an action
of the compact commission.Each member state shall have one official
representative who shall have one vote.
D.The
compact commission may not take any action within a member or associate member
state that contravenes any state law of that member or associate member state.
Section4.Compact membership and withdrawal
A.Each
member and associate member state agrees to perform and comply in accordance
with the terms of membership of this compact consistent with the constitution
and laws of the member or associate member state.Actions by members
of the compact, for the purpose for which it was created, are based on the
mutual participation, reliance and reciprocal performance in agreeing to enact
this compact into law.
B.A state
enacting this compact into law shall appoint one official representative to the
compact commission and shall provide to the compact commission a letter of that
representative's appointment.A copy of the letter of appointment with
a government-issued photo identity card shall constitute proof of membership on
the compact commission.
C.For
voting purposes, only a member state representative may vote and each member
state may have only one vote.
D.A member
or associate member state may withdraw from this compact by enacting
legislation and giving notice of the enacted withdrawal legislation to the
compact administrator.No such withdrawal shall take effect until
six months following the enactment of withdrawal legislation, and a withdrawing
state is liable for any obligations that it may have incurred prior to the date
on which its withdrawal legislation becomes effective.
Section5.Adoption of compact
On a state adopting the
compact and notifying the compact administrator, the administrator shall notify
all other member states of the adoption by sending an updated certified copy of
the compact with the new adoptee state listed.
Section6.Commission meetings
A.The
initial meeting of the compact commission shall be within ninety days after the
compact is enacted by two or more states. The official representatives of the
enacting states shall determine the date, time and location of the initial
meeting and publish that information in their respective states in a manner consistent
with the laws of those states for posting notifications and agendas of public
meetings.At the initial meeting, those official representatives
shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson as provided in section 3 of this
compact and appoint a compact administrator.The compact
administrator, as directed by the compact commission chairpersons and as
provided in the compact, shall organize the compact commission's activities.
B.Following
the compact commission's initial meeting, the compact commission shall meet at
least one time per year.No meeting shall continue longer than three
consecutive days.
C.Special
meetings may be called if one-half or more of the member states notify the
chairperson of the compact commission in writing of the request for a
meeting.Attendance at the meeting may be in person or by electronic
means.
D.Meetings
shall be recorded, and the recording and minutes of the meeting shall be made
available to the public within thirty days after the
meeting.Meetings closed to the public are not permitted except
where provided by law in the state in which the meeting is held.
Section7.Funding
A.The
compact commission shall pay, or provide for the payment of, the reasonable
expenses of its establishment, organization and ongoing activities.
B.The
compact commission may accept any appropriate revenue sources, donations and
grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials and services.
C.The
compact commission, in accordance with subsections D and E of this section, may
levy on and collect an annual assessment from each member state or impose fees
on other parties to cover the cost of the operations and activities of the
compact commission and the compact commission's staff that must be in a total
amount sufficient to cover the compact commission's annual budget as approved
each year for which revenue is not provided by other sources.
D.The
compact commission may not levy and collect an annual assessment against a
member state if the member state:
1.Votes
against the annual assessment.
2.Was
absent from the compact commission meeting during which the compact commission
voted to approve the annual assessment.
3.Within
sixty days after the vote to impose the annual assessment, notifies the compact
commission in writing that the member state does not consent to the levy of the
annual assessment.
E.The
aggregate annual assessment amount shall be allocated based on a formula to be
determined by the compact commission, which shall adopt a rule that is binding
on all member states.
F.The
compact commission shall not incur obligations of any kind before securing the
funds adequate to meet the obligation, nor shall the compact commission pledge
the credit of any of the member states, except by and with the authority of the
member state.
G.The
compact commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements, and that information shall be available within thirty days on
request by a compact commission member or by a member state or associate member
state.All receipts and disbursements of funds handled by the
compact commission shall be audited yearly by a certified or licensed public
accountant, and the report of the audit shall be included in the annual report
of the commission.
Section8.Cooperation
The compact commission,
member states, associate member states and compact administrator shall
cooperate and offer mutual assistance with each other in enforcing the terms of
the compact for securing the transfer of title to federally controlled public
lands to willing western states.
Section 9.Declaration of interstate compact on
the transfer of public lands goals
A.Member
states, in order to restore, protect and promote state sovereignty and the
health, safety and welfare of their citizens, shall:
1.Develop
and draft model uniform legislation for member states to adopt in securing
sovereignty and jurisdiction over federal lands within the respective member
state boundaries.
2.Develop
and draft model uniform legislation for member states to send to their federal
delegation for introduction in Congress for the transfer of federally
controlled public lands to the respective member state governments.
3.Develop
legal strategies for securing state sovereignty and jurisdiction over federally
controlled public lands within member state boundaries.
B.The
compact goals in subsection A of this section take effect when:
1.Two
states have become member states and adopted the terms in legislation.
2.Congress
votes to consent to the terms of this compact under United States Constitution
article I, section 10.
START_STATUTE37-942.Administration of compact; appointment of official
representative
a.The state
land department is designated as the agency responsible for performing any
administrative duties assigned to this state by the compact commission.
b.The
governor shall appoint the official representative of this state to the compact
commission pursuant to section 38-211. END_STATUTE
C.The
qualifications of candidates for appointment as the official representative of
this state to the compact commission shall be reviewed by a committee
consisting of the following members who are appointed by the speaker of the house
of representatives:
1.One
member who has experience in forestry.
2.One
member who has experience in ranching and grazing.
3.One
member who is a member of the state bar of Arizona and who has experience in a
practice area involving natural resources.
4.One
member who has experience in land management.
5.One
member who has experience in mining.
6.One
member who has legislative experience.
7.One
member who represents a conservation organization.
8.One
member who represents an irrigation and water conservation district established
pursuant to title 48, chapter 19 or an irrigation water delivery district
established pursuant to title 48, chapter 20.
9.One
member who represents a natural resource conservation district established
pursuant to chapter 6 of this title.
D.The
committee shall submit to the governor at least three names but not more than
five names of the most qualified candidates for appointment.
E.A new
committee shall be appointed for each vacancy in the position of official
representative of this state to the compact commission.
f.notwithstanding
section 413103, the committee does not include a specific expiration
date.

