







REFERENCE TITLE: medical marijuana dispensaries; location
  change







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2618









Introduced by
Representative
  Leach





AN ACT

Amending section
362804, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to medical marijuana.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Subject to the requirements of
article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of Arizona, section 36-2804,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2804.Registration and certification of nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensaries
A. Nonprofit medical marijuana dispensaries shall
register with the department.
B. Not later than ninety days after receiving
an application for a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary, the department
shall register the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and issue a
registration certificate and a random 20-digit
twentydigit alphanumeric
identification number if:
1.The prospective nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary has submitted the following:
(a)The application fee.
(b)An application, including:
(i)The legal name of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary.
(ii)The physical address of the nonprofit medical
marijuana dispensary and the physical address of one additional location, if
any, where marijuana will be cultivated, neither of which may be within five
hundred feet of a public or private school existing before the date of the
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary application.
(iii)The name, address and date of birth of each
principal officer and board member of the nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary.
(iv)The name, address and date of birth of each
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary agent.
(c)Operating procedures consistent with department
rules for oversight of the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary, including
procedures to ensure accurate record-keeping
recordkeeping and
adequate security measures.
(d)If the city, town or county in which the
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary would be located has enacted zoning
restrictions, a sworn statement certifying that the registered nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary is in compliance with the restrictions.
2.None of the principal officers or board members
has been convicted of an excluded felony offense.
3.None of the principal officers or board members
has served as a principal officer or board member for a registered nonprofit
medical marijuana dispensary that has had its registration certificate revoked.
4.None of the principal officers or board members
is under twenty-one years of age.
C.The department may not issue more than one
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary registration certificate for every ten
pharmacies that have registered under section 32-1929, have obtained a pharmacy
permit from the Arizona state board
of pharmacy and operate within the state except that the department may issue
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary registration certificates in excess of
this limit if necessary to ensure that the department issues at least one
nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary registration certificate in each county
in which an application has been approved.
D.After the
department issues a registration certificate, a nonprofit medical marijuana
dispensary may change the location of the dispensary or the cultivation site
only to another location in the same community health analysis area as
established by the department at the time the original registration certificate
was issued, and the new dispensary is subject to the other requirements
required for a new dispensary.
D.E.The
department may conduct a criminal records check in order to carry out this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 36-2804, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, is
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members
of each house of the legislature.

