







REFERENCE TITLE: municipalities; taxes and fees;
  notification







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2635









Introduced by
Representative
  Weninger





AN ACT

Amending section
9-499.15, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to municipal taxes and fees.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-499.15, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-499.15.Proposed new or increased municipal taxes and fees;
notification; exceptions
A.A municipality may not levy or assess any new
taxes or fees or increase existing taxes or fees pursuant to statute on a business
without complying with this section.
B.A municipality that proposes to levy or assess a
tax or fee shall:
1.Prepare a
schedule of the proposed new or increased tax or fee that includes the amount
of the tax or fee and a written report or data that supports the new or
increased tax or fee. A copy of the report or data shall be filed in the office
of the clerk of the municipality.
1.2.If
the imposition of the proposed tax or fee is a new charge, provide written
notice of the proposed charge, the
schedule of the proposed new charge and the written report or data that
supports the new charge on the home page of the municipality's
website at least sixty days before the date the proposed new tax or fee is
approved or disapproved by the governing body of the municipality.
2.3.If
the municipality proposes to increase the rate of an existing tax or fee on a
business, provide written notice of the proposed increase, the
schedule of the proposed increased tax or fee and the written report or data that
supports the proposed increased tax or fee on the home page of
the municipality's website at least sixty days before the date the proposed new
rate is approved or disapproved by the governing body of the municipality.
4.Prepare a
notice of intent to establish or increase taxes or fees. The notice of intent
shall include the date, time and place of the meeting of the governing body of
the municipality in which the proposed new or increased tax or fee will be
considered and a statement that a schedule of the proposed new or increased tax
or fee that includes the amount of the tax or fee and a written report or data
that supports the new or increased tax or fee is available on the
municipality's website. The notice of intent shall be posted on the municipality's
website at least fifteen days before the date the proposed new or increased tax
or fee will be approved or disapproved by the governing body of the
municipality. If the municipality uses social media or other electronic
communication tools, the notice of intent SHALL BE distributed through the
municipality's social media accounts or other electronic communication tools.
C.All
departments, boards or other subdivisions of a municipality that are authorized
to establish or modify taxes or fees shall follow the notice requirements
prescribed in subsection B of this section before the date of the entity's
consideration of the new or increased tax or fee.
d.Technological
issues that either prevent the posting of the notice on the municipality's
website or distribution of the notice through social media or other electronic
communication tools does not preclude the governing body of the municipality
from approving or disapproving the new or increased tax or fee at the meeting
provided on the notice of intent.
C.E.A
municipality shall demonstrate that the taxes or fees are imposed pursuant to
statute.
D.F.This section does Subsections A and B of this section do not
apply to:
1.Any
fee adopted pursuant to section 9463.05.
2.Water and
wastewater rates or rate components.
3.Fees for
registration-based classes, programs or activities provided by the
municipality.
4.Court
fees established pursuant to state law.
5.Fees or
charges established pursuant to federal law for public housing or other federally
funded programs.
6.Other
fees whose amounts are set by state or federal law.
G.If
information is made available relating to the fees provided in subsection F of
this section, that information shall be posted on the municipality's website
and, if the municipality uses social media or other electronic communication
tools, distributed through social media or other electronic communication
tools.
E.H.In
addition to any other limitation that may be imposed by law, a municipality
shall not levy or impose an assessment, fee or tax on hospital revenues,
discharges, beds or services for the purpose of receiving services or payments
pursuant to title 36, chapter 29. END_STATUTE

