







REFERENCE TITLE: state board; community colleges







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2637









Introduced by
Representative
  Saldate





AN ACT

Repealing section
151427, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15, chapter 12, article
2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding sections 15-1421, 15-1422, 15-1423,
15-1424, 15-1425, 15-1426, 15-1427, 15-1428 and 15-1429; amending Title 41,
chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 41-3027.01;
relating to community colleges.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 15-1427,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 15, chapter 12, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding sections 15-1421, 15-1422,
15-1423, 15-1424, 15-1425, 151426, 15-1427, 15-1428 and 15-1429, to
read:
START_STATUTE15-1421.State board of directors for community colleges; members;
appointments; terms; vacancy; oath
A.the state
board of directors for community colleges is established consisting of fifteen
members, one from each county, who are appointed by the governor pursuant to section
38-211, a representative of the Arizona board of regents and the superintendent
of public instruction or the superintendent's designee. The designee shall have
the same powers on the board, including voting powers, as the superintendent of
public instruction. The designee shall serve at the discretion of the
superintendent of public instruction.
B.The term
of each member who is appointed by the governor is seven years, to begin and
end on the third Monday in January.
C.Notwithstanding
section 38-291, the office of a member of the state board of directors for
community colleges is deemed vacant if the person holding the office ceases to
be a resident of the county for which appointed.
D.Each
appointive member of the state board of directors for community colleges shall
take the oath of office before beginning service on the state
board.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1422.Officers; organization; meetings; immunity
A.The state
board of directors for community colleges shall appoint an executive director
who is not a member of the state board and select from its membership a
chairperson, a treasurer and any other officers it deems necessary. The state
board shall hold at least eight meetings annually and may hold such special
meetings, at the call of the chairperson, as may be deemed necessary or
advisable.
B.A
majority of the membership of the state board constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting regularly called, but a number less than
a quorum may adjourn from time to time.
C.Members
of the state board are immune from personal liability with respect to all acts
done and actions taken in good faith within the scope of their authority during
duly constituted regular and special meetings.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1423.Compensation of executive director and board members
A.The
executive director of the state board of directors for community colleges shall
receive compensation as determined pursuant to section 38-611.
B.All
members of the state board except the superintendent of public instruction or
the superintendent's designee shall receive compensation as determined pursuant
to section 38-611 for each day of attendance at board meetings.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1424.General powers and duties of state board; definition
A.The state board of directors for community
colleges may:
1.Adopt a corporate seal.
2.Contract
with any person.
3.Sue and
be sued.
4.Adopt
rules concerning and prescribe limitations on contracting by district boards.
5.Conduct
pilot projects for implementing cooperative agreements between community
college districts and high school districts and other vocational and technical
education and employment training providers.
6.Adopt
rules regarding the construction, remodeling and repair of buildings that
permit district boards to accomplish minor construction, remodeling and repair
projects without prior approval of the state board.
7.On the
request of a district board, waive tuitions and fees and graduate the tuition
and fee waivers for a student in any of the institutions under the district
board's jurisdiction if the student is one of the following:
(a)An employee or the spouse or
dependent child of an employee of the community college district.
(b)A nonresident student enrolled
in the community college district, if the state board and district board
determine the waiver is in the best interests of this state and the student.
B.The state
board shall determine the location within the district of a community college
and shall purchase, receive, hold, make and take leases of and sell real
property for the benefit of this state and for the use of the community
colleges under its jurisdiction. Notwithstanding this subsection, the state
board may delegate to district boards the power to lease or lease-purchase real
property, including buildings and improvements to the property, as lessor or as
lessee.
c.The state
board may enter into lease or lease-purchase agreements for real property,
including buildings and improvements to the property.
D.a Lease
or lease-purchase agreement authorized by this section does not create an
obligation of payment by the district under the terms of the lease or
lease-purchase agreement for periods longer than fifteen years.
e.The
amount of outstanding indebtedness due to acquisition of real property by
lease-purchase per community college district may not exceed two million five
hundred thousand dollars in any one year and fifteen million dollars in the
aggregate. At the request of a district board, the state board may pledge
tuitions, fees, rentals and other charges to any payments due under
lease-purchase agreements.
f.Notwithstanding
subsection e of this section, periodic payments and any option payments for
acquisition of real property by lease-purchase are restricted to payment from
capital outlay funds.
g.community
college Districts that acquire real property by lease-purchase are not entitled
to receive monies pursuant to section 15-1463 pertaining to the specific real
property acquired by lease-purchase.
H.Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, payments on lease or lease-purchase agreements
entered into pursuant to this section are an obligation of the district within
the meaning of the constitutional limit against indebtedness prescribed in article
IX, section 8, Constitution of Arizona.
i.If the
state board or, under authority of the state board, a district acquires real or
personal property, whether by purchase, exchange, condemnation, gift or
otherwise, the state board or district shall pay to the county treasurer any
taxes on the property that were unpaid as of the date of acquisition, including
penalties and interest. The lien for unpaid delinquent taxes, penalties and
interest on property acquired by the state board or a district:
1.Is not
abated, extinguished, discharged or merged in the title to the property.
2.Is
enforceable in the same manner as other delinquent tax liens.
j.The state
board may accept grants or donations of monies from the United States, or from
any of its agencies, departments or officers, or from any person, corporation,
foundation or association. The state board shall deposit, pursuant to sections
35-146 and 35-147, the monies into a specific fund or account and shall
administer the monies in accordance with the purpose of the grant or donation
with specific rules or restrictions as described or stipulated in the grant or
donation. In the case of personal property granted or donated to or for the
benefit of a community college district, the state board shall immediately
transfer possession and ownership of the property to the designated district.
k.The state
board may establish a program for the exchange of students between the
community colleges under the state board's jurisdiction and colleges and
universities located in Sonora, Mexico. Notwithstanding section 15-1425,
paragraph 5, the program may provide for in-state tuition for up to fifty
Sonora students at the community colleges under the state board's jurisdiction
in exchange for similar tuition provisions for up to fifty Arizona students
enrolled or seeking enrollment in Sonora colleges and universities. The state
board and the community colleges may work in conjunction with the
Arizona-Mexico commission in the governor's office to coordinate recruitment
and admissions activities.
l.For the
purposes of this section, "Minor construction, remodeling and repair
projects" means those projects that cost no more than:
1.For
fiscal year 1986-1987, fifty thousand dollars.
2.Beginning
with fiscal year 1987-1988, the amount for the previous fiscal year adjusted by
the growth rate prescribed by law, subject to appropriation.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1425.General administrative powers of state board
The state board of directors for community colleges shall:
1.Enact ordinances for the government of the
institutions under its jurisdiction.
2.Set
standards for the establishment, development, administration, operation and
accreditation of community colleges.
3.Permit
and arrange for certification of experienced and qualified community leaders in
business, the professions and the arts for the purpose of teaching classes at a
community college in fields of their specific competence.
4.Establish
qualifications of the instructional staff and establish standards of vocational
and technical competence required to instruct in occupational as well as
academic subjects.
5.Fix
tuitions and fees that the community college districts shall charge and
graduate the tuitions and fees between institutions and between residents,
nonresidents and students from foreign countries.
6.Establish
curricula and designate courses at the several institutions that in its
judgment will best serve the interests of this state.
7.Fix and
collect fees for issuance and renewal of certificates as provided in paragraphs
3 and 4 of this section. The state board shall deposit, pursuant to sections
35-146 and 35-147, all fees collected under this paragraph in a special fund
known as the certification fund, which the state board shall use to defray the
costs of certification.
8.Prescribe
qualifications for admission to community colleges for honorably discharged
veterans who served on active duty in the armed forces for at least one year
and who were previously enrolled at a community college or university in this
state. For the purpose of determining the qualifications, the state board may
not consider prior failing grades received by the veteran at a community
college or university in this state.
9.In
conjunction with the state board for vocational and technical education, review
and adopt program and staff standards with modifications as necessary for
courses taught in community colleges. The state board of directors for
community colleges shall base the standards on vocational and technical
competence as prescribed by chapter 7, article 5 of this title.
10.In
conjunction with the state board for vocational and technical education,
prepare, publish and distribute an annual state plan and a comprehensive fiveyear
state plan.
11.Prescribe
the manner in which the self-evaluation of vocational and technical education
programs is conducted.
12.Prescribe
guidelines providing for the transferability between community college district
vocational and technical education programs and, in conjunction with the state
board for vocational and technical education, prescribe guidelines for the
interrelationship of secondary programs and postsecondary programs.
13.In conjunction
with the state board for vocational and technical education, develop a process
to determine program funding priorities for state aid purposes. The state board
of directors for community colleges shall submit state aid recommendations to
the legislature that are based on the process and on existing cost studies of
vocational and technical education in this state.
14.on or
before January 10 of each year, submit to the economic estimates commission the
estimated number of full-time equivalent students for each community college
district.
15.Determine
academic classes that qualify as open entry, open exit classes as defined in
section 15-1401 and prescribe rules for the operation of open entry, open exit
classes.
16.Require
the publisher of each literary and nonliterary textbook used in the community
colleges of this state to furnish to the state board computer software in a
standardized format when software becomes available for nonliterary textbooks
from which braille versions of the textbook may be produced.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1426.Employment of legal counsel to procure federal loans
The state board of
directors for community colleges may employ legal assistance in procuring loans
for community colleges from the United States government. Fees or compensation
paid for such legal assistance may not be a claim on the state general fund but
shall be paid from monies appropriated to the state community college
system.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1427.Annual report
on or before November 1
of each year, the state board of directors for community colleges shall report
to the governor for the preceding fiscal year the progress of the community
colleges operated under this chapter, the courses of study included in the
curricula, the number of professors and other instructional staff members
employed, the number of students registered and attending classes, the amount
of receipts and expenditures and such other information as the state board
deems proper.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1428.Uniform system of accounting for community college
districts; duties of state board and auditor general
A.The
auditor general shall determine the accounting systems, accounting methods and
accounting procedures for use by community college districts.
B.The
auditor general, in conjunction with the state board of directors for community
colleges shall prescribe a uniform system of accounting as provided in section
41-1279.21 for use by all community college districts.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE15-1429.Services outside district boundaries
Except as provided in
section 15-1470, a community college district may offer credit and noncredit
courses and services outside of the district. The state board of directors for
community colleges shall adopt rules concerning the offering of credit courses
outside a district, including distance learning courses. A district is not
entitled to state aid payments for students who are provided courses and services
outside of this state.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title
41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 41-3027.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3027.01.State board of directors for community colleges;
termination July 1, 2026
A.The state board of directors for community
colleges terminates on July 1, 2026.
B.title 15, chapter 12, article 2 is repealed on
January 1, 2027.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Initial terms of members of the state board of directors
for community colleges
A.Notwithstanding section 15-1421, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, the initial terms of the appointed members of
the state board of directors for community colleges are:
1.Three terms ending January 1, 2017.
2.Three terms ending on the third Monday in January
2018.
3.Three terms ending on the third Monday in January
2019.
4.Three terms ending on the third Monday in January
2020.
5.Three terms ending on the third Monday in January
2021.
B.The governor shall make all subsequent
appointments as prescribed by statute.
Sec.5.Purpose
Pursuant to section 41-2955, subsection E, Arizona Revised
Statutes, the legislature establishes the state board of directors for
community colleges to provide for the government, oversight, planning and
coordination of this state's community college system in areas of statewide
concern.
Sec.6.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fiftythird legislature, first regular
session.

