







REFERENCE TITLE: elderly assistance fund; county funding







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2683









Introduced by
Representative
  Olson





AN ACT

Amending section
42-17401, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the elderly assistance fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-17401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-17401.Elderly assistance fund; primary school district tax
reduction; definition
A.An elderly assistance fund shall be established
by the board of supervisors in a county with a population of more than two million
persons to be administered by the county treasurer. The fund shall be used to
reduce the primary school district taxes pursuant to subsection B of this
section.
B.If the
balance of monies in the fund will be exhausted in any fiscal year, the board of
supervisors shall restore any amounts transferred from the fund and used for
purposes other than the elderly assistance program. After all original and
replenishment balances have been exhausted, the legislature shall appropriate
two million five hundred thousand dollars to the fund each fiscal year.
B.C.On June 30 of
each year, the county treasurer shall determine the total amount of monies in
the elderly assistance fund and the total number of qualified individuals who
live in the county. The county treasurer shall use the monies in the fund to
proportionately reduce the primary school district taxes that are levied
against the property of all qualified individuals in the county for the
following tax year.
C.D.The county
treasurer shall invest monies in the fund. Interest earned on fund monies
shall be deposited in the taxpayer's information fund established by section
11-495.
D.E.For the purposes
of this section, "qualified individual" means an individual who lives
in an organized school district and who is approved for the property valuation
protection option pursuant to article IX, section 18, subsection (7),
Constitution of Arizona. END_STATUTE

