







REFERENCE TITLE: independent contractors; criteria 







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2652









Introduced by
Representatives
  Norgaard: Boyer, Coleman, Lawrence, Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending title
23, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 10; relating to employment
relationships.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 10, to read:
CHAPTER 10
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE23-1601.Qualified marketplace contractors; definitions
A.A qualified marketplace contractor shall be
treated as an independent contractor for all purposes under state and local
laws, regulations and ordinances, including employment security laws prescribed
in chapter 4 of this title and workers' compensation laws prescribed in chapter
6 of this title, if all of the following apply:
1.All or substantially all of the payment for
the services performed by the contractor is related to the performance of
services or other output.
2.The services performed by the contractor are
governed by a written contract executed between the contractor and a qualified
marketplace platform.
3.The written contract required by paragraph 2
of this subsection provides for all of the following:
(a)That
the contractor is providing services as an independent contractor and not as an
employee.
(b)That,
pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, all or substantially all of the
payment paid to the contractor shall be based on the performance of services or other output. 
(c)That
the contractor is allowed to work any hours or schedules the contractor
chooses. if the contractor elects to work specified hours or schedules, a
contract may require the contractor to perform work during the selected hours
or schedules.
(d)That
the contract does not restrict the contractors ability to perform services for
other parties. 
(e)That
the contractor bears all or substantially all of the contractor's own expenses
that are incurred by the contractor in performing the services.
(f)That the contractor is responsible for the
taxes on the contractor's own income.
(g)That
the contract and the association created by the contract may be terminated
without cause by either party to the contract at any time on reasonable notice
given to the other party.
B.For services performed by a qualified
marketplace contractor before the effective date of this section, the
contractor shall be treated as an independent contractor for all purposes under
state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including employment security
laws prescribed in chapter 4 of this title and workers' compensation laws
prescribed in chapter 6 of this title, if both of the following apply:
1.All or substantially all of the payment for
the services performed by the contractor is related to the performance of
services or other output.
2.The services performed by the contractor are
governed by a written contract executed between the contractor and a qualified
marketplace platform that conforms to the requirements of subsection A,
paragraph 3 of this section.
C.For the purposes of this section:
1."Qualified marketplace contractor"
or "contractor" means any person or organization, including an
individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, sole
proprietor or other entity, that enters into an agreement with a qualified
marketplace platform to use the qualified marketplace platform's digital
platform to provide services to third-party individuals or entities seeking
those services.
2."Qualified marketplace platform"
means an organization, including a corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, sole proprietor or any other entity, that operates a digital
platform that facilitates the provision of services by qualified marketplace
contractors to third-party individuals or entities seeking those services. END_STATUTE

