







REFERENCE TITLE: separate charitable contributions; tax
  credit







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2641









Introduced by
Representatives
  Brophy McGee: Weninger





AN ACT

amending section
43-1088, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to income tax credits for
contributions to charitable organizations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 43-1088, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1088.Credit for contribution to qualifying charitable
organizations; definitions
A.Except as provided in
subsection subsections B and C of this section, a credit is allowed
against the taxes imposed by this title for voluntary cash contributions by the
taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G during the taxable year to a qualifying charitable organization
not to exceed:
1.Two hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
B.In addition to the credit allowed under subsection A of this
section, a separate credit is allowed for voluntary cash contributions made to
a qualifying foster care charitable organization. A contribution to a
qualifying foster care charitable organization shall not be included in any
credit amount under subsection A of this section. If the
voluntary cash contribution by the taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf
pursuant to section 43401, subsection G is to a qualifying foster care
charitable organization, the credit allowed
under this subsection shall not exceed:
1.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Eight hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
C.Subsections A and B of this section provide
separate credits against taxes imposed by this title depending on the
recipients of the charitable contributions. A taxpayer, including a married
couple filing a joint return, may claim credits under both subsections a and B
of this section in the same taxable year and cumulate the contributions during
the taxable year under the dollar limits prescribed under both subsections.
C.D.A husband and wife who file
separate returns for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint
return may each claim only onehalf of the tax credit that would have
been allowed for a joint return.
D.E.If the allowable tax credit
exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or
if there are no taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry forward the
amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under this title for not more
than five consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.F.The credit allowed by this
section is in lieu of a deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal
revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
F.G.Taxpayers taking a credit
authorized by this section shall provide the name of the qualifying charitable
organization and the amount of the contribution to the department of revenue on
forms provided by the department.
G.H.A qualifying charitable
organization shall provide the department of revenue with a written
certification that it meets all criteria to be considered a qualifying
charitable organization.The organization shall also notify the department
of any changes that may affect the qualifications under this section.
H.I.The charitable organization's
written certification must be signed by an officer of the organization under
penalty of perjury. The written certification must include the following:
1.Verification of the
organization's status under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code or
verification that the organization is a designated community action agency that
receives community services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United States
Code section 9901.
2.Financial data
indicating the organization's budget for the organization's prior operating
year and the amount of that budget spent on services to residents of this state
who either:
(a)Receive temporary
assistance for needy families benefits.
(b)Are lowincome
residents of this state.
(c)Are children who
have a chronic illness or physical disability.
3.A statement that the
organization plans to continue spending at least fifty percent of its budget on
services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance for needy
families benefits, who are lowincome residents of this state or who are
children who have a chronic illness or physical disability.
4.A statement that the
organization does not provide, pay for or provide coverage of abortions and
does not financially support any other entity that provides, pays for or
provides coverage of abortions.
I.J.The department shall review each
written certification and determine whether the organization meets all the
criteria to be considered a qualifying charitable organization and notify the
organization of its determination.The department may also
periodically request recertification from the organization.The
department shall compile and make available to the public a list of the
qualifying charitable organizations.
J.K.For the purposes of this
section:
1."Children who
have a chronic illness or physical disability" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 36260.
2."Lowincome
residents" means persons whose household income is less than one hundred
fifty percent of the federal poverty level.
3."Qualifying
charitable organization" means a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code or is a designated community action agency that receives community
services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United States Code section
9901.The organization must spend at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance
for needy families benefits or lowincome residents of this state and
their households or to children who have a chronic illness or physical
disability who are residents of this state. Taxpayers choosing to make donations
through an umbrella charitable organization that collects donations on behalf
of member charities shall designate that the donation be directed to a member
charitable organization that would qualify under this section on a standalone
basis.Qualifying charitable organization does not include any
entity that provides, pays for or provides coverage of abortions or that
financially supports any other entity that provides, pays for or provides
coverage of abortions.
4."Qualifying
foster care charitable organization" means a qualifying charitable
organization that each operating year provides services to at least two hundred
qualified individuals in this state and spends at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to qualified individuals in this state. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "qualified individual" means a foster child as
defined in section 8501 or a person who is under twentyone years
of age and who is participating in a transitional independent living program as
prescribed by section 8521.01.
5."Services"
means cash assistance, medical care, child care, food, clothing, shelter, job
placement and job training services or any other assistance that is reasonably
necessary to meet immediate basic needs and that is provided and used in this
state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to taxable years beginning from
and after December 31, 2015.

