







REFERENCE TITLE: JTED restoration and reforms.







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2642









Introduced by
Representatives
  Ackerley, Allen J, Alston, Andrade, Barton, Benally, Borrelli, Bowers, Boyer,
  Brophy McGee, Campbell, Cardenas, Carter, Cobb, Coleman, Espinoza, Fann,
  Farnsworth E, Fernandez, Finchem, Friese, Gabaldn, Gowan, Gray, Hale, Kern,
  Kopec, Larkin, Lawrence, Leach, Livingston, Lovas, Mesnard, Meyer, Mitchell,
  Montenegro, Norgaard, Olson, Otondo, Petersen, Pratt, Rios, Rivero, Robson,
  Saldate, Shope, Stevens, Thorpe, Townsend, Velasquez, Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
15391 and 15393, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending Title 15,
chapter 3, article 6, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15393.01;
relating to joint technical education districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The article heading of title 15, chapter 3, article 6, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is changed from "JOINT TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION
DISTRICTS" to "JOINT TECHNICAL EDUCATION DISTRICTS".
Sec.2.Section 15-391, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-391.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Joint board" means a joint technical
education district governing board.
2."Joint district" means a joint
technical education district.
3."Joint technical education course"
means a course that is offered by a joint technical education district as part
of a joint technical education district program, that is approved by the career
and technical education division of the department of education and that meets
each of the following requirements:
(a)Is taught by an instructor who is certified to
teach career and technical education by the state board of education or by a
postsecondary educational institution.
(b)Is part of a program that requires students to
obtain a passing score of at least
sixty percent on an examination
assessment that
demonstrates a the level of skill or competency skills, knowledge and competencies necessary to be
successful in the designated VOCATION or industry for that program
of study that is accepted by a vocation
or an industry.
(c)Is part of an approved joint technical education
district program.
(d)Is not a
course or any variation of a course, including honors, that is required under
the minimum course of study pursuant to section 15701.01 in order to
graduate from high school.
(e)Requires a
majority of instructional time to be conducted in a laboratory environment,
field-based environment or work-based learning environment.
(f)Has
demonstrated a need for extra funding in order to provide the Joint technical
education course.
(g)Requires
specialized equipment in order to provide instruction to students that exceeds
the cost of a standard educational course.
4."Joint technical education district"
means a district that is formed pursuant to this article and that offers joint
technical education courses.
5."Joint technical education district
program" means a sequence of courses that is offered by a joint technical
education district and that meets all of the following requirements:
(a)Is taught by an instructor who is certified to
teach career and technical education by the state board of education or by a
postsecondary educational institution.
(b)Requires an assessment that demonstrates a the level of skill or competency in a skills, knowledge and competencies necessary to be
successful in the designated vocation or industry or that leads to certification in and acceptance by that
vocation or industry. Any
assessment adopted pursuant to this subdivision shall require a passing score
of at least sixty percent.
(c)Requires specialized equipment or instructional materials in order to provide instruction to students that
exceed exceeds the scope and cost of a standard educational
course.
(d)Requires a
majority of instructional time to be conducted in a laboratory environment,
fieldbased environment or work-based learning environment components, career and technical student organization
participation and laboratory experience as determined by the career and
technical education division of the department of education.
(e)Meets
demonstrates alignment through a
curriculum, instructional model and course sequence to meet the
standards of a career and technical education preparatory program as determined
by the career and technical education division of the department of education.
(f)Had
Has a defined pathway to
career and postsecondary education in a
specific vocation or industry as determined by the career and technical
education division of the department of education.
(g)Is approved by the career and technical
education division of the department of education based on the requirements
prescribed in this paragraph within one
hundred twenty days after the submission of all required
documentation. 
(h)Is certified by the joint technical education
district governing board to have met all the requirements prescribed in this
article.
(i)Is offered only to students in grades nine, ten,
eleven and twelve.
(j)Fills a high-need vocational or
industry need as determined by the career and technical education division of
the department of education.
(k)Does not require a student to
obtain a baccalaureate degree or more than two semesters of postsecondary
education in order to work in the designated vocation or industry after
graduation from high school and completion of the Joint technical education
district program.
(l)Leads to certification or
licensure in the designated vocation or industry that has been verified and
accepted by that vocation or industry and that qualifies the recipient of the
certification or licensure for employment for which the student would not
otherwise qualify.If there is no certification or licensure that is
accepted by the vocation or industry, completion of the program must qualify
the student for employment for which the student would not otherwise qualify
without completion of the Joint technical education district program.
(m)Requires instruction and
instructional materials in courses that are substantially different from and
exceed the scope of standard instruction and that include vocational skills,
competencies and knowledge to be successful in the designated Joint technical
education district program vocation or industry.
(n)An industry or vocation has
agreed to provide financial or technical support to the joint technical
education district for a specific Joint technical education district
program.For the purposes of this subdivision, "financial
support" includes inkind contributions and donations.
(o)A Joint technical education
district has demonstrated a need for extra funding in order to provide the
Joint technical education district program. 
6."State board" means the state board of
education. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-393, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-393.Joint technical education district governing board;
report; definitions
A.The management and
control of the joint district are vested in the joint technical education
district governing board, including the content and quality of the courses
offered by the district, the quality of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district, the salaries of teachers who provide instruction on
behalf of the district and the reimbursement of other entities for the
facilities used by the district.Unless the governing boards of the
school districts participating in the formation of the joint district vote to
implement an alternative election system as provided in subsection B of this
section, the joint board shall consist of five members elected from five single
member districts formed within the joint district. The single member district
election system shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392 and shall be established in the plan as
follows:
1.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district shall
define the boundaries of the single member districts so that the single member
districts are as nearly equal in population as is practicable, except that if
the joint district lies in part in each of two or more counties, at least one
single member district may be entirely within each of the counties comprising
the joint district if this district design is consistent with the obligation to
equalize the population among single member districts.
2.The boundaries of each
single member district shall follow election precinct boundary lines, as far as
practicable, in order to avoid further segmentation of the precincts.
3.A person who is a
registered voter of this state and who is a resident of the single member
district is eligible for election to the office of joint board member from the
single member district. The terms of office of the members of the joint board
shall be as prescribed in section 15427, subsection B.An
employee of a joint technical education district or the spouse of an employee
shall not hold membership on a governing board of a joint technical education
district by which the employee is employed.A member of one school
district governing board or joint technical education district governing board
is ineligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to or serve simultaneously
as a member of any other governing board, except that a member of a governing
board may be a candidate for nomination or election for any other governing
board if the member is serving in the last year of a term of office. A member
of a governing board shall resign the member's seat on the governing board
before becoming a candidate for nomination or election to the governing board
of any other school district or joint technical education district, unless the
member of the governing board is serving in the last year of a term of office.
4.Nominating petitions
shall be signed by the number of qualified electors of the single member
district as provided in section 16322.
B.The governing boards of
the school districts participating in the formation of the joint district may
vote to implement any other alternative election system for the election of
joint district board members.If an alternative election system is
selected, it shall be submitted as part of the plan for the joint district
pursuant to section 15392, and the implementation of the system shall be
as approved by the United States justice department.
C.The joint technical
education district shall be subject to the following provisions of this title:
1.Chapter 1, articles 1
through 6.
2.Sections 15208,
15210, 15213 and 15234.
3.Articles 2, 3 and 5 of
this chapter.
4.Section 15361.
5.Chapter 4, articles 1,
2 and 5.
6.Chapter 5, articles 1,
2 and 3.
7.Sections 15701.01,
15722, 15723, 15724, 15727, 15728, 15729
and 15730.
8.Chapter 7, article 5.
9.Chapter 8, articles 1,
3 and 4.
10.Sections 15828
and 15829.
11.Chapter 9, article 1,
article 6, except for section 15995, and article 7.
12.Sections 15941,
15943.01, 15948, 15952, 15953 and 15973.
13.Sections 151101
and 151104.
14.Chapter 10, articles
2, 3, 4 and 8.
D.Notwithstanding
subsection C of this section, the following apply to a joint technical
education district:
1.A joint district may
issue bonds for the purposes specified in section 151021 and in chapter
4, article 5 of this title to an amount in the aggregate, including the
existing indebtedness, not exceeding one percent of the taxable property used
for secondary tax purposes, as determined pursuant to title 42, chapter 15, article
1, within the joint technical education district as ascertained by the last
property tax assessment previous to issuing the bonds.
2.The number of governing
board members for a joint district shall be as prescribed in subsection A of
this section.
3.The student count for
the first year of operation of a joint technical education district as provided
in this article shall be determined as follows:
(a)Determine the
estimated student count for joint district classes that will operate in the
first year of operation. This estimate shall be based on actual registration
of pupils as of March 30 scheduled to attend classes that will be operated by
the joint district. The student count for the district of residence of the
pupils registered at the joint district shall be adjusted. The adjustment
shall cause the district of residence to reduce the student count for the pupil
to reflect the courses to be taken at the joint district. The district of
residence shall review and approve the adjustment of its own student count as
provided in this subdivision before the pupils from the school district can be
added to the student count of the joint district.
(b)The student count for
the new joint district shall be the student count as determined in subdivision
(a) of this paragraph.
(c)For the first year of
operation, the joint district shall revise the student count to the actual
average daily membership as prescribed in section 15901, subsection A,
paragraph 1 for students attending classes in the joint district. A joint
district shall revise its student count, the base support level as provided in
section 15943.02, the revenue control limit as provided in section 15944.01
and the district additional assistance as provided in section 15962.01
prior to May 15. A joint district that overestimated its student count shall
revise its budget prior to May 15. A joint district that underestimated its
student count may revise its budget prior to May 15.
(d)After March 15 of the
first year of operation, the district of residence shall adjust its student
count by reducing it to reflect the courses actually taken at the joint
district. The district of residence shall revise its student count, the base
support level as provided in section 15943, the revenue control limit as
provided in section 15944 and the district additional assistance as
provided in section 15962.01 prior to May15.A district
that underestimated the student count for students attending the joint district
shall revise its budget prior to May 15.A district that
overestimated the student count for students attending the joint district may
revise its budget prior to May 15.
(e)A joint district for the first year of operation
shall not be eligible for adjustment pursuant to section 15948.
(f)The procedures for implementing this paragraph
shall be as prescribed in the uniform system of financial records.
(g)Pupils in an approved joint technical education district
centralized program may generate an average daily membership of 1.0 during any
day of the week and at any time between July 1 and June 30 of each fiscal year.
For the purposes of this paragraph,
"district of residence" means the district that included the pupil in
its average daily membership for the year before the first year of operation of
the joint district and that would have included the pupil in its student count
for the purposes of computing its base support level for the fiscal year of the
first year of operation of the joint district if the pupil had not enrolled in
the joint district.
4.A student includes any person enrolled in the
joint district without regard to the person's age or high school graduation
status, except that:
(a)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who enrolls in courses offered by the joint technical
education district shall not be included in the joint district's student count
or average daily membership.
(b)A student in a kindergarten program or in grades
one through nine who is enrolled in career and technical education courses
shall not be funded in whole or in part with monies provided by a joint
technical education district, except that a pupil in grade eight or nine may be
funded with monies generated by the five cent qualifying tax rate authorized in
subsection F of this section.
(c)A student who has graduated from high school or received a general
equivalency diploma or who is over twentyone years of age
shall not be included in the student count of the joint district for the
purposes of chapter 9, articles 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
(d)A student who is enrolled in any
internship course as part of a joint technical education district program shall
not be included in the student count of the joint district for the purposes of
chapter 9, articles 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
5.A joint district may operate for more than one
hundred eighty days per year, with expanded hours of service.
6.A joint district may use the carryforward
provisions of section 15943.01.
7.A school district that is part of a joint district
shall use any monies received pursuant to this article to supplement and not
supplant base year career and technical education courses, and directly related
equipment and facilities, except that a school district that is part of a joint
technical education district and that has used monies received pursuant to this
article to supplant career and technical education courses that were offered
before the first year that the school district participated in the joint
district or the first year that the school district used monies received
pursuant to this article or that used the monies for purposes other than for
career and technical education courses shall use one hundred percent of the
monies received pursuant to this article to supplement and not supplant base
year career and technical education courses.
8.A joint technical education district shall use
any monies received pursuant to this article to enhance and not supplant career
and technical education courses and directly related equipment and facilities.
9.A joint technical education district or a school
district that is part of a joint district or a charter school shall only
include pupils in grades ten through twelve in the calculation of student count
or average daily membership if the pupils are enrolled in courses that are
approved jointly by the governing board of the joint technical education
district and each participating school district or charter school for satellite
courses taught within the participating school district or charter school, or
approved solely by the joint technical education district for centrally located
courses. Student count and average daily membership from courses that are not
part of an approved program for career and technical education shall not be
included in student count and average daily membership of a joint technical
education district.
E.The joint board shall appoint a superintendent as
the executive officer of the joint district.
F.Taxes may be levied for the support of the joint
district as prescribed in chapter 9, article 6 of this title, except that a
joint technical education district shall not levy a property tax pursuant to
law that exceeds five cents per one hundred dollars assessed valuation except
for bond monies pursuant to subsection D, paragraph 1 of this section. Except
for the taxes levied pursuant to section 15994, such taxes shall be
obtained from a levy of taxes on the taxable property used for secondary tax
purposes.
G.The schools in the joint district are available
to all persons who reside in the joint district and to pupils whose district of
residence within this state is paying tuition on behalf of the pupils to a
district of attendance that is a member of the joint technical education
district, subject to the rules for admission prescribed by the joint board.
H.The joint board may collect tuition for adult
students and the attendance of pupils who are residents of school districts
that are not participating in the joint district pursuant to arrangements made
between the governing board of the district and the joint board.
I.The joint board may accept gifts, grants, federal
monies, tuition and other allocations of monies to erect, repair and equip
buildings and for the cost of operation of the schools of the joint district.
J.One member of the joint board shall be selected
chairman.The chairman shall be selected annually on a rotation
basis from among the participating school districts. The chairman of the joint
board shall be a voting member.
K.A joint board and a community college district
may enter into agreements for the provision of administrative, operational and
educational services and facilities.
L.Beginning
July 1, 2016, any agreement between the governing board of a
joint technical education district and another joint technical education
district, a school district, a charter school or a community college district
shall be in the form of an intergovernmental agreement or other written
contract.The auditor general shall modify the uniform system of financial
records and budget forms in accordance with this subsection.The
intergovernmental agreement or other written contract shall completely and
accurately specify each of the following:
1.The financial provisions of the intergovernmental
agreement or other written contract and the format for the billing of all
services.
2.The accountability provisions of the
intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
3.The responsibilities of each joint technical
education district, each school district, each charter school and each
community college district that is a party to the intergovernmental agreement
or other written contract.
4.The type of instruction that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract, including
individualized education programs pursuant to section 15763.
5.The quality of the instruction that will be
provided under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract.
6.The transportation services that will be provided
under the intergovernmental agreement or other written contract and the manner
in which transportation costs will be paid.
7.The amount that the joint technical education
district will contribute to a course and the amount of support required by the
school district or the community college.
8.That the services provided by the joint technical
education district, the school district, the charter school or the community
college district be proportionally calculated in the cost of delivering the
service.
9.That the payment for services shall not exceed
the cost of the services provided.
10.That the joint technical education district
will provide the following minimum services for all member districts:
(a)Professional
development of career and technical teachers in the joint district who are
teaching programs or courses at a satellite campus.
(b)Ongoing
evaluation and support of satellite campus programs and courses to ensure
quality and compliance.
11.An itemized listing of other goods and
services that are provided to the member district and that are paid for by the
retention of satellite campus student funding.
M.On or
before December 31 of each year, each joint technical education district shall
submit a detailed report to the career and technical education division of the
department of education. The career and technical education division of the
department of education shall collect, summarize and analyze the data submitted
by the joint districts, shall submit an annual report that summarizes the data
submitted by the joint districts to the governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives, the president of the senate and the state board of education
and shall submit a copy of this report to the secretary of state. The data
submitted by each joint technical education district shall include the
following:
1.The average
daily membership of the joint district.
2.The program
listings and program descriptions of programs offered by the joint district,
including the course sequences for each program.
3.The costs associated
with each program offered by the joint district.
4.The
completion rate for each program offered by the joint district. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "completion rate" means the completion
rate for students who are designated as concentrators in that program by the
department of education under the career and technology approved plan.
5.The
graduation rate from the school district of residence of students who have
completed a program in the joint district.
6.A detailed
description of the career opportunities available to students after completion
of the program offered by the joint district.
7.A detailed
description of the career placement of students who have completed the program
offered by the joint district.
8.Any other
data deemed necessary by the department of education to carry out its duties
under this subsection.
N.M.A member school district or charter school may not submit
requests for the approval or addition of satellite campus joint district
programs or courses directly to the career and technical education division of
the department of education, but shall submit all appropriate application
documentation and materials for programs or courses to the joint
district.On approval from the joint board, a joint district shall
only submit requests for the approval or addition of satellite campus joint
district programs or courses directly to the career and technical education
division of the department of education.If the career
and technical education division of the department of education determines that
a course does not meet the criteria for approval as a joint technical education
course, the governing board of the joint technical education district may
appeal this decision to the state board of education acting as the state board
of vocational education.
O.N.Notwithstanding
any other law, the average daily membership for a pupil who is enrolled in a
joint technical education course defined in section 15391 and who does
not meet the criteria specified in subsection Q P
or R Q of this section shall be 0.25
for each course, except the sum of the average daily membership shall not
exceed the limits prescribed by subsection D, Q P
or R Q of this section, as
applicable.
P.O.If a career and
technical education course or program is provided on a satellite campus, the
sum of the average daily membership, as provided in section 15901,
subsection A, paragraph 1, for that pupil in the school district or charter
school and joint technical education district shall not exceed 1.25. The
school district or charter school and the joint district shall determine the
apportionment of the average daily membership for that pupil between the school
district or charter school and the joint district.A pupil who
attends a course or program at a satellite campus and who is not enrolled in
the school district or charter school where the satellite campus is located may
generate the average daily membership pursuant to this subsection if the pupil
is enrolled in a school district that is a member district in the same joint
technical education district. 
Q.P.The sum of the
average daily membership of a pupil who is enrolled in both the school district
and joint technical education district course or program provided at a
community college pursuant to subsection K of this section or at a centralized
campus shall not exceed 1.75. The member school district and the joint
district shall determine the apportionment of the average daily membership and
student enrollment for that pupil between the member school district and the
joint district, except that the amount apportioned shall not exceed 1.0 for
either entity.Notwithstanding any other law, the average daily
membership for a pupil in grade ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a course
that meets for at least one hundred fifty minutes per class period at a
centralized campus shall be 0.75.To qualify for funding pursuant to
this subsection, a centralized campus shall offer programs and courses to all
eligible students in each member district of the joint technical education
district.
R.Q.The average daily
membership for a pupil in grade ten, eleven or twelve who is enrolled in a
course that meets for at least one hundred fifty minutes per class period at a
leased centralized campus shall not exceed 0.75.The sum of the
average daily membership, as provided in section 15901, subsection A,
paragraph 1, of a pupil who is enrolled in both the school district and in
joint technical education district courses provided at a leased centralized
campus shall not exceed 1.75 if all of the following conditions are met:
1.The course qualifies as a joint technical
education course as defined in section 15-391.
2.The course is offered to all eligible students in
each member district of the joint technical education district and enrolls
students from multiple high schools.
3.The joint technical education district program in
which the course is included addresses a specific industry need and has been
developed in cooperation with that industry, or the leased facility is a state
or federal asset that would otherwise be unused or underutilized.
4.The lease is established at fair market value if
the lease is executed for a facility located on the site of a member district
and was approved by the joint committee on capital review, except that a lease
that was executed or renewed before December 31, 2012 is not subject to
approval by the joint committee on capital review. The requirement prescribed in this paragraph does not apply
from and after December 31, 2016.
S.R.A student who is
enrolled in an accommodation school as defined in section 15101 may be
treated as a student of the school district in which the student physically
resides for the purposes of enrollment in a joint technical education district
and shall be included in the calculation of average daily membership for either
the joint technical education district or the accommodation school, or both.
T.S.Notwithstanding
any other law, the student count for a joint technical education district shall
be equivalent to the joint technical education district's average daily
membership.
U.Beginning
in fiscal year 20162017, base support level funding that a school
district or charter school receives for a pupil who is enrolled in both a
school district or charter school and a joint technical education district
satellite campus program shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf
percent of the base support level funding that the school district or charter
school would otherwise receive for that pupil.
V.Beginning
in fiscal year 20162017, base support level funding that a joint
technical education district receives for a pupil who is enrolled in both a
school district or charter school and a joint technical education district
shall be funded at ninetytwo and onehalf percent of the base
support level funding that the joint technical education district would
otherwise receive for that pupil.
W.T.A school district
or charter school may not
prohibit or discourage students who are enrolled in that school district or charter school from
attending courses offered by a joint technical education district, including requiring students to generate a
full 1.0 average daily membership or enrolling in more courses than are needed
for a particular student to graduate before enrolling and attending programs or
courses offered by a joint district.
X.Notwithstanding
subsection D, paragraph 7 of this section, a school district or charter school
that experiences a reduction in its base support level funding pursuant to
subsection U of this section may use a portion of joint technical education
district monies that it receives pursuant to this section in order to offset
the loss of regular education funding that it experiences pursuant to
subsection U of this section. The amount of joint technical education monies
that the school district or charter school may use to offset the loss of
funding that it experiences pursuant to subsection U of this section may not
exceed the reduction in base support level funding that it experiences pursuant
to subsection U of this section.
Y.U.The governing
board of the joint technical education district may contract with any charter
school that is located within the boundaries of the joint technical education
district to allow that charter school to offer career and technical education
courses or programs as a satellite campus.
V.Beginning
in 2020 and every five years thereafter, the career and technical education
division of the department of education shall review joint technical education
district programs and joint technical education courses to ensure compliance,
quality and eligibility. Any program or course deemed to not meet the
requirements set forth by law shall not be funded for the preceding school year
and shall be removed from the approved program and course list. The career and
technical education division may establish a staggered schedule for reviewing
each joint technical education district.
Z.W.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Base year" means the complete school
year in which voters of a school district elected to join a joint technical
education district.
2."Centralized campus" means a facility
that is owned and operated by a joint technical education district for the
purpose of offering joint technical education district programs or joint technical education
courses as defined in section 15391.
3."Lease" means a written agreement in
which the right of occupancy or use of real property is conveyed from one
person or entity to another person or entity for a specified period of time.
4."Leased centralized campus" means a
facility that is leased and operated by a joint technical education district
for the purpose of offering joint technical education district programs or joint technical education
courses as defined in section 15391.
5."Satellite campus" means a facility
that is owned or operated by a school district or charter school for the
purpose of offering joint technical education district programs or joint technical education
courses as defined in section 15391.
END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 15, chapter 3, article 6, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-393.01, to read:
START_STATUTE15-393.01.Joint technical education districts; annual report;
performance and accountability
A.The
department of education shall include each joint technical education district
in the department's annual achievement profiles required by section 15241.Subject
to approval by the state board of education, the department of education shall
develop specific criteria applicable to joint districts and include joint
districts in the letter grade classification system prescribed in section 15241.
The department shall include all of the following performance indicators in the
annual achievement profiles and letter grade classification:
1.The
graduation rate of all students enrolled in a career and technical education
program or course.
2.The
completion rate for each program offered by the joint district.
3.Performance
on assessments required pursuant to section 15-391, paragraph 5, subdivision (b). 
4.Postgraduation
employment rates for students who complete a career and technical education
program.
B.A joint
district is subject to the performance audits pursuant to section 41-1279.03,
subsection A, paragraph 9. The auditor general shall consider the differences
and applicable laws for a joint district when conducting a performance audit
for a joint district.
C.On or
before December 31 of each year, the career and technical education division of
the department of education shall submit a joint technical education district
annual report to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker of
the house of representatives and shall submit a copy of this report to the
secretary of state.The career and technical education division of
the department of education shall submit a copy of this report to the joint legislative
budget committee for review.The annual report shall include the
following:
1.The
average daily membership of each joint district, including the average daily
membership of each centralized campus, satellite campus and leased centralized
campus as defined in section 15393.
2.The
actual student count of each joint district, including the student count of
each centralized campus, satellite campus and leased centralized campus as
defined in section 15393.
3.The
programs and corresponding courses offered by each joint district, including
the location of each program and course.
4.The
student enrollment of each program and corresponding course for each joint
district based on program or course location.
5.The costs
associated with each program offered by the joint district.
6.A listing
of Any programs or courses that were discontinued by review of the career and
technical education division pursuant to section 15393, subsection V.
7.A listing
of Any programs or courses that were continued by review of the career and
technical education division pursuant to section 15-393, subsection V.
8.A listing
of Any programs or courses that were added by the career and technical
education division.
9.Any other
data or information deemed necessary by the department of education.
D.The
office of the auditor general, in consultation with the department of
education, shall develop and establish uniform cost reporting guidelines,
policies and procedures for joint technical education district programs. Any guideline,
policy or procedure shall allow for the effective comparison of cost between
joint technical education district programs. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Career and technical education task
force; members; duties; annual report; repeal
A.The career and
technical education task force is established consisting of the following
members:
1.Three members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate, not more than two of whom are members of the same
political party.The president of the senate shall designate one of
these members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
2.Three members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, not more than two
of whom are members of the same political party.The speaker of the
house of representatives shall designate one of these members to serve as
cochairperson of the committee.
3.One member who is affiliated with a statewide
policy and research organization that has a background in school finance,
school choice and education policy and who is appointed by the governor.
4.One member who is affiliated with a major
taxpayer organization and who is appointed by the governor.
5.One member who represents a highneed
vocation or industry in this state and who is appointed by the governor.
6.Two members
who each represent a different joint technical education district and who are
appointed by the president of the senate.One of these members shall
be from a joint technical education district that has a majority of students
enrolled in a centralized campus and the other member shall be from a joint
district with a majority of students enrolled at satellite campuses.
7.Two members
who each represent a different joint technical education district and who are
appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. One of these members
shall be from a joint technical education district with more than two thousand
students and the other member shall be from a joint district with less than one
thousand one hundred students.
B.Task force members are not eligible to receive
compensation but are eligible to receive reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
C.The career and technical education division of
the department of education and the department of education shall lend
technical support to the task force and provide any data, research or
information that the task force may request.
D.The task force shall study and analyze:
1.Uniformity in career and technical education
course offerings and titles across all joint technical education districts.
2.Uniformity in course sequencing for completing
career and technical education programs across all joint technical education
districts.
3.Uniformity in certifications and licensure issued
on completion of career and technical education programs across all joint
technical education districts.
4.The establishment of open enrollment and school
choice across all joint technical education districts.
5.Joint technical education district financing and
allocation of monies to member districts and charter schools for students
enrolled at satellite campuses.
6.The reduction of duplicative career and technical
education programs and courses based on locations of other satellite campus,
centralized campus, leased centralized campus and community college career and
technical education program and course offerings.
7.Any other issues to reform, promote and enhance
career and technical education.
E.The task force shall submit an annual report of
its findings and recommendations for administrative and legislative action on
or before December 15 to the governor, the president of the senate and the speaker
of the house of representatives and shall provide a copy of this report to the
secretary of state.
F.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2018.
Sec.6.Department of education; joint legislative budget
committee review of new requirements; reports
On the effective date of this act, the department of education
shall immediately start reviewing the compliance and eligibility of all joint
technical education district programs and joint technical education courses
currently in effect with the new requirements set forth in this act. Through
December 31, 2018, the department of education shall submit quarterly reports
to the joint legislative budget committee for review on its progress and the
subsequent approval or rejection of currently eligible joint technical
education district programs and joint technical education courses. Any joint
technical education program or joint technical education course that is deemed
to have not met the requirements pursuant to this act may not receive funding
after the effective date of this act.
Sec.7.Auditor general; special audit
As scheduled by the joint legislative audit committee, the
auditor general shall conduct a special audit of joint technical education
districts that includes all of the following:
1.The delivery
of career and technical education for schools that are not included in a joint
technical education district compared to the delivery of career and technical
education in a joint technical education district.
2.The delivery
of career and technical education at a centralized campus compared to the
delivery of career and technical education at a satellite campus.
3.The growth in satellite campus programs compared
to centralized campus programs.
4.The spending habits of joint technical education
districts.
5.The efficiency of joint technical education
district practices and administrative spending.
6.The relationship between joint technical
education districts and member districts and services provided to member
districts.
7.The variety, scope and duplication of joint
technical education district program and course offerings.
8.Any followup issues arising since the
previous audit or any other issues necessary for the completion of the audit as
determined by the auditor general.
Sec.8.Retroactivity
Section 15393, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, applies retroactively to from and after June 30, 2016.
Sec.9.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

