







REFERENCE TITLE: nonrestorable
  defendants; incompetent; involuntary commitment





State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016




HB 2670









Introduced by
Representative
  Farnsworth E





AN ACT

amending sections
134501, 134505, 134509, 134515 and 134517,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 41, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 134518; amending section 36520,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 101;
amending section 36520, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 195, section 26; amending section 36522, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 1992, chapter 301, section 20; amending section 36522,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 28;
amending section 36523, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws
2014, chapter 215, section 103; amending section 36523, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195, section 29; amending section 36529,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 36531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2014, chapter 215, section 105; amending section
36531, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195,
section 30; amending sections 36533, 36534, 36540 and 36540.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 36, chapter 5, article 5, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 36540.03; amending section 36541.01,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2014, chapter 215, section 113;
amending section 36541.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws
2015, chapter 195, section 33; amending section 36543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by laws 2014, chapter 215, section 114; amending section
36543, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 195,
section 34; amending sections 36544, 36546 and 363701,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to incompetent and nonrestorable defendants.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-4501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4501.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Clinical liaison" means a mental
health expert or any other individual who has experience and training in mental
health or developmental disabilities and who is qualified and appointed by the
court to aid in coordinating the treatment or training of individuals who are
found incompetent to stand trial.If intellectual disability is an
issue, the clinical liaison shall be an expert in intellectual disabilities.
2."Dangerous"
means, except as used in paragraph 6 of this section, a threat to public safety
and is likely, as a result of a mental illness, defect or disability, to commit
an act of violence or cause serious physical injury to another person.
2.3."Incompetent
to stand trial" means that as a result of a mental illness, defect or disability
a defendant is unable to understand the nature and object of the proceeding or
to assist in the defendant's defense.In the case of a person under
eighteen years of age when the issue of competency is raised, incompetent to
stand trial also means a person who does not have sufficient present ability to
consult with the person's lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational
understanding or who does not have a rational and factual understanding of the
proceedings against the person.The presence of a mental illness,
defect or disability alone is not grounds for finding a defendant incompetent
to stand trial.
3.4."Mental
health expert" means a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 13 or 17 or a psychologist who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 19.1 and who is:
(a)Familiar with this state's competency standards
and statutes.
(b)Familiar with the treatment, training and
restoration programs that are available in this state.
(c)Certified by the court as meeting court developed
guidelines using recognized programs or standards.
4.5."Mental
illness, defect or disability" means a psychiatric or neurological
disorder that is evidenced by behavioral or emotional symptoms, including
congenital mental conditions, conditions resulting from injury or disease and
developmental disabilities as defined in section 36551.
5.6."Threat to
public safety" means charged with the commission of any of the following:
(a)A crime involving the discharge, use or
threatening exhibition of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument or the
infliction of physical injury on another person.
(b)A dangerous crime against children pursuant to
section 13705.
(c)Two or more nondangerous felonies within a
period of twentyfour months.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-4505, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4505.Appointment of experts; costs
A.If the court determines pursuant to section 134503
that reasonable grounds exist for a competency examination, the court shall
appoint two or more mental health experts to examine the defendant, issue a
report and, if necessary, testify regarding the defendant's competency. The
court, on its own motion or upon on motion of any party, may
order that one of the mental health experts appointed shall be a physician
specializing in psychiatry and licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or
17. The state and the defendant, upon on approval of the court, may
stipulate to the appointment of only one expert.
B.The court may order the defendant to submit to
physical, neurological or psychological examinations, if necessary, to
adequately determine the defendant's mental condition.
C.If the defendant
is charged with a sexually violent offense as defined in section 36-3701 and
the county attorney requests, the court may order a screening of the defendant
to determine if the defendant is a sexually violent person. One of the mental
health experts appointed by the court shall be a competent professional as
defined in section 36-3701. If that expert determines that the defendant is
incompetent to stand trial and not restorable to competency within twenty-one
months, the expert shall determine whether the defendant may be a sexually
violent person.
C.D.The court shall
order the defendant to pay the costs of the court ordered examination, except
that if the court finds the defendant is indigent or otherwise unable to pay
all or any part of the costs or if the prosecution requested the examination,
the court shall order the county to pay the costs of the examination or, if the
case is referred by a municipal court judge, the court shall order the city to
pay the costs of the examination.
D.E.This section does
not prohibit any party from retaining its own expert to conduct any additional
examinations at its own expense.
E.F.A person who is
appointed as a mental health expert or clinical liaison is entitled to
immunity, except that the mental health expert or clinical liaison may be
liable for intentional, wanton or grossly negligent acts that are done in the
performance of the expert's or liaison's duties. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 13-4509, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4509.Expert's report
A.An expert who is appointed pursuant to section 134505
shall submit a written report of the examination to the court within ten
working days after the examination is completed.The report shall
include at least the following information:
1.The name of each mental health expert who
examines the defendant.
2.A description of the nature, content, extent and
results of the examination and any test conducted and of any instrument or tool used to assess the
defendant's propensity to reoffend.
3.The facts on which the findings are based.
4.An opinion as to the competency of the defendant.
B.If the mental health expert determines that the
defendant is incompetent to stand trial, the report shall also include the
following information:
1.The nature of the mental disease, defect or
disability that is the cause of the incompetency.
2.The defendant's prognosis.
3.The
nature of the mental health disorder, disease or defect or of any personality
or other disorder that may affect the defendant's propensity to reoffend.
3.4.The most
appropriate form and place of treatment in this state, based on the defendant's
therapeutic needs and potential threat to public safety.
4.5.Whether the
defendant is incompetent to refuse treatment and should be subject to
involuntary treatment.
6.If the
prognosis includes a determination as to whether there is no substantial
probability that the defendant will regain competency within twenty-one months
after the date of the original finding of incompetency, whether the defendant
should be considered dangerous or may be a sexually violent person.
C.If the mental health examiner determines that the
defendant is currently competent by virtue of ongoing treatment with
psychotropic medication, the report shall address the necessity of continuing
that treatment and shall include a description of any limitations that the
medication may have on competency.END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 13-4515, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4515.Duration of order; excluded time calculation; notice of
dismissed charge or voided order; petitions
A.An order or combination of orders that is issued
pursuant to section 134512 or 134514 shall not be in effect for
more than twentyone months or the maximum possible sentence the
defendant could have received pursuant to section 13702, section 13703,
section 13704, subsection A, B, C, D or E, section 13705, section
13706, subsection A, section 13708, subsection D or section 13751
or any section for which a specific sentence is authorized, whichever is
less.In making this determination the court shall not consider the
sentence enhancements under section 13703 or 13-704 for prior
convictions.
B.The court shall only consider the time a
defendant actually spends in a restoration to competency program when
calculating the time requirements pursuant to subsection A of this section.
C.The court shall notify the prosecutor, the
defense attorney, the medical supervisor and the treating facility if the
charges against the defendant are dismissed or if an order is voided by the
court.No charges shall be dismissed without a hearing prior to before the dismissal.
D.If a defendant is discharged or released on the
expiration of an order or orders issued pursuant to section 134512 or 134514,
the medical supervisor may file a petition stating that the defendant requires
further treatment pursuant to title 36, chapter 5, or
appointment of a guardian pursuant to title 14 or involuntary commitment because the defendant is
dangerous. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 13-4517, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4517.Incompetent defendants; disposition
A. If
the court finds that a defendant is incompetent to stand trial and that there
is no substantial probability that the defendant will regain competency within
twentyone months after the date of the original finding of incompetency,
any party may request that the court:
1.Remand the defendant to the custody of the
department of health services for the institution of civil commitment
proceedings pursuant to title 36, chapter 5.
2.Appoint a guardian pursuant to title 14, chapter
5.
3.Release the defendant from custody and dismiss
the charges against the defendant without prejudice.
4.Hold a
hearing to determine if the defendant is dangerous and should be involuntarily
committed pursuant to section 13-4518.
B.If the
court enters an order pursuant to subsection a, paragraph 1, 2 or 4 of this
section, the court may also order an assessment of the defendant's eligibility
for private insurance or public benefits that may be applied to the expenses of
the defendant's medically necessary maintenance and treatment, including
services pursuant to title 36, chapter 29, stateonly behavioral health
services, title xviii services and medicare part d prescription drug benefits,
supplemental security income and supplemental security disability income.
C.the court
may retain jurisdiction over the defendant throughout the time necessary to
determine the defendant's appropriate treatment options and to implement the
court's orders.
D.If the
court remands the defendant to the custody of the department of health services
for the institution of civil commitment proceedings pursuant to title 36,
chapter 5 and the court is notified that the defendant has not had a civil
commitment evaluation, the court shall order the sheriff to take the defendant
into custody so that the court may explore other options consistent with this
section. If the defendant is out of custody, the court may order that the
defendant be taken into custody for a disposition pursuant to this section.
E.If a
mental health expert has determined that the defendant may be a sexually
violent person, the mental health expert shall provide the report to the
prosecuting agency so that the prosecuting agency may file a petition pursuant
to section 363702. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title
13, chapter 41, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-4518,
to read:
START_STATUTE13-4518.Dangerous and incompetent defendants; commitment hearing;
disposition
A.If an
incompetent defendant is found to be not restorable to competency, the state
may request a hearing to determine if the defendant is dangerous and should be
involuntarily committed.
B.If there
has not been a previous determination on whether the defendant is dangerous,
the defendant shall be examined by mental health experts in the same manner
prescribed in section 134505 to determine if the defendant should be
considered dangerous.
C.At a
hearing to determine if the defendant is dangerous the state shall establish by
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant is dangerous and that the
defendant committed the charged offense. If the court does not find the
defendant is dangerous, the court shall proceed pursuant to section 13-4517,
subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 3.
D.If the
court finds that the defendant is dangerous, the court shall order the
defendant to be committed to a secure state mental health facility licensed by
the department of health services or the joint commission on accreditation of
health care organizations.The defendant shall receive education,
care, supervision and treatment to render the defendant either competent or
nondangerous.
E.After the
entry of a commitment order, the defendant's treatment supervisor shall submit
a report to the court every year that includes the treatment and education that
the defendant has received, a prognosis for the defendant's restoration to
competency and whether the defendant remains dangerous.
F.If a
treatment supervisor submits a report to the court pursuant to subsection e of
this section indicating that the defendant is competent to stand trial or is no
longer dangerous the court shall hold a hearing to determine whether the
defendant is competent or is no longer dangerous. If the report states that
the defendant is no longer dangerous in whole or in part because of medication
that the defendant is taking, the report must also include the likelihood that
the defendant will continue to take that medication and comply with any
outpatient treatment. The court may order an additional mental health expert
to provide an opinion on the defendant's competence or whether the defendant is
dangerous. The state may also retain its own expert for this purpose.
G.After a
hearing held pursuant to subsection f of this section, if the court finds that:
1.The
defendant's competency is restored, the court shall order the resumption of
criminal proceedings.
2.The
defendant's competency has not been restored and:
(a)the defendant is not dangerous,
the court shall release the defendant from custody and proceed pursuant to
section 13-4517, subsection A, paragraph 1, 2 or 3.
(b)the defendant is not dangerous
in whole or in part because the defendant is taking medication, the court may
release the defendant on the condition that the defendant continue to take the
medication and submit to monitoring and testing. 
(c)the defendant is dangerous, the
defendant shall remain committed to the custody of the secure state mental
health facility until any of the following occurs: 
(i)the court finds that the
defendant is competent to stand trial.
(ii)the court finds that the
defendant is no longer dangerous.
(iii)the expiration of a period of
time equal to either the sentence the defendant would have received if the
defendant had been sentenced pursuant to section 13-751 or the presumptive
sentence for all other offenses.
H.If a
defendant is involuntarily committed pursuant to this section, the director of
the department of health services shall determine the extent to which the
defendant is receiving or is eligible to receive private or public benefits
that may be applied to the expenses of the defendant's maintenance and
treatment that are medically necessary, including federal and state medicaid,
arizona health care cost containment system monies and regional behavioral
health care monies.The department may accept these monies without a
court order. The department is responsible for all remaining costs associated
with the commitment. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 36-520, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 101, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE36-520.Application for evaluation; definition
A.Any responsible individual may apply for a courtordered
evaluation of a person who is alleged to be, as a result of a mental disorder,
a danger to self or to others, a person with a persistent or acute disability
or a grave disability and who is unwilling or unable to undergo a voluntary
evaluation.The application shall be made in the prescribed form and
manner as adopted by the deputy director.
B.The application for evaluation shall include the
following data:
1.The name, and address if known, of the proposed
patient for whom evaluation is applied.
2.The age, date of birth, sex, race, marital
status, occupation, social security number, present location, dates and places
of previous hospitalizations, names and addresses of the guardian, spouse, next
of kin and significant other persons and other data that the deputy director
may require on the form to whatever extent that this data is known and is
applicable to the proposed patient.
3.Any known
criminal history of the proposed patient, including whether the proposed patient
has ever been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
3.4.The name, address
and relationship of the person who is applying for the evaluation.
4.5.A statement that
the proposed patient is believed to be, as a result of a mental disorder, a
danger to self or to others, or a patient with a persistent
or acute disability or a grave disability and the facts on which this statement
is based.
5.6.A statement that
the applicant believes the proposed patient is in need of supervision, care and
treatment and the facts on which this statement is based.
C.The application shall be signed and notarized.
D.The screening agency shall offer assistance to
the applicant in preparation of the application.Upon receipt of the
application, the screening agency shall act as prescribed in section 36521
within fortyeight hours of the filing of the application excluding
weekends and holidays.If the application is not acted upon within
fortyeight hours, the reasons for not acting promptly shall be reviewed
by the director of the screening agency or the director's designee.
E.If the applicant for the courtordered
evaluation presents the person to be evaluated at the screening agency, the
agency shall conduct a prepetition screening examination.Except in
the case of an emergency evaluation, the person to be evaluated shall not be
detained or forced to undergo prepetition screening against the person's will.
F.If the applicant for the courtordered
evaluation does not present the person to be evaluated at the screening agency,
the agency shall conduct the prepetition screening at the home of the person to
be evaluated or any other place the person to be evaluated is
found.If prepetition screening is not possible, the screening agency
shall proceed as in section 36521, subsection B.
G.If a person is being treated by prayer or
spiritual means alone in accordance with the tenets and practices of a
recognized church or religious denomination by a duly accredited practitioner
of that church or denomination, such person may not be ordered evaluated,
detained or involuntarily treated unless the court has determined that the
person is, as a result of mental disorder, a danger to others or to self.
H.Courtordered evaluation or treatment
pursuant to this chapter shall not operate to change the legal residence of a
patient.
I.If the application is not acted upon because it
has been determined that the proposed patient does not need an evaluation, the
agency after a period of six months shall destroy the application and any other
evidence of the application.
J.For the purposes of this section,
"person" includes a person who:
1.Is under eighteen years of age.
2.Has been transferred to the criminal division of
the superior court pursuant to section 8327 or who has been charged with
an offense pursuant to section 13501.
3.Is under the supervision of an adult probation
department. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 36-520, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 26, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-520.Application for evaluation; definition
A.Any responsible individual may apply for a courtordered
evaluation of a person who is alleged to be, as a result of a mental disorder,
a danger to self or to others or a person with a persistent or acute disability
or a grave disability and who is unwilling or unable to undergo a voluntary
evaluation.The application shall be made in the prescribed form and
manner as adopted by the director.
B.The application for evaluation shall include the
following data:
1.The name, and address if known, of the proposed
patient for whom evaluation is applied.
2.The age, date of birth, sex, race, marital
status, occupation, social security number, present location, dates and places
of previous hospitalizations, names and addresses of the guardian, spouse, next
of kin and significant other persons and other data that the director may
require on the form to whatever extent that this data is known and is
applicable to the proposed patient.
3.Any known
criminal history of the proposed patient, including whether the proposed
patient has ever been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
3.4.The name, address
and relationship of the person who is applying for the evaluation.
4.5.A statement that
the proposed patient is believed to be, as a result of a mental disorder, a
danger to self or to others or a patient with a persistent or acute disability
or a grave disability and the facts on which this statement is based.
5.6.A statement that
the applicant believes the proposed patient is in need of supervision, care and
treatment and the facts on which this statement is based.
C.The application shall be signed and notarized.
D.The screening agency shall offer assistance to
the applicant in preparation of the application.On receipt of the
application, the screening agency shall act as prescribed in section 36521
within fortyeight hours of the filing of the application excluding
weekends and holidays.If the application is not acted upon within
fortyeight hours, the reasons for not acting promptly shall be reviewed
by the director of the screening agency or the director's designee.
E.If the applicant for the courtordered
evaluation presents the person to be evaluated at the screening agency, the
agency shall conduct a prepetition screening examination.Except in
the case of an emergency evaluation, the person to be evaluated shall not be
detained or forced to undergo prepetition screening against the person's will.
F.If the applicant for the courtordered
evaluation does not present the person to be evaluated at the screening agency,
the agency shall conduct the prepetition screening at the home of the person to
be evaluated or any other place the person to be evaluated is
found.If prepetition screening is not possible, the screening
agency shall proceed as in section 36521, subsection B.
G.If a person is being treated by prayer or
spiritual means alone in accordance with the tenets and practices of a
recognized church or religious denomination by a duly accredited practitioner
of that church or denomination, such person may not be ordered evaluated,
detained or involuntarily treated unless the court has determined that the
person is, as a result of mental disorder, a danger to others or to self.
H.Courtordered evaluation or treatment
pursuant to this chapter does not operate to change the legal residence of a
patient.
I.If the application is not acted on because it has
been determined that the proposed patient does not need an evaluation, the
agency after a period of six months shall destroy the application and any other
evidence of the application.
J.For the purposes of this section,
"person" includes a person who:
1.Is under eighteen years of age.
2.Has been transferred to the criminal division of
the superior court pursuant to section 8327 or who has been charged with
an offense pursuant to section 13501.
3.Is under the supervision of an adult probation
department. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 36-522, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 1992, chapter 301, section 20, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-522.Voluntary evaluation
A.Except as
provided in section 36534, if the petition for courtordered
evaluation is not filed because it has been determined that the proposed
patient will voluntarily receive an evaluation and is unlikely to present a
danger to self or others until the voluntary evaluation, the evaluation agency
provided for by the county, or selected by the proposed patient, shall be
immediately notified and shall provide evaluation of the proposed patient at a
scheduled time and place within five days of the notice.The
voluntary evaluation may be on an inpatient or outpatient basis.
B.Voluntary inpatient evaluation is subject to the provisions of article 3 of
this chapter.
C.Voluntary outpatient evaluation shall conform to
the requirements of section 36530, subsection D and section 36531,
subsections B, C and D and shall proceed only after the person to be evaluated
has given consent to be evaluated by signing a form prescribed by the deputy
director which that includes information to
the proposed patient that the patientphysician privilege does not apply
and that the evaluation may result in a petition for the person to undergo
courtordered treatment or for guardianship.Voluntary
evaluation may be carried out only if chosen by the patient during the course
of a prepetition screening after application for evaluation has been made. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 36-522, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 28, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-522.Voluntary evaluation
A.Except as
provided in section 36534, if the petition for courtordered
evaluation is not filed because it has been determined that the proposed
patient will voluntarily receive an evaluation and is unlikely to present a
danger to self or others until the voluntary evaluation, the evaluation agency
provided for by the county, or selected by the proposed patient, shall be
immediately notified and shall provide evaluation of the proposed patient at a
scheduled time and place within five days of the notice.The
voluntary evaluation may be on an inpatient or outpatient basis.
B.Voluntary inpatient evaluation is subject to
article 3 of this chapter.
C.Voluntary outpatient evaluation shall conform to
the requirements of section 36530, subsection D and section 36531,
subsections B, C and D and shall proceed only after the person to be evaluated
has given consent to be evaluated by signing a form prescribed by the director
that includes information to the proposed patient that the patientphysician
privilege does not apply and that the evaluation may result in a petition for the
person to undergo courtordered treatment or for
guardianship.Voluntary evaluation may be carried out only if chosen
by the patient during the course of a prepetition screening after an
application for evaluation has been made. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 36-523, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 103, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE36-523.Petition for evaluation
A.The petition for evaluation shall contain the
following:
1.The name, address and interest in the case of the
individual who applied for the petition.
2.The name, and address if known, of the proposed
patient for whom evaluation is petitioned.
3.The present whereabouts of the proposed patient,
if known.
4.A statement alleging that there is reasonable
cause to believe that the proposed patient has a mental disorder and is as a
result a danger to self or others, has a persistent or acute disability or a grave
disability and is unwilling or unable to undergo voluntary evaluation.
5.A summary of the facts which that
support the allegations that the proposed patient is dangerous,
has a persistent or acute disability or a grave disability and is unwilling or
unable to be voluntarily evaluated including the facts which that
brought the proposed patient to the screening agency's attention.
6.Any known
criminal history of the proposed patient, including whether the proposed
patient has ever been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
6.7.Other information
that the deputy director, with the approval of the director, by rule or the
court by rule or order may require.
B.The petition shall request that the court issue
an order requiring that the proposed patient be given an evaluation and shall
advise the court of both of the following:
1.That the opinion of the petitioner is either that
the proposed patient is or is not in such a condition that without immediate or
continuing hospitalization he is likely to suffer serious physical harm or
further deterioration or inflict serious physical harm upon on
another person.
2.If the opinion of the petitioner is that the
proposed patient is not in the condition described in paragraph 1 of this
subsection, that the opinion of the petitioner is either that the evaluation
should or should not take place on an outpatient basis.
C.The petition for evaluation shall be accompanied
by the application for evaluation, by the recommendation of the county attorney
pursuant to section 36521 and by a prepetition screening report, unless
such documents have not been prepared under a provision of law or in accordance
with an order of the court.The petition for evaluation shall also
be accompanied by a copy of the application for emergency admission if one
exists.
D.A petition and other forms required in a court
may be filed only by the screening agency which has prepared the petition.
E.If the petition is not filed because it has been
determined that the person does not need an evaluation, the agency after a
period of six months shall destroy the petition and the various reports annexed
to the petition as required by this section.
F.If the
petition is not filed because it has been determined that the person does not
need an evaluation and the person has been found by a court to be incompetent
to stand trial pursuant to section 13-4510, the person shall be remanded for a
disposition pursuant to section 13-4517. If the person is out of custody, the court
may order that the person be taken into custody for a disposition pursuant to
this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 36-523, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 29, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-523.Petition for evaluation
A.The petition for evaluation shall contain the
following:
1.The name, address and interest in the case of the
individual who applied for the petition.
2.The name, and address if known, of the proposed
patient for whom evaluation is petitioned.
3.The present whereabouts of the proposed patient,
if known.
4.A statement alleging that there is reasonable
cause to believe that the proposed patient has a mental disorder and is as a
result a danger to self or others, has a persistent or acute disability or a
grave disability and is unwilling or unable to undergo voluntary evaluation.
5.A summary of the facts that support the
allegations that the proposed patient is dangerous, has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability and is unwilling or unable to be voluntarily
evaluated, including the facts that brought the proposed patient to the
screening agency's attention.
6.Any known
criminal history of the proposed patient, including whether the proposed
patient has ever been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
6.7.Other
information that the director by rule or the court by rule or order may
require.
B.The petition shall request that the court issue
an order requiring that the proposed patient be given an evaluation and shall
advise the court of both of the following:
1.That the opinion of the petitioner is either that
the proposed patient is or is not in such a condition that without immediate or
continuing hospitalization the patient is likely to suffer serious physical
harm or further deterioration or inflict serious physical harm on another
person.
2.If the opinion of the petitioner is that the proposed
patient is not in the condition described in paragraph 1 of this subsection,
that the opinion of the petitioner is either that the evaluation should or
should not take place on an outpatient basis.
C.The petition for evaluation shall be accompanied by
the application for evaluation, by the recommendation of the county attorney
pursuant to section 36521 and by a prepetition screening report, unless
the documents have not been prepared under a provision of law or in accordance
with an order of the court.The petition for evaluation shall also
be accompanied by a copy of the application for emergency admission if one
exists.
D.A petition and other forms required in a court
may be filed only by the screening agency that has prepared the petition.
E.If the petition is not filed because it has been
determined that the person does not need an evaluation, the agency after a
period of six months shall destroy the petition and the various reports annexed
to the petition as required by this section.
F.If the
petition is not filed because it has been determined that the person does not
need an evaluation and the person has been found by a court to be incompetent
to stand trial pursuant to section 13-4510, the person shall be remanded for a
disposition pursuant to section 13-4517. If the person is out of custody, the
court may order that the person be taken into custody for a disposition
pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 36-529, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-529.Order for evaluation; order for detention; hearing
A.If, from the review of the petition for
evaluation, the court does not determine that the proposed patient is likely to
present a danger to self or others or further deteriorate prior to his hearing
on courtordered treatment, but determines that there is reasonable cause
to believe that the proposed patient is, as a result of a mental disorder, a
danger to self or others, or has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability, the court shall issue an order directing the
proposed patient to submit to an evaluation at a designated time and place,
specifying that the evaluation will take place on an inpatient or an outpatient
basis.The court may also order that if the person does not or
cannot so submit, that he be taken into custody by a police peace
officer and delivered to an evaluation agency.If the
court makes such a conditional order, it shall also make a conditional
appointment of counsel for the person to become effective when and if the
person is taken into custody pursuant to this section.
B.If, from review of the petition for evaluation,
there is reasonable cause to believe that the proposed patient is, as a result
of a mental disorder, a danger to self or others, or
has a persistent or acute disability or a grave disability and
that the person requires immediate or continued hospitalization prior to his
hearing on courtordered treatment, the court shall order the proposed
patient taken into custody and evaluated at an evaluation
agency.The court shall promptly appoint counsel for the proposed
patient.If an intercounty agreement authorizes the same, the court
may order that the evaluation be conducted in another county, and the superior
court in the county where the evaluation is conducted shall have concurrent
jurisdiction to make appropriate orders concerning the proposed patient.
C.If the person is not taken into custody or if the
evaluation pursuant to the order of the court under subsection A or B is not
initiated within fourteen days from the date of the order, the order and
petition for evaluation shall expire. If
the person has been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section
13-4510, the court and the prosecuting agency shall receive notice of the
expiration of the order for evaluation. The court may enter any orders
necessary for further disposition pursuant to section 134517, including
a pickup order directing that the person be taken into custody. this
subsection does not prevent any person from initiating another court ordered
evaluation of the person pursuant to title 36, chapter 5.
D.If the person is involuntarily hospitalized, the
person shall be informed by his appointed attorney of his rights to a hearing
to determine whether he should be involuntarily hospitalized for evaluation and
to be represented at the hearing by an attorney.If the patient
requests a hearing to determine whether he should be involuntarily hospitalized
during evaluation, the court shall schedule a hearing at its first opportunity.
END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 36-531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 105, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE36-531.Evaluation; possible dispositions; release
A.A person being evaluated on an inpatient basis in
an evaluation agency shall be released if, in the opinion of the medical
director of the agency, further evaluation is not appropriate unless the person
makes application for further care and treatment on a voluntary basis.
B.If it is determined upon an evaluation of the
patient's condition that he the patient is, as a result of
a mental disorder, a danger to self or to others,
or has a persistent or acute disability or a grave disability,
the medical director in charge of the agency which that
provided the evaluation shall, unless the person makes
application for further care and treatment on a voluntary basis, prepare, sign
and file a petition for courtordered treatment unless the county
attorney performs the functions of preparing, signing or filing the petition as
provided in subsection C of this section.
C.The agency may contact the county attorney to
obtain his assistance in
preparing the petition for courtordered treatment, and the agency may
request the advice and judgment of the county attorney in reaching a decision
as to whether courtordered treatment is justified.
D.A person being evaluated on an inpatient basis in
an evaluation agency shall be released within seventytwo hours,
excluding weekends and holidays, from the time that he is hospitalized pursuant
to a court order for evaluation, unless the person makes application for
further care and treatment on a voluntary basis or unless a petition for courtordered
treatment has been filed pursuant to subsection B of this section.
E.If a
person has been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 13-4510,
the medical director of an evaluation agency shall provide immediate notice to
the court and the prosecuting agency of the director's intention to release the
person under this section. The court may order the person returned to custody for
a disposition pursuant to section 134517. At any hearing held pursuant
to this subsection, the court shall order the medical director to provide the
patient's records, including medical and treatment records, to the court and
the prosecuting agency.
E.F.The
department of health services may conduct jointly with a school district,
directly or indirectly, an educational evaluation pursuant to sections 15765
and 15766 for nonadjudicated youth.The evaluation
information may be shared by and among authorized personnel employed by the
department of health services and the department of education, or authorized
personnel from the local education agency, for purposes of ensuring the
provision of special education and related services as required by the
individuals with disabilities education act (20 United States Code sections
1400 through 1415). END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 36-531, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 30, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-531.Evaluation; possible dispositions; release
A.A person who is being evaluated on an inpatient
basis in an evaluation agency shall be released if, in the opinion of the
medical director of the agency, further evaluation is not appropriate unless
the person applies for further care and treatment on a voluntary basis.
B.If it is determined on an evaluation of the
patient's condition that the patient is, as a result of a mental disorder, a
danger to self or to others or has a persistent or acute disability or a grave
disability, the medical director in charge of the agency that provided the
evaluation, unless the person applies for further care and treatment on a
voluntary basis, shall prepare, sign and file a petition for courtordered
treatment unless the county attorney performs the functions of preparing,
signing or filing the petition as provided in subsection C of this section.
C.The agency may contact the county attorney to
obtain assistance in preparing the petition for courtordered treatment,
and the agency may request the advice and judgment of the county attorney in
reaching a decision as to whether courtordered treatment is justified.
D.A person being evaluated on an inpatient basis in
an evaluation agency shall be released within seventytwo hours,
excluding weekends and holidays, from the time that the person is hospitalized
pursuant to a court order for evaluation, unless the person applies for further
care and treatment on a voluntary basis or unless a petition for courtordered
treatment has been filed pursuant to subsection B of this section.
E.If a
person has been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 13-4510,
the medical director of an evaluation agency shall provide immediate notice to
the court and the prosecuting agency of the director's intention to release the
person under this section. The court may order the person returned to custody
for a disposition pursuant to section 134517. At any hearing held
pursuant to this subsection, the court shall order the medical director to
provide the patient's records, including medical and treatment records, to the
court and the prosecuting agency.
E.F.The
administration may conduct jointly with a school district, directly or
indirectly, an educational evaluation pursuant to sections 15765 and 15766
for nonadjudicated youth.The evaluation information may be shared
by and among authorized personnel employed by the administration and the
department of education, or authorized personnel from the local education
agency, for purposes of ensuring the provision of special education and related
services as required by the individuals with disabilities education act (20
United States Code sections 1400 through 1415).END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 36-533, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-533.Petition for treatment
A.The petition for courtordered treatment
shall allege:
1.That the patient is in need of a period of
treatment because the patient, as a result of mental disorder, is a danger to
self or to others, or has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability.
2.The treatment alternatives that are appropriate
or available.
3.That the patient is unwilling to accept or
incapable of accepting treatment voluntarily.
B.The petition shall be accompanied by the
affidavits of the two physicians who participated in the evaluation and by the
affidavit of the applicant for the evaluation, if any.The
affidavits of the physicians shall describe in detail the behavior that
indicates that the person, as a result of mental disorder, is a danger to self
or to others, or has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability and shall be based on the physician's
observations of the patient and the physician's study of information about the
patient. A summary of the facts that support the allegations of the petition
shall be included. The affidavit shall also include any of the results of the
physical examination of the patient if relevant to the patient's psychiatric
condition. 
C.The petition shall request the court to issue an
order requiring the person to undergo a period of treatment. The petition shall set forth any known criminal history of
the person, including whether the person has been found incompetent to stand
trial pursuant to section 134510 and whether there has been a
determination that the person is dangerous pursuant to section 13-4518.
D.In cases of grave
disability the petition shall also include:
1.A statement that
in the opinion of the petitioner the person with a grave disability does or
does not require guardianship or conservatorship, or both, under title 14 and
the reasons on which the statement is based.
2.A request that the court order an independent
investigation and report for the court if in the opinion of the petitioner the
person does require guardianship or conservatorship, or both.
3.A statement that in the opinion of the petitioner
the person with a grave disability does or does not require temporary
guardianship or conservatorship, or both, and the reasons on which the
statement is based.
4.A request that the court appoint a temporary
guardian or conservator, or both, if in the opinion of the petitioner the
person does require temporary guardianship or conservatorship, or both.
E.A copy of the petition in cases of grave
disability shall be mailed to the public fiduciary in the county of the
patient's residence or in which the patient was found before evaluation and to
any person nominated as guardian or conservator.
F.A copy of all petitions shall be mailed to the
superintendent of the Arizona state hospital. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 36-534, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-534.Change to voluntary status; discharge; notice; hearing
A.If,
after a petition for courtordered treatment has been filed and prior to
the hearing, the medical director of the agency finds that it is more
appropriate to discharge the patient or to admit the proposed patient on a
voluntary basis, the medical director shall,
after receiving approval from the court, shall either discharge the patient or admit the patient for
further treatment on a voluntary basis.
b.If the
court approves admitting a patient who has been found incompetent to stand
trial pursuant to section 13-4510 to voluntary treatment or before a patient is
discharged pursuant to this section, the medical director shall provide notice
to the prosecuting agency.The prosecuting agency may request a
hearing to determine whether the court should order the defendant returned to
custody for a disposition pursuant to section 13-4517. For any hearing held
pursuant to this subsection, the court shall order the medical director to
provide the patient's records, including medical and treatment records, to the
court and to the prosecuting agency. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 36-540, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-540.Court options
A.If the court finds by clear and convincing
evidence that the proposed patient, as a result of mental disorder, is a danger
to self, is a danger to others, has a persistent or acute disability or a grave
disability and is in need
of treatment, and is either unwilling or unable to accept voluntary treatment,
the court shall order the patient to undergo one of the following:
1.Treatment in a program of outpatient treatment.
2.Treatment in a program consisting of combined
inpatient and outpatient treatment.
3.Inpatient treatment in a mental health treatment
agency, in a hospital operated by or under contract with the United States
department of veterans affairs to provide treatment to eligible veterans
pursuant to article 9 of this chapter, in the state hospital or in a private
hospital, if the private hospital agrees, subject to the limitations of section
36541.
B.The court shall consider all available and
appropriate alternatives for the treatment and care of the
patient.The court shall order the least restrictive treatment
alternative available.
C.The court may order the proposed patient to
undergo outpatient or combined inpatient and outpatient treatment pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section if the court:
1.Determines that all of the following apply:
(a)The patient does not require continuous
inpatient hospitalization.
(b)The patient will be more appropriately treated
in an outpatient treatment program or in a combined inpatient and outpatient
treatment program.
(c)The patient will follow a prescribed outpatient
treatment plan.
(d)The patient will not likely become dangerous or
suffer more serious physical harm or serious illness or further deterioration
if the patient follows a prescribed outpatient treatment plan.
2.Is presented with and approves a written
treatment plan that conforms with the requirements of section 36540.01,
subsection B.If the treatment plan presented to the court pursuant
to this subsection provides for supervision of the patient under court order by
a mental health agency that is other than the mental health agency that
petitioned or requested the county attorney to petition the court for treatment
pursuant to section 36531, the treatment plan must be approved by the
medical director of the mental health agency that will supervise the treatment
pursuant to subsection E of this section.
D.An order to receive treatment pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section shall not exceed three hundred
sixtyfive days.The period of inpatient treatment under a
combined treatment order pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section
shall not exceed the maximum period allowed for an order for inpatient
treatment pursuant to subsection F of this section.
E.If the court enters an order for treatment
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1 or 2 of this section, all of the
following apply:
1.The court shall designate the medical director of
the mental health treatment agency that will supervise and administer the
patient's treatment program.
2.The medical director shall not use the services
of any person, agency or organization to supervise a patient's outpatient
treatment program unless the person, agency or organization has agreed to
provide these services in the individual patient's case and unless the
department has determined that the person, agency or organization is capable
and competent to do so.
3.The person, agency or organization assigned to
supervise an outpatient treatment program or the outpatient portion of a
combined treatment program shall be notified at least three days before a
referral. The medical director making the referral and the person, agency or
organization assigned to supervise the treatment program shall share relevant
information about the patient to provide continuity of treatment.
4.The court
may include in the order reasonable restrictions on the patient's residence and
travel that are necessary to protect the patient's wellbeing and the
public.The court may also require that the medical director provide
notice to the court of changes in the patient's residence, employment or terms
of treatment.
5.The court
shall order that the medical director provide notice to the court of any
noncompliance with the terms of a treatment order.
4.6.During
any period of outpatient treatment under subsection A, paragraph 2 of this
section, if the court, on its own
motion or on motion by the medical director of the patient's
outpatient mental health treatment facility, determines that the patient is not
complying with the terms of the order or that the outpatient treatment plan is
no longer appropriate and the patient needs inpatient treatment, the court,
without a hearing and based on the court record, the patient's medical record,
the affidavits and recommendations of the medical director, and the advice of
staff and physicians or the psychiatric and mental health nurse practitioner
familiar with the treatment of the patient, may enter an order amending its
original order. The amended order may alter the outpatient treatment plan or
order the patient to inpatient treatment pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 3
of this section.The amended order shall not increase the total
period of commitment originally ordered by the court or, when added to the
period of inpatient treatment provided by the original order and any other
amended orders, exceed the maximum period allowed for an order for inpatient
treatment pursuant to subsection F of this section.If the patient
refuses to comply with an amended order for inpatient treatment, the court, on its own motion or on the request of the
medical director, may authorize and direct a peace officer, on the request of the medical director,
to take the patient into protective custody and transport the patient to the
agency for inpatient treatment.Any authorization, directive or order issued to a peace
officer to take the patient into protective custody shall include the patient's
criminal history and the name and telephone numbers of the patient's case
manager, guardian, spouse, next of kin or significant other, as applicable.
When reporting to or being returned to a treatment agency for inpatient
treatment pursuant to an amended order, the patient shall be informed of the
patient's right to judicial review and the patient's right to consult with
counsel pursuant to section 36546.
5.7.During
any period of outpatient treatment under subsection A, paragraph 2 of this
section, if the medical director of the outpatient treatment facility in charge
of the patient's care determines, in concert with the medical director of an
inpatient mental health treatment facility who has agreed to accept the
patient, that the patient is in need of immediate acute inpatient psychiatric
care because of behavior that is dangerous to self or to others, the medical
director of the outpatient treatment facility may order a peace officer to
apprehend and transport the patient to the inpatient treatment facility pending
a court determination on an amended order under paragraph 4
6 of this subsection. The patient may be detained and treated at
the inpatient treatment facility for a period of no more than fortyeight
hours, exclusive of weekends and holidays, from the time that the patient is
taken to the inpatient treatment facility.The medical director of
the outpatient treatment facility shall file the motion for an amended court
order requesting inpatient treatment no later than the next working day
following the patient being taken to the inpatient treatment facility. Any
period of detention within the inpatient treatment facility pending issuance of
an amended order shall not increase the total period of commitment originally
ordered by the court or, when added to the period of inpatient treatment
provided by the original order and any other amended orders, exceed the maximum
period allowed for an order for inpatient treatment pursuant to subsection F of
this section.If a patient is ordered to undergo inpatient treatment
pursuant to an amended order, the medical director of the outpatient treatment
facility shall inform the patient of the patient's right to judicial review and
to consult with an attorney pursuant to section 36546.
F.The maximum periods of inpatient treatment that
the court may order, subject to the limitations of section 36541, are as
follows:
1.Ninety days for a person found to be a danger to
self.
2.One hundred eighty days for a person found to be
a danger to others.
3.One hundred eighty days for a person found to
have a persistent or acute disability.
4.Three hundred sixtyfive days for a person
found to have a grave disability.
G.If, on finding that the patient meets the
criteria for courtordered treatment pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the court also finds that there is reasonable cause to believe that
the patient is an incapacitated person as defined in section 145101 or
is a person in need of protection pursuant to section 145401 and that
the patient is or may be in need of guardianship or conservatorship, or both,
the court may order an investigation concerning the need for a guardian or
conservator, or both, and may appoint a suitable person or agency to conduct
the investigation.The appointee may include a court appointed
guardian ad litem, an investigator appointed pursuant to section 145308
or the public fiduciary if there is no person willing and qualified to act in
that capacity. The court shall give notice of the appointment to the appointee
within three days of the appointment.The appointee shall submit the
report of the investigation to the court within twentyone days. The
report shall include recommendations as to who should be guardian or who should
be conservator, or both, and a report of the findings and reasons for the
recommendation.If the investigation and report so indicate, the
court shall order the appropriate person to submit a petition to become the
guardian or conservator, or both, of the patient.
H.In any proceeding for courtordered
treatment in which the petition alleges that the patient is in need of a
guardian or conservator and states the grounds for that allegation, the court
may appoint an emergency temporary guardian or conservator, or both, for a
specific purpose or purposes identified in its order and for a specific period
of time not to exceed thirty days if the court finds that all of the following
are true:
1.The patient meets the criteria for court-ordered
treatment pursuant to subsection A of this section.
2.There is reasonable cause to believe that the
patient is an incapacitated person as defined in section 145101 or is in
need of protection pursuant to section 145401, paragraph 2.
3.The patient does not have a guardian or
conservator and the welfare of the patient requires immediate action to protect
the patient or the ward's property.
4.The conditions prescribed pursuant to section 145310,
subsection B or section 145401.01, subsection B have been met.
I.The court may appoint as a temporary guardian or
conservator pursuant to subsection H of this section a suitable person or the
public fiduciary if there is no person qualified and willing to act in that
capacity. The court shall issue an order for an investigation as prescribed
pursuant to subsection G of this section and, unless the patient is represented
by independent counsel, the court shall appoint an attorney to represent the
patient in further proceedings regarding the appointment of a guardian or
conservator. The court shall schedule a further hearing within fourteen days
on the appropriate court calendar of a court that has authority over guardianship
or conservatorship matters pursuant to this title to consider the continued
need for an emergency temporary guardian or conservator and the appropriateness
of the temporary guardian or conservator appointed, and shall order the
appointed guardian or conservator to give notice to persons entitled to notice
pursuant to section 145309, subsection A or section 145405,
subsection A.The court shall authorize certified letters of
temporary emergency guardianship or conservatorship to be issued on presentation
of a copy of the court's order.If a temporary emergency conservator
other than the public fiduciary is appointed pursuant to this subsection, the
court shall order that the use of the money and property of the patient by the
conservator is restricted and not to be sold, used, transferred or encumbered,
except that the court may authorize the conservator to use money or property of
the patient specifically identified as needed to pay an expense to provide for
the care, treatment or welfare of the patient pending further
hearing.This subsection and subsection H of this section do not:
1.Prevent the evaluation or treatment agency from
seeking guardianship and conservatorship in any other manner allowed by law at
any time during the period of courtordered evaluation and treatment.
2.Relieve the evaluation or treatment agency from
its obligations concerning the suspected abuse of a vulnerable adult pursuant
to title 46, chapter 4.
J.If, on finding that a patient meets the criteria
for court-ordered treatment pursuant to subsection A of this section, the court
also learns that the patient has a guardian appointed under title 14, the court
with notice may impose on the existing guardian additional duties pursuant to
section 145312.01.If the court imposes additional duties on
an existing guardian as prescribed in this subsection, the court may determine
that the patient needs to continue treatment under a court order for treatment
and may issue the order or determine that the patient's needs can be adequately
met by the guardian with the additional duties pursuant to section 145312.01
and decline to issue the court order for treatment.If at any time
after the issuance of a court order for treatment the court finds that the
patient's needs can be adequately met by the guardian with the additional
duties pursuant to section 145312.01 and that a court order for
treatment is no longer necessary to assure compliance with necessary treatment,
the court may terminate the court order for treatment.If there is a
court order for treatment and a guardianship with additional mental health
authority pursuant to section 145312.01 existing at the same time, the
treatment and placement decisions made by the treatment agency assigned by the
court to supervise and administer the patient's treatment program pursuant to
the court order for treatment are controlling unless the court orders
otherwise.
K.The court shall file a report as part of the
court record on its findings of alternatives for treatment.
L.Treatment shall not include psychosurgery,
lobotomy or any other brain surgery without specific informed consent of the
patient or the patient's legal guardian and an order of the superior court in
the county in which the treatment is proposed, approving with specificity the
use of the treatment.
M.The medical director or any person, agency or
organization used by the medical director to supervise the terms of an
outpatient treatment plan is not civilly liable for any acts committed by a
patient while on outpatient treatment if the medical director, person, agency
or organization has in good faith followed the requirements of this section.
N.A peace officer who in good faith apprehends and
transports a patient to an inpatient treatment facility on the order of the
medical director of the outpatient treatment facility pursuant to subsection E,
paragraph 5 7 of this section is not
subject to civil liability.
O.If a person has been found, as a result of a
mental disorder, to constitute a danger to self or others or to have a
persistent or acute disability or a grave disability and the court enters an
order for treatment pursuant to subsection A of this section, the court shall
transmit the person's name, sex, date of birth, social security number, if
available, and date of the order for treatment to the supreme court. The
supreme court shall transmit the information to the department of public safety
to comply with the requirements of title 13, chapter 31 and title 32, chapter
26.The department of public safety shall transmit the information
to the national instant criminal background check system. The superior court
may access the information of a person who is ordered into treatment to enforce
or facilitate a treatment order.
P.On request, the clerk of the court shall provide
certified copies of the commitment order to a law enforcement or prosecuting
agency that is investigating or prosecuting a prohibited possessor as defined
in section 133101.
Q.If the
court does not find a person to be in need of treatment and the person has been
found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510, the court
shall notify the prosecuting agency of its finding. The person shall be
remanded to the custody of the sheriff for further disposition pursuant to section
13-4517. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 36-540.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-540.01.Conditional outpatient treatment
A.The medical director may issue an order for
conditional outpatient treatment for a patient ordered to undergo treatment
pursuant to section 36540 if, after consultation with staff familiar
with the patient's case history, the medical director determines with a
reasonable degree of medical probability that all of the following apply:
1.The patient no longer requires continuous
inpatient hospitalization.
2.The patient will be more appropriately treated in
an outpatient treatment program.
3.The patient will follow a prescribed outpatient
treatment plan.
4.The patient will not likely become dangerous,
suffer more serious physical harm or serious illness or further deteriorate if
the patient follows a prescribed outpatient treatment plan.
B.The order for conditional outpatient treatment
issued by the medical director shall include a written outpatient treatment
plan prepared by staff familiar with the patient's case history and approved by
the medical director.The plan shall include all of the following:
1.A statement of the patient's requirements, if
any, for supervision, medication and assistance in obtaining basic needs such
as employment, food, clothing or shelter.
2.The address of the residence where the patient is
to live and the name of the person in charge of the residence, if any.
3.The name and address of any person, agency or
organization assigned to supervise an outpatient treatment plan or care for the
patient, and the extent of authority of the person, agency or organization in
carrying out the terms of the plan.
4.The conditions for continued outpatient
treatment, which may require periodic reporting, continuation of medication and
submission to testing, and may restrict travel, consumption of spirituous
liquor and drugs, associations with others and incurrence of debts and
obligations or such other reasonable conditions as the medical director may
specify.
C.Before release for conditional outpatient
treatment, the patient shall be provided with copies and full explanations of
the medical director's order and the treatment plan.If, after full
explanation, the patient objects to the plan or any part of it, the objection
and reasons for the objection shall be noted in the patient's
record.The medical director's order and treatment plan shall be
filed in the patient's medical file and shall also be filed with the court.
D.The period for which conditional outpatient
treatment may be ordered may not exceed the remainder of the period of court
ordered treatment.
E.Before the release of a patient for outpatient
treatment, the medical director shall give notice pursuant to section 36541.01,
subsection B and a motion for a determination by the court as to whether the
standard for conditional release of the patient has been met may be made by the
persons and in the manner provided for in section 36541.01, subsection
H.Before the release of a person found to be a danger to self, or others or found to be a person with have a persistent or acute disability or a
grave disability for outpatient treatment, the medical director shall give
notice to the court that ordered the patient to undergo treatment. If criminal
charges against a patient involving death or serious physical injury or a violation of title 13,
chapter 14 are dismissed pursuant to section 134517, the medical
director shall notify the prosecuting agency if a civil commitment order issued
pursuant to this chapter expires or is terminated, or if the patient is
discharged to outpatient treatment. The medical director shall provide this
notice by mail at least five
ten days before the
anticipated date of the expiration, termination or discharge.
F.The medical director shall require periodic
reports concerning the condition of patients on conditional outpatient
treatment from any person, agency or organization assigned to supervise an
outpatient treatment plan. The medical director shall require these reports at
intervals not to exceed thirty days.
G.The medical director shall review the condition
of a patient on conditional outpatient treatment at least once every thirty
days and enter the findings in writing in the patient's file.In
conducting the review, the medical director shall consider all reports and
information received and may require the patient to report for further
evaluation.
H.The medical director may amend any part of the
outpatient treatment plan during the course of conditional outpatient
treatment.If the plan is amended, the medical director shall issue
a new order including the amended outpatient treatment plan.The new
order and amended outpatient treatment plan shall be filed in the patient's
medical file. Copies of the new order and outpatient treatment plan shall be
immediately provided to the patient and to any person, agency or organization
assigned to supervise an outpatient treatment plan.Copies of the
new order and outpatient treatment plan shall be immediately filed with the
court and, if the patient has been
found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510, with the
prosecuting agency.
I.The medical director may rescind an order for
conditional outpatient treatment and order the patient to return to a mental
health treatment agency at any time during the period of court ordered
treatment if, in the medical director's judgment, the patient has failed to
comply with a term of the outpatient treatment plan or if, for any reason, the
medical director determines that the patient needs inpatient treatment or that
conditional outpatient treatment is no longer appropriate.The medical director shall give notice to the
court that issued the treatment order and the prosecuting agency if the patient
has been found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
J.If the medical director rescinds an order for
conditional outpatient treatment and the patient is returned to a mental health
treatment agency for inpatient treatment, the patient shall be informed of the
patient's right to judicial review and right to consult with counsel pursuant
to section 36546.
K.If the medical director rescinds an order for
conditional outpatient treatment and orders the patient to return to a mental
health treatment agency, the medical director may request, or a court may order, a peace officer or a
designated officer or employee of the treatment agency to take the patient into
custody for immediate delivery to the agency pursuant to section 36544.
L.The medical director is not civilly liable for
any act committed by a patient while on conditional outpatient treatment if the
medical director has in good faith followed the requirements of this section.
M.This section does not prevent the medical
director from authorizing a patient ordered to undergo treatment pursuant to
section 36540 as a danger to self, or a danger to others, or a patient with a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability to leave the treatment agency for periods of
no more than five days under the care, custody and control of a spouse,
relative or other responsible person if the medical director determines that the
patient will not become dangerous or suffer serious physical harm or illness
during that time.
N.The medical director may authorize a patient who
is civilly committed pursuant to section 36540 to leave the state
hospital grounds unaccompanied if the leave is part of an inpatient
individualized treatment and discharge plan and the medical director determines
that the patient will not become dangerous or suffer serious physical harm or
illness during that time. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Title 36, chapter 5, article 5,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-540.03, to read:
START_STATUTE36-540.03.Noncompliance with outpatient treatment order; rescission;
notice; civil liability immunity
A.the court
that entered the treatment order for outpatient treatment shall be immediately
notified if a patient is noncompliant At any time with any condition of
outpatient treatment, including reporting, continuation of medication,
submission to testing, travel restrictions or residency requirements, and the
medical director is UNSUCCESSFUL in restoring compliance. If the patient has
been found to be incompetent pursuant to section 134510, notice shall be
immediately provided to the prosecuting agency.
B.The court
may enter any order necessary to maintain the patient's health, safety and
treatment and to protect the public, including rescinding the outpatient
treatment order.The court may enter an order directing a peace
officer to take the person into custody and return the patient to an inpatient
treatment facility. The court order shall include the patient's known criminal
history and the name and telephone numbers of the patient's case manager,
guardian, spouse, next of kin or significant other, as applicable.
C.If the
court rescinds an order for outpatient treatment pursuant to this section, the
patient shall be informed of the patient's right to judicial review and right
to consult with counsel pursuant to section 36546.
D.The
medical director of the mental health treatment agency is not liable in any
civil action for any act that is committed by a patient who is noncompliant
with the patient's treatment orders if the medical director has in good faith
followed the requirements of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 36-541.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 113, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE36-541.01.Release or discharge from treatment before expiration of
period ordered by court; notification of intent to release or discharge;
hearing
A.A patient who
is ordered to undergo treatment pursuant to this article may be
released from treatment before the expiration of the period ordered by the
court if, in the opinion of the medical director of the mental health treatment
agency, the patient no longer is, as a result of a mental disorder, a danger to
others, or a danger to self, or no longer has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability.A person who is ordered to undergo treatment as a
danger to others or who has been found
incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510 may
not be released or discharged from treatment before the expiration of the
period for treatment ordered by the court unless the medical director first
gives notice of intention to do so as provided by this section.
B.Before the release or discharge of a patient
ordered to undergo treatment, the medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall notify the following of the medical director's intention
to release or discharge the patient:
1.The presiding judge of the court that entered the
order for treatment.
2.Any relative or victim of the patient who has
filed a demand for notice with the treatment agency.
3.Any person found by the court to have a
legitimate reason for receiving notice.
C.If criminal charges against a patient involving
death or serious physical injury or a violation of title 13, chapter 14 are
dismissed pursuant to section 134517, the medical director shall notify
the court and the prosecuting
agency if a civil commitment order issued pursuant to this chapter expires or
is terminated, or if the patient is discharged to outpatient treatment. The
medical director shall provide this notice by mail at least five ten
days before the anticipated date of the expiration, termination
or discharge.
D.If the director of the mental health treatment
agency is unable to determine, based on the information submitted pursuant to
subsection E of this section,
that a person who has filed a demand for notice is a victim the director shall
inform that person that that person's demand for notice is denied and that
notice will not be given unless ordered by the court pursuant to subsection F of this section.
E.A demand for notice by a relative or victim, and
a petition for notice by other persons, shall be on a form prescribed by the
department and shall include the following information:
1.The full name of the person to receive notice.
2.The address to which notice is to be mailed.
3.The telephone number of the person to receive
notice.
4.The relationship to the patient, if any, or the
reasons why the person believes the person has a legitimate reason to receive
notice.
5.A statement that the person will advise the
treatment agency in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, of any
change in the address to which notice is to be mailed.
6.The full name of the patient who is ordered to undergo treatment as a
danger to others or who has been found
incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
7.The mental health number assigned to the case by
the superior court.
F.If the court receives a demand for notice by a
relative or victim, the court shall order the medical director of the mental
health treatment agency not to release or discharge the patient before the
expiration of the period of courtordered treatment without first giving
notice to the relative or victim as provided in subsection G of this section.After considering
a petition for notice, if the court finds that the petitioner has a legitimate
reason for receiving prior notice, the court may order the medical director of
the mental health treatment agency not to release or discharge the patient from
inpatient treatment before the expiration of the period of courtordered
treatment without first giving notice to the petitioner as provided in
subsection G of this section.Any
order for notice shall be delivered to the mental health treatment agency and
shall be filed with the patient's clinical record.If the patient is
transferred to another agency or institution, any orders for notice shall be transferred
with the patient.
G.A notice of intention to release or discharge
shall include the following information:
1.The name of the patient to be released or
discharged.
2.The type of release or discharge.
3.The date of anticipated release or
discharge.Notices shall be placed in the mail, postage prepaid and
addressed to the court and to each person for whom notice has been ordered, at
least ten days before the date of intended release or discharge except notice
shall be sent to the prosecuting agency at least five ten
days before the date of intended release or
discharge.For purposes of computing the notice requirement, the day
of mailing shall not be counted.
H.Any person for whom prior notice is required
pursuant to this section, or the court, may make a motion within the
notification period that requires the court to determine whether the standard
for release of the patient before the expiration of the period for courtordered
treatment has been met.A determination that the standard for
release has been met may be made by the court based on a review of the record
and any affidavits submitted without further hearing.For good
cause, the court may order an evidentiary hearing.Whether or not a
hearing is held, the court shall make a determination at the earliest possible
time but no longer than three weeks after the anticipated date of release
pursuant to subsection G of this
section, and the patient shall be retained for the additional
time required for the court's determination.In making its
determination the court may order an independent examination of the
patient.If a motion is not made, the patient may be released in
accordance with the terms set forth in the notice without further court order.
If a hearing is held pursuant to this
subsection, the court shall order the medical director to provide the patient's
records, including medical and treatment records, to the court and the
prosecuting agency.
I.If a motion has not been made pursuant to
subsection H of this section,
the patient may be released or discharged and the medical director of the
mental health treatment agency shall send to the court a certificate that the
patient is no longer a danger to others, or a danger to self, or no longer has a persistent or acute
disability or a grave disability as the result of a mental disorder and
therefore is released before the expiration of the period ordered for
treatment.The court shall enter an order terminating the patient's
courtordered treatment.
J.The medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall not be held civilly liable for any acts committed by a
patient released before the expiration of the period of courtordered
treatment if the medical director has in good faith followed the requirements
of this section.
END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 36-541.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 33, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-541.01.Release or discharge from treatment before expiration of
period ordered by court; notification of intent to release or discharge;
hearing
A.A patient who is ordered to undergo treatment
pursuant to this article may be released from treatment before the expiration
of the period ordered by the court if, in the opinion of the medical director
of the mental health treatment agency, the patient no longer is, as a result of
a mental disorder, a danger to others or a danger to self or no longer has a
persistent or acute disability or a grave disability.A person who
is ordered to undergo treatment as a danger to others or who has been found to be incompetent to stand trial
pursuant to section 134510 may not be released or
discharged from treatment before the expiration of the period for treatment
ordered by the court unless the medical director first gives notice of
intention to do so as provided by this section.
B.Before the release or discharge of a patient who
is ordered to undergo treatment, the medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall notify the following of the medical director's intention
to release or discharge the patient:
1.The presiding judge of the court that entered the
order for treatment.
2.Any relative or victim of the patient who has filed
a demand for notice with the treatment agency.
3.Any person found by the court to have a
legitimate reason for receiving notice.
C.If criminal charges against a patient involving
death or serious physical injury or a violation of title 13, chapter 14 are
dismissed pursuant to section 134517, the medical director shall notify
the court and the prosecuting
agency if a civil commitment order issued pursuant to this chapter expires or
is terminated, or if the patient is discharged to outpatient treatment. The
medical director shall provide this notice by mail at least five ten
days before the anticipated date of the expiration, termination
or discharge.
D.If the director of the mental health treatment
agency is unable to determine, based on the information submitted pursuant to
subsection E of this section, that a person who has filed a demand for notice
is a victim, the director shall inform that person that that person's demand
for notice is denied and that notice will not be given unless ordered by the
court pursuant to subsection F of this section.
E.A demand for notice by a relative or victim, and
a petition for notice by other persons, shall be on a form prescribed by the
administration and shall include the following information:
1.The full name of the person to receive notice.
2.The address to which notice is to be mailed.
3.The telephone number of the person to receive
notice.
4.The relationship to the patient, if any, or the
reasons why the person believes the person has a legitimate reason to receive
notice.
5.A statement that the person will advise the
treatment agency in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, of any
change in the address to which notice is to be mailed.
6.The full name of the patient ordered to undergo
treatment as a danger to others or who
has been found to be incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510.
7.The mental health number assigned to the case by
the superior court.
F.If the court
receives a demand for notice by a relative or victim, the court shall order the
medical director of the mental health treatment agency not to release or
discharge the patient before the expiration of the period of courtordered
treatment without first giving notice to the relative or victim as provided in
subsection G of this section.After considering a petition for
notice, if the court finds that the petitioner has a legitimate reason for
receiving prior notice, the court may order the medical director of the mental
health treatment agency not to release or discharge the patient from inpatient
treatment before the expiration of the period of courtordered treatment
without first giving notice to the petitioner as provided in subsection G of
this section.Any order for notice shall be delivered to the mental
health treatment agency and shall be filed with the patient's clinical
record.If the patient is transferred to another agency or
institution, any orders for notice shall be transferred with the patient.
G.A notice of intention to release or discharge
shall include the following information:
1.The name of the patient to be released or
discharged.
2.The type of release or discharge.
3.The date of anticipated release or
discharge.Notices shall be placed in the mail, postage prepaid and
addressed to the court and to each person for whom notice has been ordered, at
least ten days before the date of intended release or discharge, except that
notice shall be sent to the prosecuting agency at least five ten
days before the date of intended release or
discharge.For purposes of computing the notice requirement, the day
of mailing shall not be counted.
H.Any person for whom prior notice is required
pursuant to this section, or the court, may make a motion within the
notification period that requires the court to determine whether the standard
for release of the patient before the expiration of the period for courtordered
treatment has been met.A determination that the standard for
release has been met may be made by the court based on a review of the record
and any affidavits submitted without further hearing.For good
cause, the court may order an evidentiary hearing.Whether or not a
hearing is held, the court shall make a determination at the earliest possible
time but no longer than three weeks after the anticipated date of release
pursuant to subsection G of this section, and the patient shall be retained for
the additional time required for the court's determination.In
making its determination the court may order an independent examination of the
patient.If a motion is not made, the patient may be released in
accordance with the terms set forth in the notice without further court order.
If a hearing is held pursuant to this
subsection, the court shall order the medical director to provide the patient's
records, including medical and treatment records, to the court and the
prosecuting agency.
I.If a motion has not been made pursuant to
subsection H of this section, the patient may be released or discharged and the
medical director of the mental health treatment agency shall send to the court
a certificate that the patient is no longer a danger to others or a danger to
self or no longer has a persistent or acute disability or a grave disability as
the result of a mental disorder and therefore is released before the expiration
of the period ordered for treatment.The court shall enter an order
terminating the patient's courtordered treatment.
J.The medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall not be held civilly liable for any acts committed by a
patient who is released before the expiration of the period of courtordered
treatment if the medical director has in good faith followed the requirements
of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 36-543, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2014, chapter 215, section 114, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE36-543.Release from treatment of a patient with a grave disability
or a patient with a persistent or acute disability; notice; annual review;
court order for continued treatment
A.A patient found to have a grave disability or a
persistent or acute disability and ordered to undergo treatment may be released
from inpatient treatment when, in the opinion of the medical director of the
mental health treatment agency, the level of care offered by the agency is no
longer required. The patient may agree to continue treatment
voluntarily.If the patient is to be released, the medical director
shall arrange for an appropriate alternative placement. If the patient has been found incompetent to stand trial
pursuant to section 134510, the medical director shall provide notice of
the intent to release the patient to the court and the prosecuting agency at
least ten days before the anticipated date of the patient's release. The court
may enter any orders necessary to maintain the patient's health, safety and
treatment and to protect the public.IF a hearing is held pursuant
to this subsection, the court shall order the medical director to provide the
patient's records, including medical and treatment records, to the court and
the prosecuting agency.
B.If a patient to be released from inpatient
treatment is under guardianship, the medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall notify the guardian and any relevant regional behavioral
health authority ten days before the intended release date that the ward no
longer requires the level of care offered by the agency.The
guardian and, if relevant, the regional behavioral health authority shall
arrange alternative placement with the advice and recommendations of the
medical director of the mental health treatment agency.
C.The medical director of the mental health treatment
agency is not civilly liable for any acts committed by the released patient if
the medical director has in good faith complied with the requirements of this
article.
D.Within ninety days before the expiration of a
court order for treatment, the medical director of the mental health treatment
agency shall conduct an annual review of a patient who has been found to have a
grave disability or a persistent or acute disability and is undergoing courtordered
treatment to determine whether the continuation of courtordered
treatment is appropriate and to assess the needs of the patient for
guardianship or conservatorship, or both.The annual review shall
consist of the mental health treatment and clinical records contained in the
patient's treatment file. The mental health treatment agency shall keep a
record of the annual review.If the medical director believes that a
continuation of courtordered treatment is appropriate, the medical
director of the mental health treatment agency shall appoint one or more
psychiatrists to carry out a psychiatric examination of the patient. In any
proceeding conducted pursuant to this section, a patient has the right to have
an analysis of the patient's mental condition by an independent evaluation
pursuant to section 36538.
E.Each examiner participating in the psychiatric
examination of the patient shall submit a report to the medical director of the
mental health treatment agency that includes the following:
1.The examiner's opinions as to whether the patient
continues to have a grave disability or a persistent or acute disability as the
result of a mental disorder and be in
need of continued court-ordered treatment.In evaluating the
patient's need for continued court-ordered treatment, the examiner must consider,
along with all other evidence, the patient's history before and during the
current period of courtordered treatment, the patient's compliance with
recommended treatment and any other evidence relevant to the patient's ability
and willingness to follow recommended treatment with or without a court order.
2.A statement as to whether suitable alternatives
to courtordered treatment are available.
3.A statement as to whether voluntary treatment
would be appropriate.
4.A review of the patient's status as to
guardianship or conservatorship, or both, the adequacy of existing protections
of the patient and the continued need for guardianship or conservatorship, or
both.If the examiner concludes that the patient's needs in these
areas are not being adequately met, the examiner's report shall recommend that
the court order an investigation into the patient's needs.
5.If the patient has an existing guardian who does
not have the mental health powers authorized pursuant to section 145312.01,
a recommendation as to whether the additional mental health powers authorized
by section 145312.01 should be imposed on the existing guardian and
whether the patient's needs can be adequately addressed by a guardian with
mental health powers without the need for a court order for treatment or
whether the court order for treatment should continue regardless of the
additional mental health powers imposed on the guardian.
6.The results of any physical examination conducted
during the period of courtordered treatment if relevant to the
psychiatric condition of the patient.
F.After conducting the annual review as prescribed
in this section, if the medical director believes that continued courtordered
treatment is necessary or appropriate, not later than thirty days before the
expiration of the court order for treatment, the medical director shall file
with the court an application for continued court-ordered treatment alleging
the basis for the application and shall file simultaneously with the
application any psychiatric examination conducted as part of the annual
review.If the patient is under guardianship, the medical director
shall mail a copy of the application to the patient's guardian.
G.If an application for continued court-ordered
treatment is filed, all of the following apply:
1.If the patient does not have an attorney, the
court shall appoint an attorney to represent the patient.
2.Within ten days after appointment, an attorney
appointed pursuant to this subsection, to the extent possible, shall fulfill the
duties imposed pursuant to section 36537, review the medical director's
report and the patient's medical records, interview any physician who prepared
a report on the annual review and file a response requesting a hearing or
submitting the matter to the court for a ruling based on the record without a
hearing.
3.If a hearing is not requested, the court shall
rule on the application or set the matter for hearing. If a hearing is
requested, the hearing shall be held within three weeks after the request for
hearing is filed. The hearing may be continued for good cause on motion of a
party or on the court's own motion, and the expiration of the current court
order for treatment may be extended until a ruling by the court on an
application filed pursuant to this subsection.
4.The patient's attorney must be present at all
hearings and may subpoena and cross-examine witnesses and present evidence.
The patient has the right to attend all hearings, but may choose not to attend
a hearing. The patient's attorney may waive the patient's presence after
speaking with the patient and confirming that the patient understands the right
to be present and does not desire to attend.If the patient is
unable to be present at the hearing for medical or psychiatric reasons and the
hearing cannot be conducted where the patient is being treated or confined, or
the patient cannot appear by another reasonably feasible means, the court shall
require clear and convincing evidence that the patient is unable to be present
at the hearing and on such a finding may proceed with the hearing in the
patient's absence.
5.The evidence presented by the applicant includes
the testimony of one or more witnesses acquainted with the patient during the
period of courtordered treatment, which may be satisfied by a statement
agreed on by the parties, and the testimony of any physician who performed an
annual review of the patient, which may be satisfied by stipulating to the
admission of the examining physicians' written report prepared pursuant
subsection E of this section. The court may waive the need for the applicant
to present the testimony of witnesses acquainted with the patient as required
by this subsection, if it finds that the need for a continued court order for
treatment has been established by clear and convincing evidence from the other
testimony and evidence presented at the hearing.
6.At a hearing held pursuant to this subsection,
the court, with notice, may impose on an existing guardian additional powers
pursuant to section 145312.01. If the court finds that the patient's
needs can be adequately met by an existing guardian with the additional powers
pursuant to section 145312.01 and that a court order for treatment is
not necessary to ensure compliance with necessary treatment, the court may
terminate the court order for treatment or decline to issue an order continuing
court-ordered treatment. The court may also order an investigation into the
need for guardianship or conservatorship, or both, and may appoint a suitable person
or agency to conduct the investigation.The appointee may include a
courtappointed guardian ad litem, a courtappointed investigator
pursuant to section 145308 or the public fiduciary if there is no person
willing and qualified to act in that capacity.The court shall give
notice of the appointment to the appointee within three days after the
appointment.The appointee shall submit the report of the
investigation to the court within twenty-one days. The report shall include
recommendations as to who should be guardian or conservator, or both, and the
findings and reasons for the recommendation. If the investigation and report
so indicate, the court may authorize an appropriate person to file a petition
for appointment of a guardian or conservator for the patient.
H.If a hearing is held pursuant to subsection G of
this section, the party seeking the renewal of the court order must prove all
of the following by clear and convincing evidence:
1.The patient continues to have a mental disorder
and, as a result of that disorder, has either a persistent or acute disability
or a grave disability.
2.The patient is in need of continued court-ordered
treatment.
3.The patient is either unwilling or unable to
accept treatment voluntarily.
I.After a hearing held pursuant to subsection G of
this section, the court may order the patient to be released from courtordered
treatment or to undergo continued court-ordered treatment for a period not to
exceed the time periods prescribed in section 36540, subsection D.
J.The deputy director shall create and operate a
program to ensure that the examination and review of persons with grave
disabilities or persistent or acute disabilities under court order are carried
out in an effective and timely manner.The deputy director, with the
approval of the director, shall adopt rules needed to operate this program. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section
36-543, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section
34, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-543.Release from treatment of a patient with a grave
disability or a persistent or acute disability; notice; annual review; court
order for continued treatment; rules
A.A patient who is
found to have a grave disability or a persistent or acute disability and
ordered to undergo treatment may be released from inpatient treatment when, in
the opinion of the medical director of the mental health treatment agency, the
level of care offered by the agency is no longer required.The
patient may agree to continue treatment voluntarily. If the patient is to be
released, the medical director shall arrange for an appropriate alternative
placement. If the patient has been
found incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510, the medical
director shall provide notice of the intent to release the patient to the court
and the prosecuting agency at least ten days before the anticipated date of the
patient's release. The court may enter any orders necessary to maintain the
patient's health, safety and treatment and to protect the public.IF
a hearing is held pursuant to this subsection, the court shall order the
medical director to provide the patient's records, including medical and
treatment records, to the court and the prosecuting agency.
B.If a patient who is to be released from inpatient
treatment is under guardianship, the medical director of the mental health
treatment agency shall notify the guardian and any relevant regional behavioral
health authority ten days before the intended release date that the ward no
longer requires the level of care offered by the agency.The
guardian and, if relevant, the regional behavioral health authority shall
arrange alternative placement with the advice and recommendations of the
medical director of the mental health treatment agency.
C.The medical director of the mental health
treatment agency is not civilly liable for any acts committed by the released
patient if the medical director has in good faith complied with the
requirements of this article.
D.Within ninety days before the expiration of a
court order for treatment, the medical director of the mental health treatment
agency shall conduct an annual review of a patient who has been found to have a
grave disability or a persistent or acute disability and is undergoing courtordered
treatment to determine whether the continuation of courtordered
treatment is appropriate and to assess the needs of the patient for guardianship
or conservatorship, or both.The annual review shall consist of the
mental health treatment and clinical records contained in the patient's
treatment file. The mental health treatment agency shall keep a record of the
annual review.If the medical director believes that a continuation
of courtordered treatment is appropriate, the medical director of the
mental health treatment agency shall appoint one or more psychiatrists to carry
out a psychiatric examination of the patient.In any proceeding
conducted pursuant to this section, a patient has the right to have an analysis
of the patient's mental condition by an independent evaluation pursuant to
section 36538.
E.Each examiner participating in the psychiatric
examination of the patient shall submit a report to the medical director of the
mental health treatment agency that includes the following:
1.The examiner's opinions as to whether the patient
continues to have a grave disability or a persistent or acute disability as the
result of a mental disorder and be in need of continued court-ordered
treatment.In evaluating the patient's need for continued
court-ordered treatment, the examiner must consider, along with all other
evidence, the patient's history before and during the current period of courtordered
treatment, the patient's compliance with recommended treatment and any other
evidence relevant to the patient's ability and willingness to follow
recommended treatment with or without a court order.
2.A statement as to whether suitable alternatives
to courtordered treatment are available.
3.A statement as to whether voluntary treatment
would be appropriate.
4.A review of the patient's status as to
guardianship or conservatorship, or both, the adequacy of existing protections
of the patient and the continued need for guardianship or conservatorship, or
both.If the examiner concludes that the patient's needs in these
areas are not being adequately met, the examiner's report shall recommend that
the court order an investigation into the patient's needs.
5.If the patient has an existing guardian who does
not have the mental health powers authorized pursuant to section 145312.01,
a recommendation as to whether the additional mental health powers authorized
by section 145312.01 should be imposed on the existing guardian and
whether the patient's needs can be adequately addressed by a guardian with
mental health powers without the need for a court order for treatment or
whether the court order for treatment should continue regardless of the additional
mental health powers imposed on the guardian.
6.The results of any physical examination conducted
during the period of courtordered treatment if relevant to the
psychiatric condition of the patient.
F.After conducting the annual review as prescribed
in this section, if the medical director believes that continued courtordered
treatment is necessary or appropriate, not later than thirty days before the
expiration of the court order for treatment, the medical director shall file
with the court an application for continued court-ordered treatment alleging
the basis for the application and shall file simultaneously with the
application any psychiatric examination conducted as part of the annual
review.If the patient is under guardianship, the medical director
shall mail a copy of the application to the patient's guardian.
G.If an application for continued court-ordered
treatment is filed, all of the following apply:
1.If the patient does not have an attorney, the
court shall appoint an attorney to represent the patient.
2.Within ten days after appointment, an attorney
appointed pursuant to this subsection, to the extent possible, shall fulfill
the duties imposed pursuant to section 36537, review the medical
director's report and the patient's medical records, interview any physician
who prepared a report on the annual review and file a response requesting a
hearing or submitting the matter to the court for a ruling based on the record
without a hearing.
3.If a hearing is not requested, the court shall
rule on the application or set the matter for hearing. If a hearing is
requested, the hearing shall be held within three weeks after the request for
hearing is filed. The hearing may be continued for good cause on motion of a
party or on the court's own motion, and the expiration of the current court
order for treatment may be extended until a ruling by the court on an
application filed pursuant to this subsection.
4.The patient's attorney must be present at all
hearings and may subpoena and cross-examine witnesses and present evidence.
The patient has the right to attend all hearings, but may choose not to attend
a hearing. The patient's attorney may waive the patient's presence after
speaking with the patient and confirming that the patient understands the right
to be present and does not desire to attend.If the patient is
unable to be present at the hearing for medical or psychiatric reasons and the
hearing cannot be conducted where the patient is being treated or confined, or
the patient cannot appear by another reasonably feasible means, the court shall
require clear and convincing evidence that the patient is unable to be present
at the hearing and on such a finding may proceed with the hearing in the
patient's absence.
5.The evidence presented by the applicant includes
the testimony of one or more witnesses acquainted with the patient during the
period of courtordered treatment, which may be satisfied by a statement
agreed on by the parties, and the testimony of any physician who performed an
annual review of the patient, which may be satisfied by stipulating to the
admission of the examining physicians' written report prepared pursuant
subsection E of this section. The court may waive the need for the applicant
to present the testimony of witnesses acquainted with the patient as required
by this subsection, if it finds that the need for a continued court order for
treatment has been established by clear and convincing evidence from the other
testimony and evidence presented at the hearing.
6.At a hearing held pursuant to this subsection,
the court, with notice, may impose on an existing guardian additional powers
pursuant to section 145312.01.If the court finds that the
patient's needs can be adequately met by an existing guardian with the
additional powers pursuant to section 145312.01 and that a court order
for treatment is not necessary to ensure compliance with necessary treatment,
the court may terminate the court order for treatment or decline to issue an
order continuing court-ordered treatment.The court may also order
an investigation into the need for guardianship or conservatorship, or both,
and may appoint a suitable person or agency to conduct the
investigation.The appointee may include a courtappointed
guardian ad litem, a courtappointed investigator pursuant to section 145308
or the public fiduciary if there is no person willing and qualified to act in
that capacity.The court shall give notice of the appointment to the
appointee within three days after the appointment.The appointee
shall submit the report of the investigation to the court within twenty-one
days. The report shall include recommendations as to who should be guardian or
conservator, or both, and the findings and reasons for the recommendation. If
the investigation and report so indicate, the court may authorize an
appropriate person to file a petition for appointment of a guardian or
conservator for the patient.
H.If a hearing is held pursuant to subsection G of
this section, the party seeking the renewal of the court order must prove all
of the following by clear and convincing evidence:
1.The patient continues to have a mental disorder
and, as a result of that disorder, has either a persistent or acute disability
or a grave disability.
2.The patient is in need of continued court-ordered
treatment.
3.The patient is either unwilling or unable to
accept treatment voluntarily.
I.After a hearing held pursuant to subsection G of
this section, the court may order the patient to be released from courtordered
treatment or to undergo continued court-ordered treatment for a period not to
exceed the time periods prescribed in section 36540, subsection D.
J.The director shall create and operate a program
to ensure that the examination and review of persons with grave disabilities or
persistent or acute disabilities under court order are carried out in an
effective and timely manner.The director shall adopt rules needed
to operate this program. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 36-544, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-544.Unauthorized absences; notice; violation; classification;
tolling period; hearing
A.When any patient who is being evaluated or
treated is absent without proper authorization from an evaluation agency or a
mental health treatment agency, or when an order for outpatient treatment is
rescinded, any peace officer shall, upon oral or written request of the medical
director of the agency and without the necessity of a warrant or court order,
or any officer or employee of the agency who has been previously designated in
writing by the medical director of the agency to perform such duties may, take
into custody and deliver such patient to the agency.Such officers
and employees of the agency have the powers and duties of peace officers so far
as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. If the patient has not returned within seven days after the
beginning of the unauthorized absence, the medical director shall request a
peace officer to take the patient into custody and deliver the patient to the
agency.If the patient has been found incompetent to stand trial
pursuant to section 13-4510, the medical director shall notify the court of the
patient's absence as soon as the agency knows or should have known of the
patient's unauthorized absence. The court may enter any order necessary to take
the patient into custody, return the patient to the agency and protect the
public. Any order directing a peace officer to take the patient into custody
shall include the patient's criminal history and the name and telephone numbers
of the patient's case manager, guardian, spouse, next of kin or significant
other, as applicable.
B.Any person who intentionally assists any patient
being evaluated or treated in an agency to be absent from the agency without
proper authorization, or who intentionally assists a patient whom he knows to
be absent without proper authorization or whom he knows to be a patient whose
order for outpatient treatment has been rescinded and who has been ordered to
return to the agency, or to resist being returned to the agency after such
absence is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
C.The period of courtordered treatment
ceases to run during the unauthorized
absence of time the
patient is absent without authorization
from the jurisdiction
treatment agency or from
any required supervision or is
otherwise noncompliant with treatment orders and resumes running
only on the patient's voluntary or involuntary return to the treatment agency or compliance with treatment orders.
The patient shall remain enrolled with
the mental health treatment agency, notwithstanding the patient's unauthorized
absence, until the expiration of the treatment order or unless otherwise
ordered by the court.
D.A patient who remains on unauthorized absence
status continuously for at least ninety days may petition the court on his
return to the treatment agency for a hearing to determine his current mental
status and his present need for treatment.The court shall order a
hearing if requested by the patient, his legal guardian or an interested party.
The hearing shall be held within seventytwo hours after the request. If the patient has been found
incompetent to stand trial pursuant to section 134510, the court and the
prosecuting agency shall receive notice of the hearing. The court may elect to
conduct the hearing and the prosecuting agency may present evidence and argument.
E.Subsections
C and subsection D
of this section shall apply
applies only to inpatient
treatment pursuant to section 36540, subsection A, paragraphs 2 and 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section
36-546, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-546.Judicial review; right to be informed; request;
jurisdiction
A.In addition to the procedure for applying for a
writ of habeas corpus, as provided in title 13, chapter 38, article 26, a
patient receiving courtordered treatment or any person acting on the
patient's behalf may request the patient's release pursuant to the following:
1.A request in writing may be presented to any
member of the treatment staff of the agency providing the patient's
treatment.The request may be made on a prescribed form that shall
be prepared by the facility and made available for use by any
person.The completed form shall identify:
(a)The patient being treated and the agency at
which the patient is being treated.
(b)The person to whom the request for release was
made.
(c)The person making the request for release,
indicating whether the person is the patient being treated or someone acting on
the person's behalf.
2.The request, when signed and dated by the person
making the request for release, shall be delivered to the medical director of
the agency. Within three days of receipt of the request, the medical director
shall deliver the form, along with a current psychiatric report of the
patient's condition, to the clerk of the court.If the person
presenting the request refuses to sign the form, the medical director of the
agency shall proceed as if the form had been signed and shall note on the form
the circumstances as to why the form was not signed.
B.The patient shall be informed of the patient's
right to judicial review by the medical director of the agency and the
patient's right to consult with counsel at least once each sixty days while the
patient is undergoing courtordered treatment.The
notification required by this subsection shall be recorded in the clinical
record of the patient by the individual who gave the notice.
C.With the exception of requests made pursuant to
section 36540, subsection E, paragraphs 4
6 and 5 7 and section 36540.01,
subsection J for judicial review, a request for judicial review may not be made
sooner than sixty days after the issuance of the order for treatment or a
hearing on a previous petition for habeas corpus or the issuance of the court
order or other final resolution determining a previous request for judicial
review by the patient.
D.Judicial review shall be in the superior court in
the county in which the patient is being treated.That court may
review the additional material presented and enter its order without necessity
of further hearing.
E.The reviewing court may order a further hearing
on the affidavit of the attorney for the patient setting forth the need for
further evidentiary hearing and the reasons why the hearing is necessary before
the time set for the release of the patient.
F.The patient shall be informed of the patient's
right to consult an attorney by the person or court to whom the patient makes
the request for release at the time the patient makes the request and, in the
case of confinement in an agency, by the reviewing court within one day of its
receipt of notice from the medical director of the agency where the patient is
being treated.The patient shall be permitted to consult an attorney
to assist in preparation of a petition for the writ of habeas corpus and to
represent the patient in the hearing. If the patient is not represented by an
attorney, the reviewing court, within two days of its notice to the patient of
the patient's right to counsel, shall appoint an attorney to assist the patient
in the preparation of a petition and to represent the patient in the hearing.
G.The medical director of the mental health
treatment agency, at least twentyfour hours before the hearing, shall
provide the patient's attorney with a copy of the patient's medical records.
H.The patient's attorney shall fulfill all of the
following minimal duties:
1.Within twentyfour hours of appointment,
conduct an interview with the patient.
2.At least twentyfour hours before the
hearing, interview the patient's treatment physician or psychiatric and mental
health nurse practitioner if available.
3.Before the hearing, examine the clinical record
of the patient.
4.Before the hearing, examine the patient's court
records as to the patient's involuntary treatment.
I.An attorney who does not fulfill the duties
prescribed by subsection H of this section is subject to contempt of court. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 36-3701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-3701.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency" means any agency that is
authorized to direct the release of a person who is serving a sentence or term
of confinement or who is receiving treatment, including a state or federal
prison, a county jail and the Arizona state hospital or other mental health treatment agency.
2."Competent
professional" means a person who is:
(a)Familiar with the
state's sexually violent persons statutes and sexual offender treatment
programs available in this state.
(b)Approved by the superior court as meeting court
approved guidelines.
3."Conviction" includes a finding of
guilt at any time for a sexually violent offense or an order of the juvenile
court adjudicating the person delinquent for any sexually violent offense.
4."Less restrictive alternative" means
court ordered treatment in a setting that is less restrictive than total
confinement and that is conducted in a setting approved by the superintendent
of the state hospital.
5."Mental disorder" means a paraphilia,
personality disorder or conduct disorder or any combination of paraphilia,
personality disorder and conduct disorder that predisposes a person to commit
sexual acts to such a degree as to render the person a danger to the health and
safety of others.
6."Sexually
violent offense" means any of the following:
(a)Indecent exposure
to a person who is under fifteen years of age pursuant to section 131402,
public sexual indecency to a minor pursuant to section 131403, sexual
conduct with a minor pursuant to section 131405, sexual assault pursuant
to section 131406, molestation of a child pursuant to section 131410,
continuous sexual abuse of a child pursuant to section 131417 or sexual
assault of a spouse if the offense was committed before August 12, 2005.
(b)Second degree murder pursuant to section 131104,
first degree murder pursuant to section 131105, assault pursuant to
section 131203, aggravated assault pursuant to section 131204,
unlawful imprisonment pursuant to section 131303, kidnapping pursuant to
section 131304 or burglary in the first degree pursuant to section 131508
if the court at the time of sentencing or civil commitment proceedings
determines beyond a reasonable doubt that the act was sexually motivated
pursuant to section 13118.
(c)An attempt, a solicitation, a facilitation or a
conspiracy to commit an offense listed in subdivision (a) or (b) of this
paragraph.
(d)An act committed in another jurisdiction that if
committed in this state would be a sexually violent offense listed in
subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
(e)A conviction for a felony offense that was in
effect before September 1, 1978 and that if committed on or after September 1,
1978 would be comparable to a sexually violent offense listed in subdivision
(a) or (b) of this paragraph.
7."Sexually violent person" means a
person to whom both of the following apply:
(a)Has ever been convicted of or found guilty but
insane of a sexually violent offense or was charged with a sexually violent
offense and was determined incompetent to stand trial.
(b)Has a mental disorder that makes the person
likely to engage in acts of sexual violence. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Effective date
The following sections are effective from and after June 30,
2016:
1.Section 36520, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 26 and this act.
2.Section 36522, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 28 and this act.
3.Section 36523, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 29 and this act.
4.Section 36531, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 30 and this act.
5.Section 36541.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 33 and this act.
6.Section 36543, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 34 and this act.

