







REFERENCE TITLE: procurement; veterans; Arizona bidders;
  preference








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HB 2679









Introduced by
Representatives
  Espinoza, Andrade, Bolding, Cardenas, Larkin, Rios, Velasquez, Senator
  Contreras: Representatives Fernandez, Gabaldn, Mendez, Otondo, Senator
  Quezada





AN ACT

amending title
41, chapter 23, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 412505;
relating to the procurement code.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 23, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-2505, to read:
START_STATUTE41-2505.Preference for veteran-owned businesses and Arizona
bidders for identical bids; reciprocal preference;
definitions 
A.For
contracts awarded pursuant to section 41-2533, subsection G, a purchasing
agency shall give preference to a veteran-owned business or an Arizona bidder
in the following order over a nonresident bidder if there are two or more low,
responsive offers from responsible bidders that are identical in price:
1.A veteranowned
business bidder.
2.An
Arizona bidder.
B.A
purchasing agency shall add a percentage increase to the bid of a nonresident
bidder equal to the percentage, if any, of the preference given to the bidder
in the state in which the bidder resides. On or before January 1 of each year,
the department shall publish a list of states that give preference to in-state
bidders with the percentage increase applied in each state. A purchasing
agency may rely on the names of states and percentages so published in
determining the lowest responsible bidder without incurring any liability to
any bidder.
C.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Arizona
bidder" means a bidder that satisfies all of the following:
(a)Is authorized to transact
business in this state.
(b)Maintains its headquarters in
this state for at least twelve consecutive months before submitting a bid,
except that the requirement for maintaining headquarters in this state does not
apply if the bidder employs five hundred or more fulltime residents of
this state who are provided health care benefits through their employer.
(c)Has paid all assessed taxes.
2."Headquarters"
means a principal central administrative office where primary headquartersrelated
functions and services are performed, including financial, personnel,
administrative, legal, planning and similar business functions.
3."Veteran"
means a person who is a veteran of the armed forces of the United States and
who is separated from the armed forces of the United States under honorable
conditions.
4."Veteranowned
business" means a business to which all of the following apply:
(a)The
business is an individual proprietorship, partnership, corporation or joint
venture that is at least fifty-one percent owned by one or more veterans or,
for a business whose stock is publicly held, at least fifty-one percent of the
stock is owned by one or more veterans.
(b)The
management and daily operations of the business are controlled by one or more
veterans who own the business.
(c)The home
office of the business is located in this state and is not a branch or
subsidiary of a foreign corporation or firm or other foreign business.
END_STATUTE

