







REFERENCE TITLE: death penalty; prohibition







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2022









Introduced by
Representatives
  Mendez, Andrade, Cardenas, Gonzales, Plumlee: Clark, Gabaldn, Hale, Rios,
  Velasquez





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

proposing an
amendment to the constitution of Arizona; amending article II, sections 22 and
23, constitution of Arizona; amending article II, Constitution of Arizona, by
adding section 38; repealing article XXII, section 22, constitution of Arizona;
relating to the death penalty.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Article II, sections
22 and 23, Constitution of Arizona, are proposed to be amended as follows if
approved by the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE22.Bailable offenses
Section
22.A.All persons charged with crime shall be bailable
by sufficient sureties, except:
1.For capital offenses, sexual assault, sexual conduct
with a minor under fifteen years of age or molestation of a child under fifteen
years of age when the proof is evident or the presumption great.
2.For felony
offenses committed when the person charged is already admitted to bail on a
separate felony charge and where the proof is evident or the presumption great
as to the present charge.
3.For
felony offenses if the person charged poses a substantial danger to any other
person or the community, if no conditions of release which may be imposed will
reasonably assure the safety of the other person or the community and if the
proof is evident or the presumption great as to the present charge.
4.For
serious felony offenses as prescribed by the legislature if the person charged
has entered or remained in the United States illegally and if the proof is
evident or the presumption great as to the present charge.
B.The
purposes of bail and any conditions of release that are set by a judicial
officer include:
1.Assuring
the appearance of the accused.
2.Protecting
against the intimidation of witnesses.
3.Protecting
the safety of the victim, any other person or the community.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23.Trial by jury; number of jurors specified by law
Section23.The
right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate.Juries in criminal
cases in which a sentence of death or
imprisonment for thirty years or more is authorized by law shall consist of
twelve persons.In all criminal cases the unanimous consent of the
jurors shall be necessary to render a verdict.In all other cases,
the number of jurors, not less than six, and the number required to render a
verdict, shall be specified by law. END_STATUTE
2.Article
II, Constitution of Arizona, is proposed to be amended by adding section 38 as
follows if approved by the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE38.Sentence of death; prohibition
No person shall be
sentenced to death in this state. END_STATUTE
3.Article XXII, section
22, Constitution of Arizona, is proposed to be repealed as follows if approved
by the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
Article XXII, section
22, Constitution of Arizona, relating to the judgment of death, is repealed.
4.The Secretary of
State shall submit this proposition to the voters at the next general election
as provided by article XXI, Constitution of Arizona.

