







REFERENCE TITLE: clean elections; lobbying; rulemaking







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2035









Introduced by
Representative
  Petersen





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

enacting and ordering
the submission to the people of a measure relating to the citizens clean
elections act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the Legislature, the following measure, relating to the citizens clean
elections act, is enacted to become valid as a law if approved by the voters
and on proclamation of the Governor:
AN ACT
amending sections
16-949 and 16-956, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the citizens clean
elections act.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-949, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-949.Controls on spending from citizens clean elections fund;
definition
A.The commission shall not spend, on all costs
incurred under this article during a particular calendar year, more than five
dollars times the number of Arizona resident personal income tax returns filed
during the previous calendar year.The commission may exceed this
limit during a calendar year, provided that it is offset by an equal reduction
of the limit during another calendar year during the same fouryear
period beginning January 1 immediately after a gubernatorial election.
B.The commission may use up to ten per cent percent of the amount specified in subsection A of this
section for reasonable and necessary expenses of administration and
enforcement, including the activities specified in section 16956,
subsection A, paragraphs 3 through 7 and subsections B and C.Any
portion of the ten per cent
percent not used for this
purpose shall remain in the fund.
C.The commission may apply up to ten per cent percent of the amount specified in subsection
A of this section for reasonable and necessary expenses associated with public
education regarding participation as a candidate or a contributor, or regarding
the functions, purpose and technical aspects of the clean elections act. Reasonable and necessary
expenditures made pursuant to section 16956 are not included in this
subsection.
D.The commission may spend monies in the fund for
the reasonable and necessary expenses to implement the clean elections act but shall not use monies
in the fund to promote the benefits of the clean elections
act.Expenditures made pursuant to subsection C of this section or
in section 16956, subsection A are deemed not to constitute promoting
the benefits of the clean elections act.Expenditures pursuant to
this subsection shall not be included in the limits prescribed in subsection C
of this section.
E.The
commission and any official or employee acting on behalf of the commission may
not:
1.Enter
into a contract with a person or entity for lobbying activities.
2.Spend
monies for any person or entity outside of the commission to lobby.
E.F.The state
treasurer shall administer a citizens clean elections fund from which costs
incurred under this article shall be paid.The auditor general shall
review the monies in, payments into and expenditures from the fund no less
often than every four years. 
G.For the
purposes of this section, "Lobbying" has the same meaning prescribed
IN section 41-1231. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 16-956, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-956.Voter education and enforcement duties
A.The commission shall:
1.Develop a procedure for publishing a document
or section of a document having a space of predefined size for a message chosen
by each candidate. For the document that is delivered before the primary
election, the document shall contain the names of every candidate for every statewide
and legislative district office in that primary election without regard to
whether the candidate is a participating candidate or a nonparticipating
candidate.For the document that is delivered before the general
election, the document shall contain the names of every candidate for every
statewide and legislative district office in that general election without
regard to whether the candidate is a participating candidate or a
nonparticipating candidate. The commission shall deliver one copy of each document
to every household that contains a registered voter.For the
document that is delivered before the primary election, the delivery may be
made over a period of days but shall be sent in time to be delivered to
households before the earliest date for receipt by registered voters of any
requested early ballots for the primary election.The commission may
deliver the second document over a period of days but shall send the second
document in order to be delivered to households before the earliest date for
receipt by registered voters of any requested early ballots for the general
election. The primary election and general election documents published by the
commission shall comply with all of the following:
(a)For any candidate who does not submit a message
pursuant to this paragraph, the document shall include with the candidate's
listing the words "no statement submitted".
(b)The document shall have printed on its cover
the words "citizens clean elections commission voter education guide"
and the words "primary election" or "general election" and
the applicable year. The document shall also contain at or near the bottom of
the document cover in type that is no larger than onehalf the size of
the type used for "citizens clean elections commission voter education
guide" the words "paid for by the citizens clean elections
fund".
(c)In order to prevent voter confusion, the
document shall be easily distinguishable from the publicity pamphlet that is
required to be produced by the secretary of state pursuant to section 19123.
2.Sponsor debates among candidates, in such
manner as determined by the commission.The commission shall require
participating candidates to attend and participate in debates and may specify
by rule penalties for nonparticipation.The commission shall invite
and permit nonparticipating candidates to participate in debates.
3.Prescribe forms for reports, statements,
notices and other documents required by this article.The commission
shall not require a candidate to use a reporting system other than the
reporting system jointly approved by the commission and the office of the
secretary of state.
4.Prepare and publish instructions setting forth
methods of bookkeeping and preservation of records to facilitate compliance
with this article and explaining the duties of persons and committees under
this article.
5.Produce a yearly report describing the
commission's activities and any recommendations for changes of law,
administration or funding amounts and accounting for monies in the fund.
6.Adopt rules to implement the reporting
requirements of section 16958, subsections D and E.
7.Enforce this article, ensure that money from
the fund is placed in candidate campaign accounts or otherwise spent as
specified in this article and not otherwise, monitor reports filed pursuant to
this chapter and financial records of candidates as needed and ensure that
money required by this article to be paid to the fund is deposited in the
fund. The commission shall not take action on any external complaint that is
filed more than ninety days after the postelection report is filed or ninety
days after the completion of the canvass of the election to which the complaint
relates, whichever is later.
B.The commission may subpoena witnesses, compel their
attendance and testimony, administer oaths and affirmations, take evidence and
require by subpoena the production of any books, papers, records or other items
material to the performance of the commission's duties or the exercise of its
powers.
C.The commission may adopt rules to carry out the
purposes of this article and to govern procedures of the commission. Commission rule making is exempt from title 41,
chapter 6, article 3. The commission shall propose and adopt
rules in public meetings, with at least sixty days allowed for interested
parties to comment after the rules are proposed.The commission
shall also file a notice of exempt rule
making and the proposed rule in the format prescribed in section
411022 with the secretary of state's office for publication in the
Arizona administrative register.After consideration of the comments
received in the sixty day comment period, the commission may adopt the rule in
an open meeting. Any rules given final approval in an open meeting shall be
filed in the format prescribed in section 411022 with the secretary of
state's office for publication in the Arizona administrative
register.Any rules adopted by the commission shall only be applied
prospectively from the date the rule was adopted.
D. Rules adopted by the commission are not
effective until January 1 in the year following the adoption of the rule,
except that rules adopted by unanimous vote of the commission may be made
immediately effective and enforceable.
E.If, in the view of the commission, the action
of a particular candidate or committee requires immediate change to a
commission rule, a unanimous vote of the commission is required. Any rule
change made pursuant to this subsection that is enacted with less than a
unanimous vote takes effect for the next election cycle.
F.Based on the results of the elections in any
quadrennial election after 2002, and within six months after such election, the
commission may adopt rules changing the number of qualifying contributions
required for any office from those listed in section 16950, subsection
D, by no more than twenty per cent
PERCENT of the number
applicable for the preceding election. END_STATUTE
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

