







REFERENCE TITLE: independent redistricting commission;
  elected membership








State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2009









Introduced by
Representatives
  Petersen, Townsend, Senator Farnsworth D





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of ARizona; amending article IV, Part 2, section
1, Constitution of Arizona; relating to the independent redistricting
commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Article IV, part 2, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, is proposed to be amended as follows if approved by the voters and on
proclamation of the Governor:
1.Senate; house of representatives;
members; special session on petition of members; congressional and legislative
boundaries; independent redistricting commission; election 
Section 1.(1)A.The senate shall
be composed of one member elected from each of the thirty legislative districts
established pursuant to this section.
B.The
house of representatives shall be composed of two members elected from each of
the thirty legislative districts established pursuant to this section.
(2)C.Upon On
the presentation to the governor of a petition bearing the
signatures of not less than two-thirds of the members of each house, requesting a special
session of the legislature and designating the date of convening, the governor
shall promptly call a special session to assemble on the date specified. At a
special session so called the subjects which may be considered by the
legislature shall not be limited.
(3)D.By February 28 Beginning on the second Monday in January of
each year that ends in one, an independent redistricting commission shall be is established to provide for the
redistricting of congressional and state legislative districts.The
independent redistricting commission shall consist of five members, each of whom shall serve a term of ten years.
The commission members shall be elected at the regular general election held in
each year that ends in zero, in the same manner as otherwise provided by law
for other statewide offices, and shall meet the same eligibility requirements
as prescribed in the constitution as for the office of governor.
No more than two members of the
independent redistricting commission shall be members of the same political
party. Of the first four members appointed, no more than two shall reside in
the same county.Each member shall be a registered Arizona voter who
has been continuously registered with the same political party or registered as
unaffiliated with a political party for three or more years immediately
preceding appointment, who is committed to applying the provisions of this
section in an honest, independent and impartial fashion and to upholding public
confidence in the integrity of the redistricting process. Within the three
years previous to appointment, members shall not have been appointed to, elected
to, or a candidate for any other public office, including precinct committeeman
or committeewoman but not including school board member or officer, and shall
not have served as an officer of a political party, or served as a registered
paid lobbyist or as an officer of a candidate's campaign committee.
(4)The
commission on appellate court appointments shall nominate candidates for
appointment to the independent redistricting commission, except that, if a
politically balanced commission exists whose members are nominated by the
commission on appellate court appointments and whose regular duties relate to
the elective process, the commission on appellate court appointments may
delegate to such existing commission (hereinafter called the commission on appellate
court appointments' designee) the duty of nominating members for the
independent redistricting commission, and all other duties assigned to the
commission on appellate court appointments in this section.
(5)By
January 8 of years ending in one, the commission on appellate court
appointments or its designee shall establish a pool of persons who are willing
to serve on and are qualified for appointment to the independent redistricting
commission. The pool of candidates shall consist of twentyfive nominees,
with ten nominees from each of the two largest political parties in Arizona
based on party registration, and five who are not registered with either of the
two largest political parties in Arizona.
(6)Appointments
to the independent redistricting commission shall be made in the order set
forth below. No later than January 31 of years ending in one, the highest
ranking officer elected by the Arizona house of representatives shall make one
appointment to the independent redistricting commission from the pool of
nominees, followed by one appointment from the pool made in turn by each of the
following: the minority party leader of the Arizona house of representatives,
the highest ranking officer elected by the Arizona senate, and the minority
party leader of the Arizona senate. Each such official shall have a seven-day
period in which to make an appointment. Any official who fails to make an
appointment within the specified time period will forfeit the appointment
privilege.In the event that there are two or more minority parties
within the house or the senate, the leader of the largest minority party by
statewide party registration shall make the appointment.
(7)Any vacancy in the above four independent
redistricting commission positions remaining as of March 1 of a year ending in
one shall be filled from the pool of nominees by the commission on appellate
court appointments or its designee. The appointing body shall strive for
political balance and fairness.
(8)At a
meeting called by the secretary of state, the four independent redistricting
commission members shall select by majority vote from the nomination pool a
fifth member who shall not be registered with any party already represented on
the independent redistricting commission and who shall serve as chair. If the
four commissioners fail to appoint a fifth member within fifteen days, the
commission on appellate court appointments or its designee, striving for
political balance and fairness, shall appoint a fifth member from the
nomination pool, who shall serve as chair.
(9)E.The five
commissioners shall then
select by majority vote one of their members to serve as vice-chair chairperson and one of their members to serve as vice
chairperson.
(10)After
having been served written notice and provided with an opportunity for a
response, a member of the independent redistricting commission may be removed
by the governor, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the senate, for
substantial neglect of duty, gross misconduct in office, or inability to
discharge the duties of office.
(11)F.If a commissioner
or chair does not complete
the term of office for any reason, the commission
on appellate court appointments or its designee shall nominate a pool of three
candidates within the first thirty days after the vacancy occurs vacancy shall be filled as otherwise
PROVIDED by law.If a person is appointed to fill any portion of the term, the
nominees person appointed shall be of the same
political party or status as was the member who vacated the office at the time
of his or her appointment. , and the appointment other than the chair
shall be made by the current holder of the office designated to make the
original appointment.The appointment of a new chair shall be made
by the remaining commissioners.If the appointment of a replacement
commissioner or chair is not made within fourteen days following the
presentation of the nominees, the commission on appellate court appointments or
its designee shall make the appointment, striving for political balance and
fairness.The newly appointed commissioner shall serve out the
remainder of the original term.
(12)G.Three
commissioners, including the chair
chairperson or vicechair vice chairperson, constitute a quorum. Three
or more affirmative votes are required for any official action. Where a quorum
is present, the independent redistricting commission shall conduct business in
meetings open to the public, with 48
forty-eight or more hours
public notice provided.
(13)A
commissioner, during the commissioner's term of office and for three years
thereafter, shall be ineligible for Arizona public office or for registration
as a paid lobbyist.
(14)H.The independent
redistricting commission shall establish congressional and legislative
districts. The commencement of the mapping process for both the congressional
and legislative districts shall be the creation of districts of equal
population in a grid-like pattern across the state. Adjustments to the grid
shall then be made as necessary to accommodate the goals as set forth below:
A.1.Districts shall
comply with the United States Constitution and the United States voting rights
act. ;
B.2.Congressional
districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable, and state
legislative districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable.;
C.3.Districts shall
be geographically compact and contiguous to the extent practicable. ;
D.4.District
boundaries shall respect communities of interest to the extent practicable. ;
E.5.To the extent
practicable, district lines shall use visible geographic features, city, town
and county boundaries, and undivided census tracts. ;
F.6.To the extent
practicable, competitive districts should be favored where to do so would
create no significant detriment to the other goals.
(15)I.Party
registration and voting history data shall be excluded from the initial phase
of the mapping process but may be used to test maps for compliance with the
above goals. The places of residence of incumbents or candidates shall not be
identified or considered.
(16)J.The independent
redistricting commission shall advertise a draft map of congressional districts
and a draft map of legislative districts to the public for comment, which
comment shall be taken for at least thirty days. Either or both bodies of the
legislature may act within this period to make recommendations to the
independent redistricting commission by memorial or by minority report, which
recommendations shall be considered by the independent redistricting
commission. The independent redistricting commission shall then establish final
district boundaries.
(17)K.The provisions
regarding this section are selfexecuting.The independent
redistricting commission shall certify to the secretary of state the
establishment of congressional and legislative districts.
(18)L.Upon On
approval of this amendment, the department of administration or
its successor shall make adequate office space available for the independent
redistricting commission.The state treasurer of
the state shall make $6,000,000 available for the work of the
independent redistricting commission pursuant to the year 2000 census. Unused
monies shall be returned to the state's
state general fund. In
years ending in eight or nine after the year 2001, the department of
administration or its successor shall submit to the legislature a
recommendation for an appropriation for adequate redistricting expenses and
shall make available adequate office space for the operation of the independent
redistricting commission. The legislature shall make the necessary
appropriations by a majority vote.
(19)M. The independent
redistricting commission, with fiscal oversight from the department of
administration or its successor, shall have procurement and contracting
authority and may hire staff and consultants for the purposes of this section,
including legal representation.
(20)N.The independent
redistricting commission shall have standing in legal actions regarding the
redistricting plan and the adequacy of resources provided for the operation of
the independent redistricting commission. The independent redistricting
commission shall have sole authority to determine whether the Arizona attorney
general or counsel hired or selected by the independent redistricting
commission shall represent the people of Arizona in the legal defense of a
redistricting plan.
(21)O.Members of the
independent redistricting commission are eligible for reimbursement of expenses
pursuant to law, and a member's residence is deemed to be the member's post of
duty for purposes of reimbursement of expenses.
(22)P.Employees of the
department of administration or its successor shall not influence or attempt to
influence the district-mapping decisions of the independent redistricting
commission.
(23)Q.Each commissioner's duties
established by this section expire upon
on the appointment of the first member election and qualification of the next
redistricting commission. The independent
redistricting commission shall not meet or incur expenses after the
redistricting plan is completed, except if litigation or any government
approval of the plan is pending, or to revise districts if required by court
decisions or if the number of congressional or legislative districts is
changed. 
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
XXI, Constitution of Arizona.

