







REFERENCE TITLE: education finance; sales tax







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HCR 2050









Introduced by
Representatives
  Friese, Alston, Andrade, Mach, Otondo: Fernandez, Gonzales, Rios, Wheeler





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

enacting and
ordering the submission to the people of a measure relating to education
finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona, the Senate concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the Legislature, the following measure, relating to education finance, is
enacted to become valid as a law if approved by the voters and on proclamation
of the Governor:
AN ACT
amending sections
42-5010 and 42-5155, Arizona Revised Statutes; RELATING to education finance.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 42-5010, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5010.Rates; distribution base
A.The tax imposed by this article is levied and
shall be collected at the following rates:
1.Five percent of the tax base as computed for
the business of every person engaging or continuing in this state in the
following business classifications described in article 2 of this chapter:
(a)Transporting classification.
(b)Utilities classification.
(c)Telecommunications classification.
(d)Pipeline classification.
(e)Private car line classification.
(f)Publication classification.
(g)Job printing classification.
(h)Prime contracting classification.
(i)Amusement classification.
(j)Restaurant classification.
(k)Personal property rental classification.
(l)Retail classification and amounts equal to
retail transaction privilege tax due pursuant to section 425008.01.
2.Five and onehalf percent of the tax base
as computed for the business of every person engaging or continuing in this
state in the transient lodging classification described in section 425070.
3.Three and oneeighth percent of the tax
base as computed for the business of every person engaging or continuing in
this state in the mining classification described in section 425072.
4.Zero percent of the tax base as computed for
the business of every person engaging or continuing in this state in the
commercial lease classification described in section 425069.
B.Except as provided by subsection J of this
section, twenty percent of the tax revenues collected at the rate prescribed by
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section from persons on account of engaging
in business under the business classifications listed in subsection A,
paragraph 1, subdivisions (a) through (h) of this section is designated as
distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
C.Forty percent of the tax revenues collected at
the rate prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section from persons
on account of engaging in business under the business classifications listed in
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivisions (i) through (l) of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
D.Thirtytwo percent of the tax revenues
collected from persons on account of engaging in business under the business
classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
E.Fiftythree and onethird percent
of the tax revenues collected from persons on account of engaging in business
under the business classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 4 of this
section is designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
F.Fifty percent of the tax revenues collected
from persons on account of engaging in business under the business
classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is
designated as distribution base for purposes of section 425029.
G.In addition to the rates prescribed by
subsection A of this section, if approved
by the qualified electors voting at a statewide general election,
an additional rate increment is imposed and shall be collected through beginning
from and after June 30, 2021.The taxpayer shall pay
taxes pursuant to this subsection at the same time and in the same manner as
under subsection A of this section.The department shall separately
account for the revenues collected with respect to the rates imposed pursuant
to this subsection and the state treasurer shall distribute all of those
revenues in the manner prescribed by section 425029, subsection E. The
rates imposed pursuant to this subsection shall not be considered local
revenues for purposes of article IX, section 21, Constitution of Arizona. The
additional tax rate increment is levied at the rate of sixtenths of one per cent percent of the tax base of every person engaging or
continuing in this state in a business classification listed in subsection A,
paragraph 1 of this section. 
H.Any increase in the rate of tax that is imposed
by this chapter and that is enacted by the legislature or by a vote of the
people does not apply with respect to contracts entered into by prime
contractors or pursuant to written bids made by prime contractors on or before
the effective date of the legislation or the date of the election enacting the
increase. To qualify for the exemption under this subsection, the prime
contractor must maintain sufficient documentation, in a manner and form
prescribed by the department, to verify the date of the contract or written
bid.
I.For taxpayers taxable under this chapter other
than prime contractors taxable pursuant to section 425075:
1.Any increase in the rate of tax that is levied
by this article or article 2 of this chapter enacted by the legislature or by a
vote of the people does not apply for a period of one hundred twenty days from
the date of the tax rate increase to the gross proceeds of sales or gross
income from the business of the taxpayer with respect to written contracts
entered into before the effective date of the tax rate increase unless the
taxpayer has entered into a contract that contains a provision that entitles
the taxpayer to recover from the purchaser the amount of the additional tax
levied.
2.The provisions of this subsection apply without
regard to the accounting method used by the taxpayer to report the taxes
imposed under article 2 of this chapter.
3.The provisions of this subsection shall not be
considered in determining the rate of tax imposed under chapter 6, article 3 of
this title.
J.Zero percent of the tax revenues that are
collected at the rate prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section
from persons on account of engaging in business under the business
classification listed in subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (h) of this
section, and that are subject to any distribution required by section 425032.02,
is designated as distribution base for the purposes of section 425029
until the total amount subject to distribution pursuant to section 425032.02
has reached the maximum amount prescribed by section 425032.02,
subsection C.Thereafter, twenty percent of the remaining tax
revenues is designated as distribution base for the purposes of section 425029
as provided by subsection B of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-5155, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-5155.Levy of tax; tax rate; purchaser's liability
A.There is levied and imposed an excise tax on
the storage, use or consumption in this state of tangible personal property
purchased from a retailer or utility business, as a percentage of the sales
price.A manufactured building purchased outside this state and set
up in this state is subject to tax under this section and in this case the
percentage is sixtyfive per cent
percent of the sales
price.
B.The tax imposed by this section applies to any
purchaser which purchased tangible personal property for resale but
subsequently uses or consumes the property.
C.The tax rate shall equal the rate of tax
prescribed by section 425010, subsection A as applied to retailers and
utility businesses according to the respective classification under articles 1
and 2 of this chapter for the same type of transaction or business activity.
D.In addition to the rate prescribed by
subsection C of this section, if approved
by the qualified electors voting at a statewide general election,
an additional rate increment of sixtenths
of one per cent
percent is imposed and
shall be collected through from and after June 30, 2021.
The taxpayer shall pay taxes pursuant to this subsection at the same time and
in the same manner as under subsection C of this section.The
department shall separately account for the revenues collected with respect to
the rate imposed pursuant to this subsection, and the state treasurer shall pay
all of those revenues in the manner prescribed by section 425029,
subsectionE.
E.Every person storing, using or consuming in
this state tangible personal property purchased from a retailer or utility
business is liable for the tax.The person's liability is not
extinguished until the tax has been paid to this state.
F.A receipt from a retailer or utility business
that maintains a place of business in this state or from a retailer or utility
business that is authorized by the department to collect the tax, under such
rules as it may prescribe, and that is for the purposes of this article
regarded as a retailer or utility business maintaining a place of business in
this state, given to the purchaser as provided in section 425161 is
sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability for the tax to which
the receipt refers. END_STATUTE
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this proposition
to the voters at the next general election as provided by article IV, part 1,
section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

