







REFERENCE TITLE: death resolution; Oscar Palmer Austin







State of Arizona
House of Representatives
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






HR 2003









Introduced by
Representative
  Bolding





A RESOLUTION

on the death of Private First Class Oscar Palmer Austin.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Private First Class
Oscar Palmer Austin was killed in the line of duty on February 23, 1969.
Born on January 15,
1948, in Nacogdoches, Texas, Oscar Austin moved to Phoenix, Arizona at an early
age where he attended Booker T. Washington Elementary School and Phoenix Union
High School.
Dedicated to his
country, Oscar Austin enlisted in the United States Marine Corps on April 22,
1968. After completing recruit training with the 3rd Recruit Training
Battalion, Recruit Training Regiment at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San
Diego, California in July of 1968, individual combat training with Company T,
3rd Battalion, 2nd Infantry Training Regiment at the Marine Corps Base in Camp
Pendleton, California in August of 1968 and basic infantry training with
Weapons Company, Basic Infantry Training Battalion, 2nd Infantry Training
Regiment at Camp Pendleton in September of 1968, Oscar Austin was promoted to
Private First Class on October 1, 1968. Later that month, he was transferred
to the Republic of Vietnam where he served as ammunitions man with Company E,
2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division.
On the morning of
February 23, 1969, approximately six and one-half miles west of Da Nang,
Republic of Vietnam, Oscar Austin's observation post was subjected to a fierce
ground attack by a powerful North Vietnamese Army force. Noting that one of
his wounded companions had fallen unconscious, Austin immediately left the
relative safety of his fighting hole and raced across the fire-swept terrain to
the marine's rescue. As he neared, he observed an enemy grenade land nearby
and, without hesitation, leaped between the injured marine and the grenade,
absorbing the painful effects of its detonation. Ignoring his injuries, he
turned to examine the wounded man, and as he did so, he saw a North Vietnamese
Army soldier aiming a weapon at his unconscious companion. With full knowledge
of the probable consequences and thinking only to protect the marine, Private
First Class Oscar Austin threw himself between the marine and the hostile
soldier and, in doing so, was mortally wounded.
Private First Class
Oscar Austin was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his tremendous
heroism and sacrifice. His medals and decorations also include the Purple
Heart, the National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with two
bronze stars and the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal.
Private First Class
Oscar Austin gallantly gave his life for his country, and his resolute courage,
inspiring initiative and selfless devotion to duty upheld the highest
traditions of the Marine Corps and the United States Naval Service.
Therefore
Be it resolved by the House of Representatives of the State of
Arizona:
That the Members of
the House of Representatives sincerely regret the passing of Private First
Class Oscar Palmer Austin and extend posthumous recognition and honor to this
exceptional American for his selfless service and ultimate sacrifice to his
country.

