







REFERENCE TITLE: voter registration deadlines;
  registration method







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1079









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Farley, Hobbs; Representatives Andrade, Clark, Espinoza, Velasquez:
  Senator Contreras





AN ACT

amending sections
16-120 and 16-134, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to qualification and
registration of electors.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-120, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-120.Eligibility to vote
No elector shall vote in an election called pursuant to the
laws of this state unless the elector has been registered to vote as a resident
within the boundaries or the proposed boundaries of the election district for
which the election is being conducted and the registration has been is any one of the following:
1.Mailed to
and received by the county recorder or his the
recorder's designee pursuant to section 16134 prior to before midnight of the twentyninth day
preceding the date of the election or
dated twenty-nine days or more before an election and received by first class
mail within five days after the last day to register to vote in that election.

2.Completed
in person at a county recorder's office before midnight of the fourteenth day
preceding the date of the election and received by the county recorder by 7:00
p.m. on the day of that election.
3.Electronically
generated and transmitted to the department of transportation before midnight
of the fourteenth day preceding the date of the election as shown on the
transmittal confirmation receipt and received by the county recorder by 7:00
p.m. on the day of that election.
4.If
submitted by any means other than as prescribed in paragraph 1, 2 or 3 of this
section, dated twenty-nine days or more before the election and received by the
county recorder by 7:00 p.m. on the day of that election.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 16-134, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-134.Return of registrations made outside office of county
recorder; incomplete or illegible forms
A.A county recorder shall authorize persons to
accept registration forms, shall designate places for receipt of registration
forms and shall designate additional locations for distribution of voter
registration forms. Public assistance agencies and disabilities agencies as
defined in section 16140 shall return or mail completed voter
registrations to the county recorder of the county in which the applicant
resides within five days after receipt of those registrations.
B.If the information on the registration form is
incomplete or illegible and the county recorder is not able to process the
registration form, the county recorder shall notify the applicant within ten
business days of receipt of the registration form, shall specify the missing or
illegible information and, if the missing or illegible information includes any
of the information prescribed by section 16121.01, subsection A, shall
state that the registration cannot be completed until the information is
supplied. If the missing or illegible information is supplied before 7:00 p.m.
on election day, that person is deemed to have been registered on the date the
registration was first received.
C.In the case of registration by mail, a voter
registration is valid for an election if it complies with either of the
following:
1.The form is postmarked twentynine days or
more before an election and is received by the county recorder by 7:00 p.m. on
the day of that election.
2.The registration is dated twentynine days
or more before an election and is received by the county recorder by first
class mail within five days after the last day to register to vote in that
election.
D.In the
case of registrations that are electronically generated and transmitted to the
department of transportation, a voter registration is valid for an election if
it is transmitted to the department of transportation before midnight of the
fourteenth day preceding the date of the election as shown on the transmittal
confirmation receipt and is received by the county recorder by 7:00 p.m. on the
day of that election. The department of transportation and the secretary of
state shall transmit all electronically generated voter registrations to the
appropriate county recorder within five days after receipt.
E.All
registrations completed outside the county recorder's office by any means or at
any locations other than as prescribed in subsections c and d of this section
are valid for an election if they are dated twenty-nine days or more before the
election and are received by the county recorder by 7:00 p.m. On the day of
that election.
D.F.The date of
registration entered for registration forms that are received by the county
recorder from persons, groups or agencies that are not authorized to accept
registrations pursuant to subsection A of this section and that do not bear a
legible postmark date or an otherwise reliable date shall be the date that
those forms are received by the county recorder.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fifty-third legislature, first regular session.

