



PREFILED JAN 04 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: ASRS; board delegation; benefit
  determinations







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1037









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending section
38714, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona state
retirement system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-714, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-714.Powers and duties of ASRS and board
A.ASRS shall have the powers and privileges of a
corporation, shall have an official seal and shall transact all business in the
name "Arizona state retirement system", and in that name may sue and
be sued.
B.The board is responsible for supervising the
administration of this article by the director of ASRS.
C.The board is responsible for the performance of
fiduciary duties and other responsibilities required to preserve and protect
the retirement trust fund established by section 38712.
D.The board shall not advocate for or against
legislation providing for benefit modifications, except that the board shall
provide technical and administrative information regarding the impact of
benefit modification legislation.
E.The board may:
1.Determine the rights, benefits or obligations of
any person under this article and afford any person dissatisfied with a
determination a hearing on the determination. The board may delegate the duty and authority to act on
the board's behalf to a committee of the board for the purposes of this
paragraph and title 41, chapter 6, article 10 relating to any decision made
under this paragraph by that committee of the board.
2.Determine the amount, manner and time of payment
of any benefits under this article.
3.Recommend amendments to this article and articles
2.1 and 7 of this chapter that are required for efficient and effective
administration.
4.Adopt, amend or repeal rules for the
administration of the plan, this article and articles 2.1 and 7 of this
chapter.
F.Beginning June 30, 2016, the board shall
determine which of the generally accepted actuarial cost methods shall be used
in the annual actuarial valuation of the plan.
G.The board shall submit to the governor and
legislature for each fiscal year no later than eight months after the close of
the fiscal year a report of its operations and the operations of
ASRS.The report shall follow generally accepted accounting principles
and generally accepted financial reporting standards and shall include:
1.A report on an actuarial valuation of ASRS assets
and liabilities.
2.Any other statistical and financial data that may
be necessary for the proper understanding of the financial condition of ASRS
and the results of board operations.
3.On request of the governor or the legislature, a
list of investments owned. This list shall be provided in electronic format.
H.The board shall:
1.Prepare and
publish a synopsis of the annual report for the information of ASRS members.
2.Contract for a study of the mortality,
disability, service and other experiences of the members and employers
participating in ASRS.The study shall be conducted for fiscal year
19901991 and for at least every fifth fiscal year
thereafter.A report of the study shall be completed within eight
months of the close of the applicable fiscal year and shall be submitted to the
governor and the legislature.
3.Conduct an annual actuarial valuation of ASRS
assets and liabilities.
I.The auditor general may make an annual audit of
ASRS and transmit the results to the governor and the legislature. END_STATUTE

