



PREFILED JAN 07 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: crimes; culpable mental state;
  requirement







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1057









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending title 9,
chapter 4, article 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 9500.38;
amending section 13202, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to culpable
mental states.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 9, chapter 4, article 8,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 9-500.38, to read:
START_STATUTE9-500.38.Culpable mental state; misdemeanor ordinances; exemptions
A.If a city
or town classifies an offense as a misdemeanor and does not expressly prescribe
a culpable mental state that is sufficient for commission of the offense, the
culpable mental state that is required for the commission of the offense is
intentional, except that if the offense is a misdemeanor offense that is
related to a drug offense the culpable mental state is knowingly. An ordinance
defining a strict liability offense shall expressly prescribe that it is a
strict liability offense.
B.This
section does not apply to a city or town ordinance that involves:
1.A traffic
violation.
2.A
building code violation.
3.A food or
health and safety code violation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-202, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-202.Construction of statutes with respect to culpability;
exemptions
A.If a statute defining an offense prescribes a
culpable mental state that is sufficient for commission of the offense without
distinguishing among the elements of such offense, the prescribed mental state
shall apply to each such element unless a contrary legislative purpose plainly
appears.
B.If a
statute defining an offense does not expressly prescribe a culpable mental
state that is sufficient for commission of the offense, the culpable mental
state that is required for the commission of the offense is intentional, except
that if the statute defining an offense is listed in chapter 34 of this title,
the culpable mental state that is required for the commission of the offense is
knowingly. This section does not apply to any of the following:
1.A moving
traffic violation included in title 28.
2.A
violation involving public health and safety included in title36.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection B of this section, if a statute defining an offense expressly prescribes that it is a strict
liability offense and does not expressly prescribe a culpable
mental state that is sufficient for commission of the offense, no culpable
mental state is required for the commission of such
the offense, and the
offense is one of strict liability unless the proscribed conduct necessarily
involves a culpable mental state.If the offense is one of strict
liability, proof of a culpable mental state will also suffice to establish
criminal responsibility.
C.D.If a statute
provides that criminal negligence suffices to establish an element of an
offense, that element also is established if a person acts intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly.If acting recklessly suffices to establish an
element, that element also is established if a person acts intentionally or
knowingly.If acting knowingly suffices to establish an element,
that element is also established if a person acts intentionally. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

