



PREFILED DEC 15 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: water and energy improvement districts







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1016









Introduced by
Senators
  Sherwood: Quezada





AN ACT

amending section
48-572, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 48, chapter 4, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding article 7; relating to special taxing districts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
48-572, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-572.Purposes for which public improvements may be undertaken;
powers incidental to public improvements
A.When If
the public interest or convenience requires, the governing body of a
municipality may:
1.Order the whole or
any portion, either in length or width, of one or more of the streets of the
municipality graded or regraded, paved or repaved, or otherwise improved or
reimproved.
2.Order the
construction, reconstruction or repair of any tunnel, subway, viaduct or
conduit in, on, under or over any street, or land of the municipality or any
land on, under or over which the municipality may have an easement or
right-of-way therefor.
3.Order the
construction or reconstruction of sidewalks, crosswalks, curbs, gutters,
culverts, bridges, tunnels, siphons, manholes, steps, parkings and parkways and
also pipes, hydrants and appliances for fire protection.
4.Order construction,
reconstruction or acquisition of sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, pipelines
and channels for sanitary and drainage purposes, or either or both thereof,
with outlets, cesspools, manholes, catch basins, flush tanks, septic tanks,
connecting sewers, ditches, drains, conduits, channels and other appurtenances
in, under, over or through any street, or any land of the municipality or any
right-of-way granted or obtained for such purpose, either within or without the
limits of the municipality.
5.Order construction, reconstruction
or acquisition of waterworks, ditches, canals, channels, conduits, pipelines
and siphons, together with the necessary or usual appurtenances for carrying
storm water or water from irrigation ditches, watercourses, streams or springs
into, through or out of the municipality, in, under, over or through any
street, or any land of the municipality or any right-of-way granted or obtained
for such purpose, either within or without the limits of the municipality.
6.Order construction,
reconstruction or acquisition of breakwater levees or walls, docks, wharves,
marinas, boat harbors and related facilities.
7.Order construction,
reconstruction or acquisition of lighting plants and poles, wires, conduits,
lamps, standards and other appliances for the purpose of lighting and
beautifying the streets improved.
8.Order the whole or
any portion of any offstreet parking area and entrances thereto of the
municipality graded or regraded, paved or repaved, or otherwise improved or
reimproved, order lighting plants and poles, wires, conduits, lamps, standards,
and other appliances for the purpose of lighting, landscaping and beautifying
the streets or off-street parking areas and entrances thereto to be improved
and order construction on such land of parking structures that may have any
portion at, above or below grade.If in connection with any lot or
parcel within a proposed assessment district adequate off-street parking
facilities have been provided, such lot or parcel shall be excluded from the
assessment district and shall not be assessed for such improvements if within
the time and in the manner provided in section 48579, subsection C the
owner or owners file a written objection to the extent of the assessment
district.For the purposes
of this paragraph in cities having a zoning code or ordinance, unless the
off-street parking facilities provided meet or exceed the requirements of the
zoning code or ordinance for a lot or parcel of that size in that zone, then
such offstreet parking facilities shall not be deemed
adequate.In cities not having a zoning code or ordinance, the
facilities provided shall not be deemed adequate unless parking space for one
motor vehicle is provided for each three hundred square feet of floor space in
the building served by such offstreet parking site.If any
lot or parcel within a proposed assessment district organized for improvements
provided for in this paragraph is zoned and used exclusively for single family
residential purposes, such lot or parcel shall be excluded from the assessment
district and shall not be assessed for such improvements if within the time and
in the manner provided in section 48579, subsection C the owner or
owners file a written objection to the extent of the assessment district.
9.Order the
construction or reconstruction of any work incidental to or connected with the
improvements set forth in this subsection.
10.Pursuant to
section 48622, and notwithstanding any other law, construct, acquire or
improve a wastewater treatment facility, drinking waterfacility or
nonpoint source project with monies borrowed from or financial assistance
including forgivable principal provided by the water infrastructure finance
authority of Arizona.
11.Pursuant to article 7 of this chapter,
provide for the use of energy or water efficient systems or devices.
B.In addition to all
powers specifically granted by or reasonably inferred under the provisions of this article, cities and towns,
acting through their governing bodies, may:
1.Join with other cities
or towns or any improvement district or sanitary district or the state, or any
of its departments or agencies, the federal government or any of its
departments, agencies or instrumentalities, in the construction, operation or
maintenance of improvements authorized by this section.
2.Join with any other
city, town, improvement district or sanitary district in improving streets
running upon on or along the boundaries of the city or town
and levy assessments or issue bonds for the proportionate part of the city or
town of the cost of the improvement.
3.Accept from the
state, or federal government, or any agency, department or instrumentality of
either, grants for or in aid of the construction of any of the improvements
provided by this article, and enter into contracts with the state, the federal
government, or any agency, department or instrumentality of either or both, for
the construction or supervision of construction by the state, the federal
government or any agency, department or instrumentality of either or both of
any such improvements, in accordance with the plans, specifications, rules and
regulations of the state, the federal government, or any agency, department or
instrumentality of either or both, but reserving to the city or town the right to
assess against the property benefited by the improvement, and located within
the city or town, that portion of the cost of the improvement which does not
qualify for aid under the state or federal grant. END_STATUTE
Sec. 2.Title 48,
chapter 4, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 7, to read:
ARTICLE
7.WATER AND ENERGY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
START_STATUTE48-751.Definitions 
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."District" means a water and energy
improvement district that is established and designated under this article.
2."Governing body" means the body that by law
is constituted as the legislative department of the local government.
3."Local government" means a city, town or
county.
4."Program" means a program that is
established under this article.
5."Qualified improvement" means an improvement
that is affixed to qualified real property and that is intended to make the
property more energy or water efficient or independent, including a product,
device or interacting group of products or devices on the customer's side of a
utility meter that use energy technology to generate electricity, provide
thermal energy or regulate temperature.
6."Qualified project" means the installation
or modification of a qualified improvement.
7."Qualified real property" means privately
owned commercial or industrial real property or residential real property with
five or more dwelling units. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-752.Establishment of program; financing
A.The governing body of a local government may determine
that it is convenient and advantageous to establish a program under this
article.
B.An authorized official of the local government that
establishes a program may enter into a written contract with a record owner of
qualified real property in a district that is designated under this article to
impose an assessment to repay the owner's financing of a qualified project on
the owner's property. A third party or, if authorized by the program, the
local government may provide the financing to be repaid through assessments.
C.If the program provides for third-party financing, the
authorized official of the local government who enters into a written contract
with a property owner under subsection B of this section must also enter into a
written contract with the party that provides the financing for a qualified
project under the program in order to service the debt through assessments.
D.If the program provides for local government
financing, the written contract prescribed by subsection B of this section must
be a contract to finance the qualified project through assessments.
E.The financing for which assessments are imposed may
include any of the following:
1.The cost of materials and labor necessary for the
installation or modification of a qualified improvement.
2.Permit fees.
3.Inspection fees.
4.Lender fees.
5.Program application and administrative fees.
6.Project development and engineering fees.
7.Third-party review fees, including fees for
verification reviews, prescribed by section 48-757.
8.Any other fees or costs that may be incurred by the
property owner incident to the installation, modification or improvement on a
specific or pro rata basis, as determined by the local government. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-753.Designation of district
A.The governing body of a local government may determine
that it is convenient and advantageous to designate an area within the local
government's jurisdiction as a district within which authorized local
government officials and record owners of qualified real property may enter
into written contracts to impose assessments to repay the financing by owners
of qualified projects on the owners' property and, if authorized by the local
government program, finance the qualified project. Only those record owners of
qualified real property that is located within the jurisdictional boundaries of
the local government for which the program has been formed who have entered
into voluntary written agreements pursuant to this article may be included
within the district and are subject to an assessment under this article.
B.An area that is designated as a district by the
governing body of a local government under this section shall be composed of
any qualified real property that is located within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the local government and that from time to time is subject to a
voluntary written agreement between the district and the record owner of the
qualified real property pursuant to this article. The district may include
noncontiguous real property if it is wholly within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the local government. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-754.Procedure for establishment of program; amendment of
program
A.To establish a program under this article, the
governing body of a local government shall take the following actions in the
following order:
1.Adopt a resolution of intent that includes all of the
following:
(a)A finding that, if appropriate,
financing qualified projects through contractual assessments is a valid public
purpose.
(b)A statement that the local
government intends to make contractual assessments to repay financing for
qualified projects available to property owners.
(c)A description of the types of
qualified projects that may be subject to contractual assessments.
(d)A description of the boundaries of
the district.
(e)A description of any proposed
arrangements for third-party financing to be available or any local government
financing to be provided for qualified projects.
(f)A description of local government
debt servicing procedures if third-party financing will be provided and if
assessments will be collected to service a third-party debt.
(g)A reference to the report on the
proposed program that is prepared according to section 48-755 and a statement
that identifies the location where the report is available for public
inspection.
(h)A statement of the time and place for
a public hearing on the proposed program.
(i)A statement that identifies the
appropriate local official and the appropriate assessor for the purposes of
consultation regarding collecting the proposed contractual assessments by way
of property taxes that are imposed on the assessed property.
2.Hold a public hearing at which the public may comment
on the proposed program, including the report that is required by section
48-755.
3.Adopt a resolution that establishes the program and
the terms of the program, including each item that is included in the report
under section 48-755 and a description of each aspect of the program that may
be amended only after another public hearing is held.The resolution
may incorporate the report or the amended version of the report, as
appropriate, by reference.
B.The governing body of a local government may amend a
program by resolution.
C.On proper formation of a district, a local government
may:
1.Hire and set the compensation of a program
administrator and program staff.
2.Contract for professional services that are necessary
to administer a program.
3.Impose fees to offset the costs of administering a
program. The fees that are authorized by this paragraph may be assessed as:
(a)A program application fee that the
property owner who requests to participate in the program pays.
(b)A component of the interest rate on
the assessment in the written contract between the local government and the
property owner.
(c)A combination of subdivisions (a) and (b) of this paragraph. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-755.Report regarding assessment; demonstration of financial
ability
A.The report for a proposed program required by section 48-754
must include:
1.A map that shows the boundaries of the proposed
district.
2.A form contract between the local government and the
property owner that specifies the terms of both of the following:
(a)The assessment under the program.
(b)The financing that a third party or
the local government, as appropriate, provides.
3.If the proposed program provides for third-party
financing, a form contract between the local government and the third party
regarding the servicing of the debt through assessments.
4.A description of types of qualified projects that are
eligible for contractual assessments.
5.A statement that identifies a local government
official who is authorized to enter into written contracts on behalf of the
local government.
6.A plan for ensuring sufficient capital for third-party
financing and, if appropriate, raising capital for local government financing
for qualified projects.
7.If bonds will be issued to provide capital to finance
qualified projects as part of the program as provided by section 48-764, all of
the following:
(a)A maximum aggregate annual dollar
amount for financing through contractual assessments to be provided by the
local government under the program.
(b)A method for ranking requests from
property owners for financing through contractual assessments in priority order
if requests appear likely to exceed the authorization amount. 
(c)A method for determining the
interest rate and period during which contracting owners would pay an
assessment and the maximum amount of an assessment.
8.A method for ensuring that the period of the
contractual assessment does not exceed the useful life of the qualified project
that is the basis for the assessment.
9.A description of the application process and
eligibility requirements for financing qualified projects to be repaid through
contractual assessments under the program.
10.A method as prescribed by subsection B
of this section for ensuring that property owners who request to participate in
the program demonstrate the financial ability to fulfill financial obligations
to be repaid through contractual assessments.
11.A statement that explains the manner
in which property will be assessed and assessments will be collected.
12.A statement that explains the lender
notice requirement provided by section 48-756.
13.A statement that explains the review
requirement provided by section 48-757.
14.A description of marketing and
participant education services to be provided for the program.
15.A description of quality assurance and
antifraud measures to be instituted for the program.
16.The procedures for collecting the
proposed contractual assessments.
B.The method for ensuring a demonstration of financial
ability under subsection A of this section must be based on appropriate
underwriting factors, including:
1.Providing for verification of all of the following:
(a)That the property owner who
requests to participate under the program is all of the following:
(i)The legal owner of the qualified
real property to be benefited.
(ii)Current on mortgage and property
tax payments.
(iii)Not insolvent or in bankruptcy
proceedings.
(b)That the title of the qualified
real property to be benefited is not in dispute.
2.Requiring an appropriate ratio of the amount of the
assessment to the assessed value of the property.
C.The local government shall make the report available
for public inspection at both of the following:
1.The local government's website.
2.The office of the official who is designated to enter
into written contracts on behalf of the local government under the program. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-756.Notice to mortgage holder required for participation
Before a local government may enter into a written contract with a
record owner of qualified real property to impose an assessment to repay the
financing of a qualified project under this article, both of the following must
occur:
1.The holder of any mortgage or deed of trust on the
property must be given written notice of the owner's intention to participate
in a program under this article on or before the thirtieth day before the date
the written contract for assessment between the owner and the local government is
executed.
2.A written consent from the holder of the mortgage or
deed of trust on the property must be obtained. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-757.Review required
A.A program that is established under this article must
require a review of water or energy baseline conditions and a review of the
projected water or energy savings for each proposed qualified project.
B.After a qualified project is completed, the local government
shall obtain verification that the qualified project was properly completed and
is operating as intended.
C.An independent third party shall conduct the baseline
water or energy review or verification review under this section. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-758.Direct acquisition by owner
The proposed arrangements for financing a qualified project may
authorize the property owner to purchase directly the related equipment and
materials for the installation or modification of a qualified improvement and
contract directly, including through lease, power purchase agreement or other
service contract, for the installation or modification of a qualified
improvement. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-759.Recording of notice of contractual assessment required
A.A local government that authorizes financing through
contractual assessments under this article shall record a written notice of
each contractual assessment in the real property records of the county in which
the property is located.
B.The notice prescribed by this section must contain all
of the following:
1.The amount of the assessment.
2.The legal description of the property.
3.The name of each property owner.
4.A reference to the statutory assessment lien provided
under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-760.Exercise of powers
The governing body of a local government that establishes a program
as prescribed by section 48-754 may exercise the powers that are granted under
this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-761.Authorized assessments
A.An assessment under this article may be imposed to
repay the financing of qualified projects on qualified real property that is
located in a district designated under this article.
B.An assessment under this article may not be imposed to
repay the financing of:
1.Facilities for undeveloped lots or lots that are
undergoing development at the time of the assessment.
2.The purchase or installation of products or devices
that are not permanently affixed to real property.
C.An assessment may be imposed under this article only
if there is a written contract regarding the assessment with the record owner
of the qualified real property to be assessed. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-762.Lien; enforcement; delinquency
A.A contractual assessment under this article and any
interest or penalties on the assessment:
1.Is a first and prior lien against the real property on
which the assessment is imposed from the date on which the notice of
contractual assessment is recorded as provided by section 48-759 and until the
assessment, interest or penalty is paid.
2.Has the same priority status as a lien for any other
ad valorem tax.
B.The lien that arises pursuant to this section runs
with the land, and that portion of the assessment under the assessment contract
that has not yet become due is not eliminated by foreclosure of a property tax
lien.
C.The assessment lien may be enforced by the local
government in the same manner that a property tax lien against real property
may be enforced by the local government.
D.Delinquent installments of the assessments incur
interest and penalties in the same manner as delinquent property taxes.
E.A local government may recover costs and expenses,
including attorney fees, in a suit to collect a delinquent installment of an
assessment in the same manner as in a suit to collect a delinquent property
tax. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-763.Collection of assessments
The governing body of a local government may contract with the
governing body of another jurisdiction or district, including the county
assessor of the county in which the district is to be located, to perform the
duties of the local government relating to the collection of assessments that
the local government imposes under this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-764.Bonds or notes; security; public purpose
A.A local government may issue bonds or notes to finance
qualified projects through contractual assessments under this article.
B.Bonds or notes that are issued under this section may
not be general obligations of the local government.The bonds or
notes must be secured by one or more of the following as provided by the
governing body of the local government in the resolution or ordinance that
approves the bonds or notes:
1.Payments of contractual assessments on benefited
property in one or more specified districts designated under this article.
2.Reserves that the local government establishes from
grants, bonds or net proceeds or other lawfully available funds.
3.Municipal bond insurance, lines of credit, public or
private guaranties, standby bond purchase agreements, collateral assignments,
mortgages or any other available means of providing credit support or
liquidity.
4.Any other funds that are lawfully available for
purposes that are consistent with this article.
C.A local government pledge of assessments, funds or
contractual rights in connection with the issuance of bonds or notes by the
local government under this article is a first lien on the assessments, funds
or contractual rights that are pledged in favor of the person to whom the
pledge is given, without further action by the local government. The lien is
valid and binding against any other person, with or without notice.
D.Bonds or notes that are issued under this article
further an essential public and governmental purpose, including:
1.Improvement of the reliability of the state electrical
system.
2.Reduction of energy costs.
3.Economic stimulation and development.
4.Enhancement of property values.
5.Enhancement of employment opportunities.
6.Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-765.Joint implementation
A.Any combination of local governments may agree to
jointly implement or administer a program under this article.
B.If two or more local governments implement a program
jointly, a single public hearing held jointly by the cooperating local
governments is sufficient to satisfy the requirement of section 48-754,
subsection A, paragraph 2.
C.One or more local governments may contract with a
third party, including another local government, to administer a program. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE48-766.Prohibited acts
A local government that establishes a district under this article
may not:
1.Make the issuance of a permit, license or other
authorization from the local government to a person who owns property in the
district contingent on the person entering into a written contract to repay the
financing of a qualified project through contractual assessments under this
article.
2.Otherwise compel a person who owns property in the
district to enter into a written contract to repay the financing of a qualified
project through contractual assessments under this article. END_STATUTE
Sec. 3.Legislative intent
The legislature finds, determines
and declares that:
1.The development and
creation of new jobs and opportunities within the energy and construction
industries of this state are critically important to the growth of the economy
in this state in the twenty-first century.
2.The installation of
energy efficiency upgrades in homes and buildings within this state will
continue to play a central and critical role in the future of this state and of
the nation as a whole and will advance the security, economic well-being and
public and environmental health of this state, as well as contribute to the
energy independence of our nation.
3.The development,
production and efficient use of renewable energy will continue to play a
central and critical role in the future of this state and of the nation as a
whole and will advance the security, economic wellbeing and public and
environmental health of this state, as well as contribute to the energy
independence of our nation.
4.The conservation and
efficient use of water resources likewise play a central and critical role in
the future of this state and its individual cities and counties and serve to
advance the security, economic well-being and public and environmental health
of this state.
5.The inclusion of energy efficiency and renewable
energy production projects and water conservation improvements and water
resource management improvements for use in improvement districts, and the
powers conferred under title 48, chapter 4, article 7, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act, as well as the expenditures of public monies
made pursuant to title 48, chapter 4, article 7, Arizona Revised Statutes, as
added by this act, serve a valid public purpose, and that the enactment of this
act is expressly declared to be in the public interest.

