



PREFILED JAN 05 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: county attorney; powers and duties







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1047









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

Amending section
11-532, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the county attorney.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-532, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-532.Powers and duties
A.The county attorney is the public prosecutor of
the county and shall:
1.Attend the superior and other courts within the
county and conduct, on behalf of the state, all prosecutions for public
offenses.
2.Institute proceedings before magistrates for the
arrest of persons charged with or reasonably suspected of public offenses when
the county attorney has information that the offenses have been committed.
3.When
If not engaged in
criminal proceedings in the superior court, attend upon on
the magistrates in cases of arrest when if
required by them, and attend before and give advice to the grand
jury.
4.Draw indictments and informations, defend actions
brought against the county and prosecute actions to recover recognizances
forfeited in courts of record and actions for recovery of debts, fines,
penalties and forfeitures accruing to the state or county.
5.Deliver receipts for monies or property received
in the county attorney's official capacity and file duplicate receipts with the
clerk of the board.
6.On the first Monday of January, April, July and
October in each year, file with the board of supervisors an account, verified
by oath, of all monies received in the county attorney's official capacity during
the preceding three months, and at the same time pay it to the county
treasurer.
7.When required, give a written opinion to county
officers on matters relating to the duties of their offices.
8.Keep a register of official business, and enter therein in the register every action prosecuted,
criminal or civil, and of the proceedings therein of the
action.
9.Act as the legal advisor to the board of
supervisors, attend its meetings and oppose claims against the county which that the county attorney deems unjust or
illegal.
10.Act as attorney for school districts except as
provided in section 15343, or except in any lawsuits involving a
conflict of interest with other county offices at which time the attorney
general may represent the school district.
11.Act as attorney for the community college
district except as provided in section 15-1448 or except in any lawsuits
involving a conflict of interest with other county offices, at which time the
attorney general may represent the community college district.
12.Defend all locally valued and assessed property
tax appeals as provided in section 4216208.
B.Upon On
receipt of an appellant's brief in a criminal appeal, the county
attorney shall furnish the attorney general with a true statement of the facts
in the case, together with the available authorities and citations that are
responsive to the assignments or specifications of error.
C.The county attorney may represent a school
district governing board member against whom an action is brought in the board
member's individual capacity until such
time as it is established as a matter of law that the alleged
activity or events which that form the basis of the
complaint were not performed, or not directed to be performed, within the scope
or course of the member's duties.
D.Notwithstanding article 12 of this chapter, in
connection with the investigation or prosecution of any matter involving the
death of a person, the county attorney may request that the medical examiner,
for the county in which the prosecution will take place, conduct the medical
examination.
E.The county attorney may provide civil legal
services to another county or other political subdivision of this state or an
officer, employee or agency of a political subdivision of this state at the request of that county's or political
subdivision's elected or appointed general counsel or pursuant to
an intergovernmental agreement entered into by the county and the other
political subdivision of this state
as provided in chapter 7, article 3 of this title at the request of the county
attorney. Any intergovernmental agreement shall state any payment to be
rendered for the services and the scope of the representation. The county
attorney may also obtain civil legal services for the county or for an officer,
employee or agency of the county, from the elected or appointed attorney general counsel of another county or other political
subdivision of this state by request or
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement.END_STATUTE

