



PREFILED DEC 29 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: voter identification; proof of
  citizenship







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1034









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending sections
16-152, 16-166 and 16-579, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to voter
identification.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Subject
to the requirements of article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 16-152, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-152.Registration form
A.The form used for the
registration of electors shall contain:
1.The date the
registrant signed the form.
2.The registrant's
given name, middle name, if any, and surname.
3.The complete address
of the registrant's actual place of residence, including street name and
number, apartment or space number, city or town and zip code, or such
description of the location of the residence that it can be readily ascertained
or identified.
4.The registrant's
complete mailing address, if different from the residence address, including
post office address, city or town, zip code or other designation used by the
registrant for receiving mail. The form shall also include a line for the
registrant's email address (optional to registrant).
5.The registrant's
party preference.The two largest political parties that are
entitled to continued representation on the ballot shall be listed on the form
in the order determined by calculating which party has the highest number of
registered voters at the close of registration for the most recent general
election for governor, then the second highest.The form shall allow
the registrant to circle, check or otherwise mark the party preference and
shall include a blank line for other party preference options.
6.The registrant's
telephone number, unless unlisted.
7.The registrant's
state or country of birth.
8.The registrant's date
of birth.
9.The registrant's
occupation.
10.The registrant's
Indian census number (optional to registrant).
11.The registrant's
father's name or mother's maiden name.
12.One of the
following identifiers for each registrant:
(a)The Arizona driver
license number of the registrant or nonoperating identification license number
of the registrant that is issued pursuant to section 283165.
(b)If the registrant
does not have an Arizona driver license or nonoperating identification license,
the last four digits of the registrant's social security number.
(c)If the registrant
does not have an Arizona driver license or nonoperating identification license
or a social security number and the registrant attests to that, a unique
identifying number consisting of the registrant's unique identification number
to be assigned by the secretary of state in the statewide electronic voter
registration database.
13.A statement as to
whether or not the registrant is currently registered in another state, county
or precinct, and if so, the name, address, county and state of previous
registration.
14.The question to the
registrant "Are you a citizen of the United States of America?",
appropriate boxes for the registrant to check "yes" or "no"
and a statement instructing the registrant not to complete the form if the
registrant checked "no".
15.The question to
the registrant "Will you be eighteen years of age on or before election
day?", appropriate boxes for the registrant to check "yes" or
"no" and a statement instructing the registrant not to complete the
form if the registrant checked "no".
16.A statement that
the registrant has not been convicted of treason or a felony, or if so, that
the registrant's civil rights have been restored.
17.A statement that
the registrant is a resident of this state and of the county in which the
registrant is registering.
18.A statement that
executing a false registration is a class 6 felony.
19.The signature of
the registrant.
20.If the registrant
is unable to sign the form, a statement that the affidavit was completed
according to the registrant's direction.
21.A statement that
if an applicant declines to register to vote, the fact that the applicant has
declined to register will remain confidential and will be used only for voter
registration purposes.
22.A statement that
if an applicant does register to vote, the office at which the applicant
submits a voter registration application will remain confidential and will be
used only for voter registration purposes.
23.A
statement that the applicant shall submit evidence of United States citizenship
with the application and that the registrar shall reject the application if no
evidence of citizenship is attached.
B.A duplicate voter
receipt shall be provided with the form that provides space for the name,
street address and city of residence of the applicant, party preference and the
date of signing.The voter receipt is evidence of valid registration
for the purpose of casting a provisional ballot as prescribed in section 16584,
subsection B.
C.The state voter
registration form shall be printed in a form prescribed by the secretary of
state.
D.The county recorder
may establish procedures to verify whether a registrant has successfully
petitioned the court for an injunction against harassment pursuant to section
121809 or an order of protection pursuant to section 133602 and,
if verified, to protect the registrant's residence address, telephone number or
voting precinct number, if appropriate, from public disclosure.
E.Subsection A of this
section does not apply to registrations received from the department of
transportation pursuant to section 16112. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Subject to the requirements of article IV, part 1, section1,
Constitution of Arizona, section 16-166, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended
to read:
START_STATUTE16-166.Verification of registration
A.Except for the
mailing of sample ballots, a county recorder who mails an item to any elector
shall send the mailing by nonforwardable first class mail marked with the
statement required by the postmaster to receive an address correction
notification. If the item is returned undelivered, the county recorder shall
send a followup notice to that elector within three weeks of receipt of
the returned notice. The county recorder shall send the followup notice
to the address that appears in the general county register or to the forwarding
address provided by the United States postal service. The followup
notice shall include a registration form and the information prescribed by
section 16131, subsection C and shall state that if the elector does not
complete and return a new registration form with current information to the
county recorder within thirtyfive days, the elector's registration
status shall be changed from active to inactive.
B.If the elector
provides the county recorder with a new registration form, the county recorder
shall change the general register to reflect the changes indicated on the new
registration. If the elector indicates a new residence address outside that
county, the county recorder shall forward the voter registration form to the county
recorder of the county in which the elector's address is located. If the
elector provides a new residence address that is located outside this state,
the county recorder shall cancel the elector's registration.
C.The county recorder
shall maintain on the inactive voter list the names of electors who have been
removed from the general register pursuant to subsection A or E of this section
for a period of four years or through the date of the second general election
for federal office following the date of the notice from the county recorder
that is sent pursuant to subsection E of this section.
D.On notice that a
government agency has changed the name of any street, route number, post office
box number or other address designation, the county recorder shall revise the
registration records and shall send a new verification of registration notice
to the electors whose records were changed.
E.The county recorder
on or before May 1 of each year preceding a state primary and general election
or more frequently as the recorder deems necessary may use the change of
address information supplied by the postal service through its licensees to
identify registrants whose addresses may have changed. If it appears from
information provided by the postal service that a registrant has moved to a
different residence address in the same county, the county recorder shall
change the registration records to reflect the new address and shall send the
registrant a notice of the change by forwardable mail and a postage prepaid
preaddressed return form by which the registrant may verify or correct the
registration information. If the registrant fails to return the form
postmarked not later than thirty-five days after the mailing of the notice, the
elector's registration status shall be changed from active to
inactive.If the notice sent by the recorder is not returned, the
registrant may be required to provide affirmation or confirmation of the
registrant's address in order to vote. If the registrant does not vote in an
election during the period after the date of the notice from the recorder
through the date of the second general election for federal office following
the date of that notice, the registrant's name shall be removed from the list
of inactive voters. If the registrant has changed residence to a new county,
the county recorder shall provide information on how the registrant can
continue to be eligible to vote.
F.The
county recorder shall reject any application for registration that is not
accompanied by satisfactory evidence of United States citizenship.
Satisfactory evidence of citizenship shall include any of the following: 
1.The
number of the applicant's driver license or nonoperating identification license
issued after October 1, 1996 by the department of transportation or the
equivalent governmental agency of another state within the United States if the
agency indicates on the applicant's driver license or nonoperating
identification license that the person has provided satisfactory proof of
United States citizenship. 
2.A
legible photocopy of the applicant's birth certificate that verifies
citizenship to the satisfaction of the county recorder. 
3.A
legible photocopy of pertinent pages of the applicant's United States passport
identifying the applicant and the applicant's passport number or presentation
to the county recorder of the applicant's United States passport. 
4.A
presentation to the county recorder of the applicant's United States
naturalization documents or the number of the certificate of naturalization.
If only the number of the certificate of naturalization is provided, the
applicant shall not be included in the registration rolls until the number of
the certificate of naturalization is verified with the United States
immigration and naturalization service by the county recorder. 
5.Other
documents or methods of proof that are established pursuant to the immigration
reform and control act of 1986. 
6.The
applicant's bureau of Indian affairs card number, tribal treaty card number or
tribal enrollment number. 
G.Notwithstanding
subsection F of this section, any person who is registered in this state on the
effective date of this amendment to this section is deemed to have provided
satisfactory evidence of citizenship and shall not be required to resubmit
evidence of citizenship unless the person is changing voter registration from
one county to another. 
H.For
the purposes of this section, proof of voter registration from another state or
county is not satisfactory evidence of citizenship. 
I.A
person who modifies voter registration records with a new residence ballot
shall not be required to submit evidence of citizenship. After citizenship has
been demonstrated to the county recorder, the person is not required to
resubmit satisfactory evidence of citizenship in that county. 
J.After
a person has submitted satisfactory evidence of citizenship, the county
recorder shall indicate this information in the person's permanent voter file.
After two years the county recorder may destroy all documents that were
submitted as evidence of citizenship. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Subject to
the requirements of article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 16-579, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-579.Procedure for obtaining ballot by elector
A.Every qualified
elector, before receiving a ballot, shall announce the elector's name and place
of residence in a clear, audible tone of voice to the election official in
charge of the signature roster or present the elector's name and residence in
writing.If the
name is found on the precinct register or the qualified elector presents a
certificate from the county recorder showing that the eLECTOR is entitled by
law to vote in the precinct, the election official in charge of the
signature roster shall comply with the following
repeat the name and
the qualified elector shall be allowed within the voting area. : 
1.The
elector shall present any of the following:
(a)A
valid form of identification that bears the photograph, name and address of the
elector that reasonably appear to be the same as the name and address in the
precinct register, including an Arizona driver license, an Arizona nonoperating
identification license, a tribal enrollment card or other form of tribal
identification or a United States federal, state or local government issued
identification.Identification is deemed valid unless it can be
determined on its face that it has expired.
(b)Two
different items that contain the name and address of the elector that
reasonably appear to be the same as the name and address in the precinct
register, including a utility bill, a bank or credit union statement that is
dated within ninety days of the date of the election, a valid Arizona vehicle
registration, an Arizona vehicle insurance card, an Indian census card, tribal
enrollment card or other form of tribal identification, a property tax
statement, a recorder's certificate, a voter registration card, a valid United
States federal, state or local government issued identification or any mailing
that is labeled as "official election material". Identification is
deemed valid unless it can be determined on its face that it has expired.
(c)A
valid form of identification that bears the photograph, name and address of the
elector except that if the address on the identification does not reasonably
appear to be the same as the address in the precinct register or the
identification is a valid United States military identification card or a valid
United States passport and does not bear an address, the identification must be
accompanied by one of the items listed in subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
2.If
the elector does not present identification that complies with paragraph 1 of
this subsection, the elector is only eligible to vote a provisional ballot as
prescribed by section 16584 or a conditional provisional ballot as
provided for in the secretary of state's instruction and procedures manual
adopted pursuant to section 16452.
B.Any qualified elector
who is listed as having applied for an early ballot but who states that the
elector has not voted and will not vote an early ballot for this election or
surrenders the early ballot to the precinct inspector on election day shall be
allowed to vote pursuant to the procedure set forth in section 16584. 
C.Each qualified
elector's name shall be numbered consecutively by the clerks and in the order
of applications for ballots. The judge shall give the qualified elector only
one ballot, and the elector's name shall be immediately checked on the precinct
register. 
D.For precincts in
which a paper signature roster is used, each qualified elector shall sign the
elector's name in the signature roster prior
to before receiving a ballot, but an inspector or judge may sign
the roster for an elector who is unable to sign because of physical disability,
and in that event the name of the elector shall be written with red ink, and no
attestation or other proof shall be necessary.The provisions of
this subsection relating to signing the signature roster shall do
not apply to electors casting a ballot using early voting procedures.
E.For precincts in
which an electronic poll book system is used, each qualified elector shall sign
the elector's name as prescribed in the instructions and procedures manual
adopted by the secretary of state pursuant to section 16452 before
receiving a ballot, but an inspector or judge may sign the roster for an
elector who is unable to sign because of physical disability, and in that event
the name of the elector shall be written with the inspector's or judge's
attestation on the same signature line.
F.A person offering to
vote at a special district election for which no special district register has
been supplied shall sign an affidavit stating the person's address and that the
person resides within the district boundaries or proposed district boundaries
and swearing that the person is a qualified elector and has not already voted
at the election being held. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1,
section 1, Constitution of Arizona, sections 16-152, 16-166 and 16-579, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, are effective only on the affirmative
vote of at least threefourths of the members of each house of the
legislature.

