



PREFILED DEC 09 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: VLT; fee exemptions; first responders







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1008









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
28-5803.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to vehicle registration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-5803.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5803.01.Vehicle license tax and registration fee exemption; spouse
or dependents of first responder; applicability; definitions
A.Notwithstanding section
sections 28-2003 and 285801, beginning January 1, 2016,
the registering officer may not collect a vehicle license tax or registration
fee for a vehicle owned by a surviving spouse or a surviving dependent of a
deceased law enforcement officer,
firefighter or emergency
first responder who was killed in the line of duty or who died
from injuries suffered in the line of duty on or after April 5, 1933.
B.The exemption for a surviving spouse that is
provided by this section applies until the surviving spouse's remarriage or
death.The exemption for the surviving dependent applies until the
person is no longer considered a dependent.
C.A surviving spouse or surviving dependent may
claim only one vehicle for exemption under this section.
D.For the purposes of this section: ,

1."Dependent"
means an unmarried child of a deceased
law enforcement officer, firefighter or emergency first responder who meets one of the following
qualifications:
1.(a)Is
under eighteen years of age.
2.(b)Is
at least eighteen years of age and under twenty-three years of age only during
any period that the child is a full-time student.
3.(c)Is
under a disability that began before the child attained twentythree
years of age and remains a dependent of the surviving spouse or a guardian.
2."First
responder" Has the same meaning prescribed in section 36-661 and Includes
a person who is a volunteer first responder and who is operating in an official
capacity on behalf of a governmental entity that is involved in an emergency or
law enforcement response. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to from and after December 31,
2015.
Sec.3.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

