



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; governing boards; immediate
  family







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1049









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada





AN ACT

amending section
15421, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school district governing
board elections.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-421, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-421.Governing boards; members; qualifications; statement
A.The governing body of a school district shall be
a governing board. There shall be three governing board members, except as
otherwise provided by this section and section 15425, subsection A.
B.The governing body of a high school district
shall be a governing board composed of:
1.In a single district, the governing board members
of the common school district.
2.In a union high school district, five members.
C.A person who is a registered voter of this state
and has been a resident of the school district for at least one year
immediately preceding the day of election is eligible for election to the
office of governing board member.
D.No employee of a school district or the spouse of
such employee may hold membership on a governing board of a school district by
which such employee is employed.
E.A member of one governing board is ineligible to
be a candidate for nomination or election to or serve simultaneously as a
member of any other governing board, except that a member of a governing board
may be a candidate for nomination or election for any other governing board if
the member is serving in the last year of a term of office. A member of a
governing board shall resign the member's seat on the governing board before
becoming a candidate for nomination or election to the governing board of any
other school district, unless the member of the governing board is serving in
the last year of a term of office.
F.Notwithstanding section 15511, each county
school superintendent shall publish on its website the statement of each
certified candidate for membership on a school district governing board located
in the county. The county school superintendent shall list each school
district on its website from which a link shall be established to the
candidate's name, which shall link to the candidate's statement and
photograph. The candidate shall submit the statement to the person at the county
school superintendent's office assigned to manage candidate statements, after
notice of certification from the county school superintendent's office but not
later than twenty-one days before the date that general election early ballots
are allowed to be mailed. The person shall post each candidate's statement on
the county school superintendent's website not later than fourteen days before
the date that general election early ballots are allowed to be mailed. If a
candidate does not submit a statement, the county school superintendent's
website shall state "no response submitted" for the candidate. The
candidate statements shall be posted on the website alphabetically by each
school district and by candidate.The candidate statement shall be
typewritten or electronically submitted.The county school
superintendent shall post the statements verbatim as they are received unless a
candidate requests in writing that typographical errors be corrected. The
candidate statement shall contain the following items in the same size and
format for each candidate:
1.A recent photograph of the candidate.
2.A statement not to exceed five hundred words.
G.Persons
related as immediate family who have the same household of residence within
four years prior shall not serve simultaneously on the governing board of the
same school district if the governing board is composed of five members. A
qualified elector who resides in the school district may bring an action in
superior court to enforce this subsection.
H.A person
related as immediate family who has the same household of residence within four
years prior to a member of the governing board of the same school district is
ineligible to be a candidate for nomination or election to that governing board
if the governing board is composed of five members, except that a person
related as immediate family who has the same household of residence within four
years prior to a member of a governing board may be a candidate for nomination
or election to the governing board of the same school district if the member is
serving in the last year of a term of office. A qualified elector who resides
in the school district may bring an action in superior court to enforce this
subsection.
I.Persons
related as immediate family who have the same household of residence within
four years prior are ineligible to be simultaneous candidates for nomination or
election to the governing board of the same school district if the governing
board is composed of five members.A qualified elector who resides
in the school district may bring an action in superior court to enforce this
subsection.
J.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Household
of residence" means the place of abode during applicable time periods or
the residence address used by an individual for voter registration or property
tax purposes.
2."Immediate
family" means individuals who are married to each other and any children
of those individuals. END_STATUTE

