



PREFILED DEC 08 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: driver licenses; automatic voter
  registration 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1007









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

amending section
16-112, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to qualification and registration of
electors.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-112, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-112.Driver license voter registration
A.Every person who is applying for a driver
license or renewal and who is otherwise qualified to register to vote shall, at the same time and
place, shall be permitted
to register to vote by providing the information prescribed by section 16152.
Beginning January 1, 2017, every person
who is applying for a driver license or renewal and who is otherwise qualified
to register to vote shall be registered to vote automatically on completion of
the application for the license or renewal unless the applicant clearly
expresses the applicant's decision not to register.The
method used to register voters shall require only the minimum information
necessary to prevent duplicate registrations, to enable elections officials to
determine voter eligibility and to administer voter registration and election
laws. A registration form shall be included for a person who is applying for a
driver license renewal by mail. On completion of a form that contains at least
the information prescribed by section 16121.01, subsection A and that
may contain the information prescribed by section 16152 and on receipt
of that form by the county recorder from the department of transportation as
prescribed by subsection D of this section, the applicant is presumed to be
properly registered to vote. That presumption may be rebutted as provided in
section 16-121.01, subsection B.
B.The director of the department of transportation
and the secretary of state shall consult at least every two years regarding
voter registration at driver license offices. The director of the department
of transportation and the secretary of state shall, after consultation with all county
recorders, shall adopt rules
to implement a system permitting driver license applicants to register to vote
at the same time and place as they apply for driver licenses and to implement the automatic voter registration of
applicants unless the applicant affirmatively opts out of the voter
registration process. Such
The rules shall:
1.Bring the license application and voter
registration application forms into substantial conformity.
2.Permit the transfer of driver license
applications, including renewal and change of address, and voter registration
information from the department of transportation to the voter registration
rolls.
3.Respect all rules and statutes of this state
concerning the confidentiality of driver license application information.
4.Provide for the manual or electronic generation
and transmittal of voter registrations and provide for electronic generation of
changes in voter registration information, including address, in conformity
with the confidentiality requirements of the national voter registration act of
1993 (P.L. 10331; 107 Stat. 77; 42
52 United States Code
section 394 20501).
C.The department of transportation shall provide to
applicants a statement that provides each eligibility requirement for voting,
including citizenship, an attestation that the applicant meets each
requirement, for the signature of the applicant under penalty of perjury and,
in print that is identical to that used in the attestation, the following:
1.A description of the penalties provided by law
for the submission of a false voter registration application.
2.A statement that if an applicant declines to
register to vote the fact that the applicant has declined to register will
remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes.
3.A statement that if an applicant does register to
vote the office at which the applicant submits a voter registration application
will remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes.
D.The department of transportation shall return or
mail completed registrations to the county recorder of the county in which the
applicant resides within five days after receipt of a completed registration. END_STATUTE

