



PREFILED NOV 18 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: license plate covers; prohibition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1002









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

amending section
282354, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to license plates.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
28-2354, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2354.License plates; attachment; civil penalty
A.A person shall
display the license plate or plates as follows:
1.For a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, trailer or semitrailer, on the rear.
2.Except as provided in
paragraph 3 of this subsection, for a vehicle for which two license plates are
issued, the vehicle owner shall display either of the following:
(a)One plate on the
rear.
(b)One plate on the
front and one plate on the rear.
3.For a vehicle for
which two special license plates are issued pursuant to section 282409,
one plate on the rear of the vehicle and one plate on the operator's wheelchair
carrier or wheelchair lift when it is attached to the vehicle.
B.A person shall
display all license plates as required by subsectionA of this section
until their lawful use expires or is canceled or revoked.A person
shall maintain each license plate so it is clearly legible. A person shall
securely fasten each license plate to the vehicle as follows:
1.To prevent the plate
from swinging.
2.At a height of at
least twelve inches from the ground to the bottom of the plate.
3.In a position to be
clearly visible.
C.A person shall
maintain each license plate so that the name of this state at the top of the
license plate is not obscured.
D.Unless authorized by the department, a person shall
not apply a covering or any substance to the license plate or use an electronic
device or electrochromatic film that obscures from any angle the numbers,
characters, year validating tabs or name of the jurisdiction issuing the plate.
D.E.A
peace officer shall not stop or issue a citation to a person operating a motor
vehicle on a highway in this state for a violation of subsection C of this
section unless the peace officer has reasonable cause to believe there is
another alleged violation of a motor vehicle law of this state.
E.F.If
a person violates subsection C of this section, the person is subject to a
civil penalty of thirty dollars, except that if a person violates subsection C
of this section within twelve months after the date of a prior violation of
subsection C of this section, the person is subject to a civil penalty of one
hundred dollars. END_STATUTE

