



PREFILED DEC 21 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: racketeering; animal fighting;
  cockfighting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1022









Introduced by
Senators
  Farley, Sherwood





AN ACT

AMENDING SECTION
13-2301, ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES; RELATING TO ORGANIZED
CRIME, FRAUD AND
TERRORISM.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2301.Definitions
A.For the purposes of
sections 132302, 132303 and 132304:
1."Collect an
extension of credit" means to induce in any way any person to make
repayment of that extension.
2."Creditor"
means any person making an extension of credit or any person claiming by, under
or through any person making an extension of credit.
3."Debtor"
means any person to whom an extension of credit is made or any person who
guarantees the repayment of an extension of credit, or in any manner undertakes
to indemnify the creditor against loss resulting from the failure of any person
to whom an extension is made to repay the extension.
4."Extend
credit" means to make or renew any loan or to enter into any agreement,
tacit or express, whereby the repayment or satisfaction of any debt or claim,
whether acknowledged or disputed, valid or invalid, and however arising, may or
shall be deferred.
5."Extortionate
extension of credit" means any extension of credit with respect to which
it is the understanding of the creditor and the debtor at the time the
extension is made that delay in making repayment or failure to make repayment
could result in the use of violence or other criminal means to cause harm to the
person or the reputation or property of any person.
6."Extortionate
means" means the use, or an express or implicit threat of use, of violence
or other criminal means to cause harm to the person or the reputation or
property of any person.
7."Repayment of
any extension of credit" means the repayment, satisfaction or discharge in
whole or in part of any debt or claim, acknowledged or disputed, valid or
invalid, resulting from or in connection with that extension of credit.
B.For the purposes of
section 132305, 132306 or 132307:
1."Dealer in
property" means a person who buys and sells property as a business.
2."Stolen
property" means property of another as defined in section 131801
that has been the subject of any unlawful taking.
3."Traffic"
means to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or otherwise dispose of stolen
property to another person, or to buy, receive, possess or obtain control of
stolen property, with the intent to sell, transfer, distribute, dispense or
otherwise dispose of the property to another person.
C.For the purposes of
this chapter:
1."Animal
activity" means a commercial enterprise that uses animals for food,
clothing or fiber production, agriculture or biotechnology.
2."Animal
facility" means a building or premises where a commercial activity in
which the use of animals is essential takes place, including a zoo, rodeo,
circus, amusement park, hunting preserve and horse and dog event.
3."Animal or
ecological terrorism" means any felony in violation of section 132312,
subsection B that involves at least three persons acting in concert, that
involves the intentional or knowing infliction of property damage in an amount
of more than ten thousand dollars to the property that is used by a person for
the operation of a lawfully conducted animal activity or to a commercial
enterprise that is engaged in a lawfully operated animal facility or research
facility and that involves either:
(a)The use of a deadly
weapon or dangerous instrument.
(b)The intentional or
knowing infliction of serious physical injury on a person engaged in a lawfully
conducted animal activity or participating in a lawfully conducted animal
facility or research facility.
4."Biological
agent" means any microorganism, virus, infectious substance or biological
product that may be engineered through biotechnology or any naturally occurring
or bioengineered component of any microorganism, virus, infectious substance or
biological product and that is capable of causing any of the following:
(a)Death, disease or
physical injury in a human, animal, plant or other living organism.
(b)The deterioration or
contamination of air, food, water, equipment, supplies or material of any kind.
5."Combination"
means persons who collaborate in carrying on or furthering the activities or
purposes of a criminal syndicate even though such persons may not know each
other's identity, membership in the combination changes from time to time or
one or more members may stand in a wholesalerretailer or other arm's
length relationship with others as to activities or dealings between or among
themselves in an illicit operation.
6."Communication
service provider" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133001.
7."Criminal
syndicate" means any combination of persons or enterprises engaging, or
having the purpose of engaging, on a continuing basis in conduct that violates
any one or more provisions of any felony statute of this state.
8."Explosive
agent" means an explosive as defined in section 133101 and
flammable fuels or fire accelerants in amounts over fifty gallons but excludes:
(a)Fireworks as defined
in section 361601.
(b)Firearms.
(c)A propellant
actuated device or propellant actuated industrial tool.
(d)A device that is
commercially manufactured primarily for the purpose of illumination.
(e)A rocket having a
propellant charge of less than four ounces.
9."Material
support or resources" includes money or other financial securities,
financial services, lodging, sustenance, training, safehouses, false documentation
or identification, communications equipment, facilities, weapons, lethal
substances, explosives, personnel, transportation, disguises and other physical
assets but does not include medical assistance, legal assistance or religious
materials.
10."Public
establishment" means a structure that is owned, leased or operated by this
state or a political subdivision of this state or a health care institution as
defined in section 36401.
11."Research
facility" means a laboratory, institution, medical care facility,
government facility, public or private educational institution or nature
preserve at which a scientific test, experiment or investigation involving the
use of animals is lawfully carried out, conducted or attempted.
12."Terrorism"
means any felony, including any completed or preparatory offense, that involves
the use of a deadly weapon or a weapon of mass destruction or the intentional
or knowing infliction of serious physical injury with the intent to either:
(a)Influence the policy
or affect the conduct of this state or any of the political subdivisions,
agencies or instrumentalities of this state.
(b)Cause substantial
damage to or substantial interruption of public communications, communication
service providers, public transportation, common carriers, public utilities,
public establishments or other public services.
13."Toxin"
means the toxic material of plants, animals, microorganisms, viruses, fungi or
infectious substances or a recombinant molecule, whatever its origin or method
of reproduction, including:
(a)Any poisonous
substance or biological product that may be engineered through biotechnology
and that is produced by a living organism.
(b)Any poisonous isomer
or biological product, homolog or derivative of such substance.
14."Vector"
means a living organism or molecule, including a recombinant molecule or
biological product that may be engineered through biotechnology, that is
capable of carrying a biological agent or toxin to a host.
15."Weapon of mass
destruction" means:
(a)Any device or object
that is designed or that the person intends to use to cause multiple deaths or
serious physical injuries through the use of an explosive agent or the release,
dissemination or impact of a toxin, biological agent, poisonous chemical, or
its precursor, or any vector.
(b)Except as authorized
and used in accordance with a license, registration or exemption by the
radiation regulatory agency pursuant to section 30672, any device or
object that is designed or that the person intends to use to release radiation
or radioactivity at a level that is dangerous to human life.
D.For the purposes of
sections 132312, 132313, 132314 and 132315, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Control",
in relation to an enterprise, means the possession of sufficient means to
permit substantial direction over the affairs of an enterprise and, in relation
to property, means to acquire or possess.
2."Enterprise"
means any corporation, partnership, association, labor union or other legal entity
or any group of persons associated in fact although not a legal entity.
3."Financial
institution" means any business under the jurisdiction of the department
of financial institutions or a banking or securities regulatory agency of the
United States, a business coming within the definition of a bank, financial
agency or financial institution as prescribed by 31 United States Code section
5312 or 31 Code of Federal Regulations section 1010.100 or a business under the
jurisdiction of the securities division of the corporation commission, the
state real estate department or the department of insurance.
4."Racketeering"
means any act, including any preparatory or completed offense, that is
chargeable or indictable under the laws of the state or country in which the
act occurred and, if the act occurred in a state or country other than this
state, that would be chargeable or indictable under the laws of this state if
the act had occurred in this state, and that would be punishable by
imprisonment for more than one year under the laws of this state and, if the
act occurred in a state or country other than this state, under the laws of the
state or country in which the act occurred, regardless of whether the act is
charged or indicted, and the act involves either:
(a)Terrorism, animal
terrorism or ecological terrorism that results or is intended to result in a
risk of serious physical injury or death.
(b)Any of the following
acts if committed for financial gain:
(i)Homicide.
(ii)Robbery.
(iii)Kidnapping.
(iv)Forgery.
(v)Theft.
(vi)Bribery.
(vii)Gambling.
(viii)Usury.
(ix)Extortion.
(x)Extortionate
extensions of credit.
(xi)Prohibited drugs,
marijuana or other prohibited chemicals or substances.
(xii)Trafficking in
explosives, weapons or stolen property.
(xiii)Participating in
a criminal syndicate.
(xiv)Obstructing or
hindering criminal investigations or prosecutions.
(xv)Asserting false
claims including, but not limited to, false claims asserted through fraud or
arson.
(xvi)Intentional or
reckless false statements or publications concerning land for sale or lease or
sale of subdivided lands or sale and mortgaging of unsubdivided lands.
(xvii)Resale of realty
with intent to defraud.
(xviii)Intentional or
reckless fraud in the purchase or sale of securities.
(xix)Intentional or
reckless sale of unregistered securities or real property securities.
(xx)A scheme or
artifice to defraud.
(xxi)Obscenity.
(xxii)Sexual
exploitation of a minor.
(xxiii)Prostitution.
(xxiv)Restraint of
trade or commerce in violation of section 34252.
(xxv)Terrorism.
(xxvi)Money laundering.
(xxvii)Obscene or
indecent telephone communications to minors for commercial purposes.
(xxviii)Counterfeiting
marks as proscribed in section 441453.
(xxix)Animal terrorism
or ecological terrorism.
(xxx)Smuggling of human
beings.
(xxxi)Child
prostitution.
(xxxii)Sex trafficking.
(xxxiii)Trafficking of
persons for forced labor or services.
(xxxiv)Manufacturing,
selling or distributing misbranded drugs in violation of section 133406,
subsection A, paragraph 9.
(xxxv)Animal
fighting or cockfighting.
5."Records"
means any book, paper, writing, computer program, data, image or information
that is collected, recorded, preserved or maintained in any form of storage
medium.
6."Remedy
racketeering" means to enter a civil judgment pursuant to this chapter or
chapter 39 of this title against property or a person who is subject to
liability, including liability for injury to the state that is caused by
racketeering or by actions in concert with racketeering.
E.For the purposes of
sections 132316, 132316.01 and 132316.02:
1."Access"
means to instruct, communicate with, store data in, retrieve data from or
otherwise make use of any resources of a computer, computer system or network.
2."Access
device" means any card, token, code, account number, electronic serial
number, mobile or personal identification number, password, encryption key,
biometric identifier or other means of account access, including a canceled or
revoked access device, that can be used alone or in conjunction with another
access device to obtain money, goods, services, computer or network access or
any other thing of value or that can be used to initiate a transfer of any
thing of value.
3."Computer"
means an electronic device that performs logic, arithmetic or memory functions
by the manipulations of electronic or magnetic impulses and includes all input,
output, processing, storage, software or communication facilities that are
connected or related to such a device in a system or network.
4."Computer
contaminant" means any set of computer instructions that is designed to
modify, damage, destroy, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system or network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information, computer system or network.Computer contaminant
includes a group of computer instructions, such as viruses or worms, that is
selfreplicating or selfpropagating and that is designed to
contaminate other computer programs or computer data, to consume computer
resources, to modify, destroy, record or transmit data or in some other fashion
to usurp the normal operation of the computer, computer system or network.
5."Computer
program" means a series of instructions or statements, in a form
acceptable to a computer, that permits the functioning of a computer system in
a manner designed to provide appropriate products from the computer system.
6."Computer
software" means a set of computer programs, procedures and associated
documentation concerned with the operation of a computer system.
7."Computer
system" means a set of related, connected or unconnected computer
equipment, devices and software, including storage, media and peripheral devices.
8."Critical
infrastructure resource" means any computer or communications system or
network that is involved in providing services necessary to ensure or protect
the public health, safety or welfare, including services that are provided by
any of the following:
(a)Medical personnel
and institutions.
(b)Emergency services
agencies.
(c)Public and private
utilities, including water, power, communications and transportation services.
(d)Fire departments,
districts or volunteer organizations.
(e)Law enforcement
agencies.
(f)Financial
institutions.
(g)Public educational
institutions.
(h)Government agencies.
9."False or
fraudulent pretense" means the unauthorized use of an access device or the
use of an access device to exceed authorized access.
10."Financial
instrument" means any check, draft, money order, certificate of deposit,
letter of credit, bill of exchange, credit card or marketable security or any
other written instrument as defined in section 132001 that is
transferable for value.
11."Network"
includes a complex of interconnected computer or communication systems of any
type.
12."Property"
means financial instruments, information, including electronically produced
data, computer software and programs in either machine or human readable form,
and anything of value, tangible or intangible.
13."Proprietary or
confidential computer security information" means information about a
particular computer, computer system or network that relates to its access
devices, security practices, methods and systems, architecture, communications
facilities, encryption methods and system vulnerabilities and that is not made
available to the public by its owner or operator.
14."Services"
includes computer time, data processing, storage functions and all types of
communication functions. END_STATUTE

