



PREFILED DEC 29 2015



REFERENCE TITLE: voter registration; social security
  number







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1029









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending section
16-166, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to qualification and registration of
electors.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Subject
to the requirements of article IV, part 1, section1, Constitution of
Arizona, section 16-166, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-166.Verification of registration
A.Except for the
mailing of sample ballots, a county recorder who mails an item to any elector
shall send the mailing by nonforwardable first class mail marked with the
statement required by the postmaster to receive an address correction
notification. If the item is returned undelivered, the county recorder shall
send a followup notice to that elector within three weeks of receipt of
the returned notice. The county recorder shall send the followup notice
to the address that appears in the general county register or to the forwarding
address provided by the United States postal service. The followup
notice shall include a registration form and the information prescribed by
section 16131, subsection C and shall state that if the elector does not
complete and return a new registration form with current information to the
county recorder within thirtyfive days, the elector's registration
status shall be changed from active to inactive.
B.If the elector
provides the county recorder with a new registration form, the county recorder
shall change the general register to reflect the changes indicated on the new
registration. If the elector indicates a new residence address outside that
county, the county recorder shall forward the voter registration form to the
county recorder of the county in which the elector's address is located. If
the elector provides a new residence address that is located outside this
state, the county recorder shall cancel the elector's registration.
C.The county recorder
shall maintain on the inactive voter list the names of electors who have been
removed from the general register pursuant to subsection A or E of this section
for a period of four years or through the date of the second general election
for federal office following the date of the notice from the county recorder
that is sent pursuant to subsection E of this section.
D.On notice that a
government agency has changed the name of any street, route number, post office
box number or other address designation, the county recorder shall revise the
registration records and shall send a new verification of registration notice
to the electors whose records were changed.
E.The county recorder
on or before May 1 of each year preceding a state primary and general election
or more frequently as the recorder deems necessary may use the change of
address information supplied by the postal service through its licensees to
identify registrants whose addresses may have changed.If it appears
from information provided by the postal service that a registrant has moved to
a different residence address in the same county, the county recorder shall
change the registration records to reflect the new address and shall send the
registrant a notice of the change by forwardable mail and a postage prepaid
preaddressed return form by which the registrant may verify or correct the
registration information. If the registrant fails to return the form
postmarked not later than thirty-five days after the mailing of the notice, the
elector's registration status shall be changed from active to inactive.If
the notice sent by the recorder is not returned, the registrant may be required
to provide affirmation or confirmation of the registrant's address in order to
vote. If the registrant does not vote in an election during the period after
the date of the notice from the recorder through the date of the second general
election for federal office following the date of that notice, the registrant's
name shall be removed from the list of inactive voters. If the registrant has
changed residence to a new county, the county recorder shall provide
information on how the registrant can continue to be eligible to vote.
F.The county recorder
shall reject any application for registration that is not accompanied by
satisfactory evidence of United States citizenship. Satisfactory evidence of
citizenship shall include any of the following:
1.The number of the
applicant's driver license or nonoperating identification license issued after
October 1, 1996 by the department of transportation or the equivalent
governmental agency of another state within the United States if the agency
indicates on the applicant's driver license or nonoperating identification
license that the person has provided satisfactory proof of United States
citizenship.
2.A legible photocopy
of the applicant's birth certificate that verifies citizenship to the
satisfaction of the county recorder.
3.A legible photocopy
of pertinent pages of the applicant's United States passport identifying the
applicant and the applicant's passport number or presentation to the county
recorder of the applicant's United States passport.
4.A presentation to the
county recorder of the applicant's United States naturalization documents or
the number of the certificate of naturalization. If only the number of the
certificate of naturalization is provided, the applicant shall not be included
in the registration rolls until the number of the certificate of naturalization
is verified with the United States immigration and
naturalization service citizenship
and immigration services by the county recorder. 
5.Other documents or
methods of proof that are established pursuant to the immigration reform and
control act of 1986.
6.The applicant's
bureau of Indian affairs card number, tribal treaty card number or tribal enrollment
number.
7.Verification of the last four digits of the
applicant's social security number.
G.Notwithstanding
subsection F of this section, any person who is registered in this state on the effective date of this amendment to this section
December 8, 2004 is
deemed to have provided satisfactory evidence of citizenship and shall not be
required to resubmit evidence of citizenship unless the person is changing
voter registration from one county to another. 
H.For the purposes of
this section, proof of voter registration from another state or county is not
satisfactory evidence of citizenship.
I.A person who modifies
voter registration records with a new residence ballot shall not be required to
submit evidence of citizenship. After citizenship has been demonstrated to the
county recorder, the person is not required to resubmit satisfactory evidence
of citizenship in that county.
J.After a person has
submitted satisfactory evidence of citizenship, the county recorder shall
indicate this information in the person's permanent voter file. After two
years the county recorder may destroy all documents that were submitted as
evidence of citizenship. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Requirements for enactment; three-fourths vote
Pursuant to article IV, part 1,
section 1, Constitution of Arizona, section 16-166, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by this act, is effective only on the affirmative vote of at least
three-fourths of the members of each house of the legislature.

