



PREFILED JAN 06 2016



REFERENCE TITLE: schools; transfer students; competency
  requirements







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1051









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representative Andrade





AN ACT

amending sections
15701 and 15701.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school
curricula.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-701.Common school; promotions; requirements; certificate;
supervision of eighth grades by superintendent of high school district; high
school admissions; academic credit; definition
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Prescribe a minimum course of study, as defined
in section 15101 and incorporating the academic standards adopted by the
state board of education, to be taught in the common schools.
2.Prescribe competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the eighth grade and competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the third grade incorporating the academic standards
in at least the areas of reading, writing, mathematics, science and social studies.
Notwithstanding section 15521, paragraph 4, the competency requirements
for the promotion of pupils from the third grade shall include the following:
(a)A requirement that a pupil not be promoted from
the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level or
the equivalent as established by the board. A pupil may not be retained if
data regarding the pupil's performance on the Arizona instrument to measure
standards test, or a successor test, is not available before the start of the
following academic year. A pupil who is not retained due to the unavailability
of test data must receive intervention and remedial strategies pursuant to
subdivision (c) of this paragraph if the third grade assessment data
subsequently demonstrates that the pupil's reading ability falls far below the
third grade level or the equivalent.
(b)A mechanism to allow a school district governing
board or the governing body of a charter school to promote a pupil from the
third grade who obtains a score on the reading portion of the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that demonstrates
that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level for any of the
following:
(i)A good cause exemption if the pupil is an
English learner or a limited English proficient student as defined in section
15751 and has had fewer than two years of English language instruction.
(ii)A pupil who is in the process of a special
education referral or evaluation for placement in special education, or a pupil who has been diagnosed as having a
significant reading impairment, including dyslexia, or a pupil who is a child with a disability
as defined in section 15761 if the pupil's individualized education
program team and the pupil's parent or guardian agree that promotion is
appropriate based on the pupil's individualized education program.
(c)Intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education for pupils who are not promoted from the third
grade. A school district governing board or the governing body of a charter
school shall offer at least one of the intervention and remedial strategies
developed by the state board of education. The parent or guardian of a pupil
who is not promoted from the third grade and the pupil's teacher and principal
may choose the most appropriate intervention and remedial strategies that will
be provided to that pupil. The intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education shall include:
(i)A requirement that the pupil be assigned to a
different teacher for reading instruction.
(ii)Summer school reading instruction.
(iii)In the next academic year, intensive reading
instruction that occurs before, during or after the regular school day, or any
combination of before, during and after the regular school day.
(iv)Online reading instruction.
3.Provide for universal screening of pupils in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs and grades one through three that is
designed to identify pupils who have reading deficiencies pursuant to section
15704.
4.Develop intervention and remedial strategies
pursuant to paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this subsection for pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one through three who are identified as having
reading deficiencies pursuant to section 15704.
5.Distribute guidelines for the school districts to
follow in prescribing criteria for the promotion of pupils from grade to grade
in the common schools.These guidelines shall include recommended
procedures for ensuring that the cultural background of a pupil is taken into
consideration when criteria for promotion are being applied.
B.School districts and charter schools shall
provide annual written notification to parents of pupils in kindergarten
programs and first, second and third grades that a pupil who obtains a score on
the reading portion of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a
successor test, that demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third
grade level will not be promoted from the third grade.If the school
has determined that the pupil is substantially deficient in reading before the
end of grade three, the school district or charter school shall provide to the
parent of that pupil a separate written notification of the reading deficiency
that includes the following information:
1.A description of the current reading services provided
to the pupil.
2.A description of the available supplemental
instructional services and supporting programs that are designed to remediate
reading deficiencies. Each school district or charter school shall offer at
least one intervention strategy and at least one remedial strategy for pupils
with reading deficiencies.The notification shall list the
intervention and remedial strategies offered and shall instruct the parent or
guardian to choose the strategy that will be implemented for that child.
3.Parental strategies to assist the pupil to attain
reading proficiency.
4.A statement that the pupil will not be promoted
from the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third grade level, unless the
pupil is exempt from mandatory retention in grade three or the pupil qualifies
for an exemption pursuant to subsection A of this section.
5.A description of the school district or charter
school policies on midyear promotion to a higher grade.
C.Pursuant to the guidelines that the state board
of education distributes, the governing board of a school district shall:
1.Prescribe curricula that include the academic
standards in the required subject areas pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1
of this section.
2.Prescribe criteria for the promotion of pupils
from grade to grade in the common schools in the school
district.These criteria shall include accomplishment of the
academic standards in at least reading, writing, mathematics, science and
social studies, as determined by district assessment.Other criteria
may include additional measures of academic achievement and attendance.
D.The governing board may prescribe the course of
study and competency requirements for promotion that are in addition to or
higher than the course of study and competency requirements the state board
prescribes.
E.A teacher shall determine whether to promote or
retain a pupil in grade in a common school as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4 on the basis of the prescribed criteria.The governing
board, if it reviews the decision of a teacher to promote or retain a pupil in
grade in a common school as provided in section 15342, paragraph 11,
shall base its decision on the prescribed criteria.
F.A governing board may provide and issue
certificates of promotion to pupils whom it promotes from the eighth grade of a
common school. Such certificates shall be signed by the principal or
superintendent of schools. Where there is no principal or superintendent of
schools, the certificates shall be signed by the teacher of an eighth
grade.The certificates shall admit the holders to any high school
in the state.
G.Within any high school district or union high
school district, the superintendent of the high school district shall supervise
the work of the eighth grade of all schools employing no superintendent or
principal.
H.A school district shall not deny a pupil who is between
the ages of sixteen and twentyone years admission to a high school
because the pupil does not hold an eighth grade
certificate.Governing boards shall establish procedures for
determining the admissibility of pupils who are under sixteen years of age and
who do not hold eighth grade certificates.
I.The state board of education shall adopt rules to
allow common school pupils who can demonstrate competency in a particular
academic course or subject to obtain academic credit for the course or subject
without enrolling in the course or subject.
J.A school district may conduct a ceremony to honor
pupils who have been promoted from the eighth grade.
K.If a
pupil transfers into a school district or charter school and subsequently does
not meet the competency requirements for the promotion of pupils from the third
or eighth grade, the school, school district or charter school into which the
pupil transferred is not required to report or count that pupil's failure to be
promoted unless the pupil continues to not meet the competency requirements for
the promotion of pupils from the third or eighth grade one year after that
pupil originally failed to meet the competency requirements for promotion.
K.L.For the purposes
of this section, "dyslexia" means a brainbased learning
difference that impairs a person's ability to read and spell, that is
independent of intelligence and that typically causes a person to read at
levels lower than expected. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-701.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-701.01.High school; graduation; requirements; community college
or university courses; transfer from private schools; academic credit
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Prescribe a minimum course of study, as defined
in section 15101 and incorporating the academic standards adopted by the
state board of education, for the graduation of pupils from high school.
2.Prescribe competency requirements for the
graduation of pupils from high school incorporating the academic standards in
at least the areas of reading, writing, mathematics, science and social
studies. The academic standards prescribed by the state board of education in
social studies shall include personal finance.This paragraph does
not allow the state board of education to establish a required separate
personal finance course for the purpose of the graduation of pupils from high
school.Beginning in the 20162017 school year, the competency
requirements for social studies shall include a requirement that, in order to
graduate from high school or obtain a high school equivalency diploma, a pupil
must correctly answer at least sixty of the one hundred questions listed on a
test that is identical to the civics portion of the naturalization test used by
the United States citizenship and immigration services. A district school or
charter school shall document on the pupil's transcript that the pupil has passed
a test that is identical to the civics portion of the naturalization test used
by the United States citizenship and immigration services as required by this
section.
3.Develop and adopt competency tests pursuant to
section 15741. English language learners who are subject to article 3.1
of this chapter are subject to the assessments prescribed in section 15741.
B.The governing board of a school district shall:
1.Prescribe curricula that include the academic
standards in the required subject areas pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1
of this section.
2.Prescribe criteria for the graduation of pupils
from the high schools in the school district. These criteria shall include
accomplishment of the academic standards in at least reading, writing, mathematics,
science and social studies, as determined by district assessment. Other
criteria may include additional measures of academic achievement and
attendance. Pursuant to the prescribed graduation requirements adopted by the
state board of education, the governing board may approve a rigorous computer
science course that would fulfill a mathematics course required for graduation
from high school.The governing board may approve a rigorous
computer science course only if the rigorous computer science course includes
significant mathematics content and the governing board determines the high
school where the rigorous computer science course is offered has sufficient
capacity, infrastructure
and qualified staff, including
competent teachers of computer science. The school district governing board or
charter school governing body may determine the method and manner in which to
administer a test that is identical to the civics portion of the naturalization
test used by the United States citizenship and immigration services. A pupil
who does not obtain a passing score on the test that is identical to the civics
portion of the naturalization test may retake the test until the pupil obtains
a passing score.
C.The governing board may prescribe the course of
study and competency requirements for the graduation of pupils from high school
that are in addition to or higher than the course of study and competency
requirements that the state board prescribes.
D.The governing board may prescribe competency requirements
for the passage of pupils in courses that are required for graduation from high
school.
E.A teacher shall determine whether to pass or fail
a pupil in a course in high school as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4 on the basis of the competency requirements, if any have been
prescribed.The governing board, if it reviews the decision of a
teacher to pass or fail a pupil in a course in high school as provided in
section 15342, paragraph 11, shall base its decision on the competency
requirements, if any have been prescribed.
F.Graduation requirements established by the
governing board may be met by a pupil who passes courses in the required or
elective subjects at a community college or university, if the course is at a
higher level than the course taught in the high school attended by the pupil
or, if the course is not taught in the high school, the level of the course is
equal to or higher than the level of a high school course.The
governing board shall determine if the subject matter of the community college
or university course is appropriate to the specific requirement the pupil
intends it to fulfill and if the level of the community college or university
course is less than, equal to or higher than a high school course, and the
governing board shall award onehalf of a carnegie unit for each three
semester hours of credit the pupil earns in an appropriate community college or
university course.If a pupil is not satisfied with the decision of
the governing board regarding the amount of credit granted or the subjects for
which credit is granted, the pupil may request that the state board of
education review the decision of the governing board, and the state board shall
make the final determination of the amount of credit to be given the pupil and
for which subjects.The governing board shall not limit the number
of credits that is required for high school graduation and that may be met by
taking community college or university courses. For the purposes of this
subsection:
1."Community college" means an
educational institution that is operated by a community college district as
defined in section 151401 or a postsecondary educational institution
under the jurisdiction of an Indian tribe recognized by the United States
department of the interior.
2."University" means a university under
the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
G.A pupil who transfers from a private school shall
be provided with a list that indicates those credits that have been accepted
and denied by the school district.A pupil may request to take an
examination in each particular course in which credit has been denied. The
school district shall accept the credit for each particular course in which the
pupil takes an examination and receives a passing score on a test designed and
evaluated by a teacher in the school district who teaches the subject matter on
which the examination is based. In addition to the above requirements, the
governing board of a school district may prescribe requirements for the acceptance
of the credits of pupils who transfer from a private school.
H.If a pupil who was previously enrolled in a
charter school or school district enrolls in a school district in this state,
the school district shall accept credits earned by the pupil in courses or
instructional programs at the charter school or school district. The governing
board of a school district may adopt a policy concerning the application of
transfer credits for the purpose of determining whether a credit earned by a
pupil who was previously enrolled in a school district or charter school will
be assigned as an elective or core credit.
I.A pupil who transfers credit from a charter
school, a school district
or Arizona online instruction shall be provided with a list that indicates
which credits have been accepted as an elective credit and which credits have
been accepted as a core credit by the school district or charter
school.Within ten school days after receiving the list, a pupil may
request to take an examination in each particular course in which core credit
has been denied. The school district or charter school shall accept the credit
as a core credit for each particular course in which the pupil takes an
examination and receives a passing score on a test, aligned to the competency
requirements adopted pursuant to this section, designed and evaluated by a
teacher in the school district or charter school who teaches the subject matter
on which the examination is based. If a pupil is enrolled in a school district
or charter school and that pupil also participates in Arizona online
instruction between May 1 and July 31, the school district or charter school
shall not require proof of payment as a condition of the school district or
charter school accepting credits earned from the online course provider.
J.The state board of education shall adopt rules to
allow high school pupils who can demonstrate competency in a particular
academic course or subject to obtain academic credit for the course or subject
without enrolling in the course or subject.
K.Pupils who earn a Grand Canyon diploma pursuant
to article 6 of this chapter are exempt from the graduation requirements
prescribed in this section.Pupils who earn a Grand Canyon diploma
are entitled to all the rights and privileges of persons who graduate with a
high school diploma issued pursuant to this section, including access to
postsecondary scholarships and other forms of student financial aid and access
to all forms of postsecondary education. Notwithstanding any other law, a
pupil who is eligible for a Grand Canyon diploma may elect to remain in high
school through grade twelve and shall not be prevented from enrolling at a high
school after the pupil becomes eligible for a Grand Canyon
diploma.A pupil who is eligible for a Grand Canyon diploma and who
elects not to pursue one of the options prescribed in section 15792.03
may only be readmitted to that high school or another high school in this state
pursuant to policies adopted by the school district of readmission.
L.If a
pupil transfers into a school district or charter school and subsequently does
not meet the competency requirements for the graduation of pupils from high
school, the school, school district or charter school into which the pupil
transferred is not required to report or count that pupil's failure to graduate
unless the pupil continues to not meet the competency requirements for the
graduation of pupils from high school one year after that pupil originally
failed to meet the graduation requirements. END_STATUTE

