







REFERENCE TITLE: vulnerable users of public ways







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1090









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

amending sections
13-2921 and 28-667, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 28-735, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 28, chapter 3, article 15, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 28-913; relating to vulnerable users of public
ways.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
13-2921, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2921.Harassment; classification; definition
A.A person commits
harassment if, with intent to harass or with knowledge that the person is
harassing another person, the person:
1.Anonymously or
otherwise contacts, communicates or causes a communication with another person
by verbal, electronic, mechanical, telegraphic, telephonic or written means in
a manner that harasses.
2.Continues to follow
another person in or about a public place for no legitimate purpose after being
asked to desist.
3.Repeatedly commits an
act or acts that harass another person.
4.Surveils or causes
another person to surveil a person for no legitimate purpose.
5.On more than one
occasion makes a false report to a law enforcement, credit or social service
agency.
6.Interferes with the
delivery of any public or regulated utility to a person.
7.Taunts or maliciously throws an object at or in the
direction of a vulnerable user of a public way as defined in section 28913.
B.A person commits
harassment against a public officer or employee if the person, with intent to
harass, files a nonconsensual lien against any public officer or employee that
is not accompanied by an order or a judgment from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the filing of the lien or is not issued by a
governmental entity or political subdivision or agency pursuant to its statutory
authority, a validly licensed utility or water delivery company, a mechanics'
lien claimant or an entity created under covenants, conditions, restrictions or
declarations affecting real property.
C.Harassment under
subsection A is a class 1 misdemeanor.Harassment under subsection B
is a class 5 felony.
D.This section does not
apply to an otherwise lawful demonstration, assembly or picketing.
E.For the purposes of
this section, "harassment" means conduct that is directed at a
specific person and that would cause a reasonable person to be seriously
alarmed, annoyed or harassed and the conduct in fact seriously alarms, annoys
or harasses the person. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
28-667, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-667.Written accident report; definition
A.A law enforcement
officer or public employee who, in the regular course of duty, investigates a
motor vehicle accident resulting in bodily injury, death or damage to the
property of any person in excess of one thousand dollars or the issuance of a
citation shall complete a written report of the accident as follows:
1.Either at the time of
and at the scene of the accident or after the accident by interviewing
participants or witnesses.
2.Within twentyfour
hours after completing the investigation.
3.If a citation is issued and the accident resulted in
serious physical injury to or death of a vulnerable user of a public way as
defined in section 28-913, whether the cited offense appears to have
contributed to the serious physical injury or death.
B.Every law enforcement
officer or public employee who, in the regular course of duty, investigates a
motor vehicle accident that results in damage to the property of any person in
an amount of one thousand dollars or less, but that does not result in the
issuance of a citation or bodily injury or death, shall complete a portion of
the written report of the accident. The portion of the written report shall:
1.Be completed either
at the time of and at the scene of the accident or after the accident by
interviewing participants or witnesses.
2.Be completed within
twentyfour hours after completing the investigation.
3.Include the following
minimum information:
(a)The time, day, month
and year of the accident.
(b)Information adequate
to identify the location of the accident.
(c)Identifying
information for all involved parties and witnesses, including name, age, sex, address,
telephone number, vehicle ownership and registration and proof of insurance.
(d)A narrative
description of the facts of the accident, a simple diagram of the scene of the
accident and the investigating officer's name, agency and identification number.
C.The agency employing
the officer or public employee:
1.Shall not allow a
person to examine the accident report or any related investigation report or a
reproduction of the accident report or a related investigation report if the
request is for a commercial solicitation purpose.
2.May require a person
requesting the accident or related investigative report to state under penalty
of perjury that the report is not examined or copied for a commercial
solicitation purpose.
3.May retain the original
report.
4.Shall maintain an
electronic copy of the original report if the agency elects not to retain the
original report pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection.
5.Shall immediately
forward a copy of the report to the department of transportation for its use.
6.Except as otherwise
provided by law, on request shall provide a copy of the unredacted report to
the following:
(a)A person who is
involved in the accident or the owner of a vehicle involved in the accident or
a representative of the person or owner.
(b)Any insurer licensed
pursuant to title 20 if the report is related to an investigation into
fraudulent claims, or any insurer that writes automobile liability or motor
vehicle liability policies and that is both of the following:
(i)Under the
jurisdiction of the department of insurance or a selfinsured entity or
its agents, employees or contractors in connection with claims investigation
activities, antifraud activities, rating or underwriting.
(ii)An insurer of a
person or vehicle involved in the accident.
(c)An attorney licensed
to practice law or to a licensed private investigator representing a person
involved in the accident in connection with any civil, administrative or
arbitration proceeding in any court or government agency or before any selfregulatory
body, including the service of process, investigation in anticipation of
litigation and the execution or enforcement of judgments and orders, or
pursuant to a court order.
(d)An insurance support
organization as defined in section 202102 that provides services in
connection with claims investigation activities, antifraud activities, rating
or underwriting.
D.If a request is made
pursuant to subsection C, paragraph 6, subdivision (a) or (c) of this section
and the accident report indicates that a criminal complaint has been issued,
before the report is released the personal identifying information regarding
any victim shall be redacted from the accident report pursuant to section 134434.
E.A law enforcement
agency may deny a request for a copy of an unredacted accident report if the
agency determines that release of the report would be harmful to a criminal
investigation.
F.The department may
place notes, date stamps, identifying numbers, marks or other information on
the copies as needed, if they do not alter the original information reported by
the investigating officer or public employee.
G.Any law restricting
the distribution of personal identifying information by a business entity
described in subsection C, paragraph 6, subdivisions (b) and (d) of this
section applies to personal identifying information contained in an accident
report. If a person who receives information under this section is not
otherwise subject to distribution restrictions for information contained in
accident reports, the person shall not release the report or any information
contained in the report except to those persons designated in subsection C,
paragraph 6 of this section.
H.For the purposes of
this section, "commercial solicitation purpose" means a request for
an accident report if there is neither:
1.A relationship
between the person or the principal of the person requesting the accident
report and any party involved in the accident.
2.A reason for the
person to request the report other than for the purposes of soliciting a
business or commercial relationship. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 28-735,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Title 28,
chapter 3, article 15, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
28-913, to read:
START_STATUTE28-913.Operating a motor vehicle near a vulnerable user of a
public way; endangering a vulnerable user of a public way; violation;
classification; definitions
A.An operator of a motor vehicle may not knowingly,
intentionally or recklessly do any of the following:
1.Operate the motor vehicle within three feet of a
vulnerable user of a public way.If while overtaking a vulnerable
user of a public way the driver is involved in a collision with the vulnerable
user of a public way, the collision is prima facie evidence OF the driver's
failure to leave at least three feet between the motor vehicle and the
vulnerable user of a public way.
2.Distract or attempt to distract a vulnerable user of a
public way for the purpose of causing violence or injury to the vulnerable user
of a public way.
3.Force or attempt to force a vulnerable user of a
public way off of a public way, crosswalk or shoulder of the highway except as
necessary for purposes of public safety.
B.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 2 misdemeanor, except that if the violation resulted in serious physical
injury to or death of a vulnerable user of a public way, the court shall:
1.Impose a sentence that requires the person to complete
a traffic safety course and perform between one hundred and two hundred hours
of community restitution.The community restitution must include
activities related to driver improvement and public education on traffic
safety.
2.Order, but suspend on the condition that the person
complete the requirements of paragraph 1 of this subsection:
(a)A
fine of up to twelve thousand five hundred dollars.
(b)The
suspension of the person's driving privileges for one year.
3.Set a hearing date up to one year after the date of
sentencing. At the hearing the court shall do one of the following:
(a)If
the person has successfully completed the requirements described in paragraph 1
of this subsection, dismiss the penalties ordered under paragraph 2 of this
subsection.
(b)If the person has not successfully
completed the requirements described in paragraph 1 of this subsection, either:
(i)Grant the person an extension based
on good cause shown.
(ii)Impose the sentence prescribed by
paragraph 2 of this subsection. 
C.For the purposes of this section:
1."Public way" means a public street, alley,
road, highway or thoroughfare of any kind in this state that is used by the
public or that is open to the use of the public as a matter of right, for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
2."SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY" HAS THE SAME
MEANING PRESCRIBED IN SECTION 13-105.
3."Vulnerable user of a public way" means a
law enforcement officer, an emergency responder or a worker in a state highway
work zone as defined in section 28-652 while in the course of official duties
or a pedestrian, a person riding an animal or a person operating any of the
following on a public way, IN A crosswalk or ON A shoulder of the highway:
(a)A
farm tractor or implement of husbandry without an enclosed shell.
(b)A
skateboard.
(c)Roller
skates.
(d)In-line
skates.
(e)A
scooter.
(f)A
wheelchair.
(g)A
bicycle. END_STATUTE

