







REFERENCE TITLE: medical radiologic technology







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1096









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending sections
30672, 322801, 322803, 322804, 322812, 322815,
322816, 322817, 322824 and 322841, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to medical radiologic technology.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 30-672, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE30-672.Licensing and registration of sources of radiation;
exemptions
A.The agency by rule shall provide for general or
specific licensing of byproduct, source, special nuclear materials or
devices or equipment utilizing such materials.The rules shall
provide for amendment, suspension or revocation of the licenses.The
agency shall require from the applicant satisfactory evidence that the applicant
is using methods and techniques which
that are demonstrated to
be safe and that the applicant is familiar with the rules adopted by the agency
under section 30654, subsection B, paragraph 5 relative to uniform
radiation standards, total occupational radiation exposure norms, labels, signs
and symbols, storage, waste disposal and shipment of radioactive
materials.The agency may require that before the agency issues a
license the employees or other personnel of an applicant who may deal with
sources of radiation receive a course of instruction approved by the agency
concerning agency rules.The agency shall require that the
applicant's proposed equipment and facilities be adequate to protect health and
safety and that his the applicant's proposed
administrative controls over the use of the sources of radiation requested be
adequate to protect health and safety.
B.The agency may require registration or licensing
of other sources of radiation if it has been determined necessary to protect
public health or safety.
C.The agency may exempt certain sources of
radiation or kinds of uses or users from the licensing or registration
requirements set forth in this section when it finds that the exemption of such
sources of radiation or kinds of uses or users will not constitute a
significant risk to the health and safety of the public.
D.The agency shall not require persons licensed in
this state to practice as a dentist, chiropodist or veterinarian or licensed in
this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic or naturopathy naturopathic medicine to obtain any other
license for the use of an a diagnostic xray
machine, but these persons are governed by their own licensing acts.
E.Persons licensed by the federal communications
commission with respect to the activities for which they are licensed by that
commission are exempted from this chapter.
F.Rules adopted pursuant to this chapter may
provide for recognition of other state or federal licenses as the agency deems
desirable, subject to such registration requirements as the agency prescribes.
G.Any licenses issued by the agency shall state the
nature, use and extent of use of the source of radiation.If at any
time subsequent to the issuance of a license,
the licensee desires any change in the nature, use or extent, the
licensee shall seek an amendment or a new license under this section.
H.The agency shall prescribe by rule requirements
for financial security as a condition for licensure under this
article.The agency shall deposit all amounts posted, paid or
forfeited as financial security into the radiation regulatory and perpetual
care fund under section 30694.
I.Persons applying for licensure shall provide
notice to the city or town where the applicant proposes to operate as part of
the application process.
J.Any facility which that
provides diagnostic or screening mammography examinations by or
under the direction of a person exempted from further licensure under
subsection D of this section shall obtain certification by the
agency.The agency shall prescribe by rule the requirements of
certification in order to assure
ensure the accuracy and
safety of diagnostic and screening mammography. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-2801, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2801.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency" means the radiation regulatory
agency established under by section 30652.
2."Board" means the medical radiologic
technology board of examiners.
3."Bone
densitometry technologist" means a person who applies ionizing radiation
to a person's hips, spine or extremities through the use of a bone densitometry
machine.
3.4."Certificate"
means a certificate that is granted
and issued by the board.
4.5."Certified
technologist" means a person holding a certificate that is granted and issued by the board.
6."Computed
tomography technologist" means a person who applies ionizing radiation to
a human using a computed tomography machine for diagnostic purposes.
5.7."Direction"
means responsibility for and control of the application of ionizing radiation
to human beings for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
6.8."Ionizing
radiation" means gamma rays and xrays, alpha and beta particles,
high speed electrons, neutrons, protons and other nuclear particles or rays.
7.9."Leg"
means that part of the lower limb between the knee and the foot.
8.10."Licensed
practitioner" means a person who
is licensed or otherwise authorized by law to practice medicine,
dentistry, osteopathy, podiatry, chiropractic or naturopathic medicine in this
state.
11."mammographic
technologist" MEANS A PERSON WHO APPLIES IONIZING RADIATION TO THE BREASTS
OF A HUMAN BEING FOR DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSES.
12."Nuclear
medicine technologist" means a person who uses radiopharmaceutical agents
on humans for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes as set forth in rules ADOPTED
pursuant to section 322815.
9.13. "Practical
technologist in podiatry" means a person holding a practical technologist
in podiatry certificate THAT IS granted
and issued by the board.
10.14."Practical
technologist in podiatry certificate" means a certificate THAT IS issued to a person, other than a
licensed practitioner, who applies ionizing radiation to the foot and leg for
diagnostic purposes while under the specific direction of a licensed
practitioner.
11.15."Practical
technologist in radiology" means a person holding a practical technologist
in radiology certificate THAT IS granted
and issued by the board.
12.16."Practical
technologist in radiology certificate" means a certificate THAT IS issued to a person, other than a
licensed practitioner, who applies ionizing radiation to specific parts of the
human body for diagnostic purposes while under the specific direction of a
licensed practitioner.
17."RADIATION
THERAPY TECHNOLOGIST" MEANS A PERSON WHO USES RADIATION ON HUMANS FOR
THERAPEUTIC PURPOSES.
13.18."Radiologic
technologist" means a person who holds a certificate THAT IS issued by the board AND that allows that person to apply ionizing
radiation to individuals at the direction of a licensed practitioner for
general diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
14.19."Radiologic
technology" means the science and art of applying ionizing radiation to
human beings for general diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
15.20."Radiologic
technology certificate" means a certificate THAT IS issued in radiologic technology to a
person with at least twentyfour months of fulltime study or its
equivalent through an approved program and who has successfully completed an
examination by a national certifying body.
16.21."Radiologist"
means a licensed practitioner of medicine or osteopathy who has undertaken a
course of training which THAT meets the requirements for
admission to the examination of the American board of radiology or the American
osteopathic board of radiology.
17.22."Radiologist
assistant" means a person who holds a certificate pursuant to section
32-2819 AND who performs independent
advanced procedures in medical imaging and interventional radiology under the
guidance, directions, supervision and discretion of a licensed practitioner of
medicine or osteopathy specializing in radiology as set forth in section 322819
and the rules adopted pursuant to that section.
18.23."Unethical
professional conduct" means the following acts, whether occurring in this
state or elsewhere:
(a)THE intentional
betrayal of a professional confidence or intentional violation of a privileged
communication except as required by law.This subdivision does not
prevent members of the board from the exchange of information with the
radiologic licensing and disciplinary boards of other states, territories or
districts of the United States or foreign countries.
(b)THE use
of controlled substances as defined in section 362501, narcotic drugs,
dangerous drugs or marijuana as defined in section 133401 or hypnotic
drugs, derivatives or any compounds, mixtures or preparations that may be used
for producing hypnotic effects or the use
of alcohol to the extent that it affects the ability of the certificate or
permit holder to practice his profession.
(c)Using drugs for other than accepted therapeutic purposes.
(d)Gross malpractice.
(e)Acting or assuming to act as a member of the
board if this is not true.
(f)Procuring or attempting to procure a certificate
or license by fraud or misrepresentation.
(g)Having professional connection with or lending
one's name to an illegal practitioner of radiologic technology or any other
health profession.
(h)Offering, undertaking or agreeing to correct,
cure or treat a condition, disease, injury, ailment or infirmity by a secret
means, method, device or instrumentality.
(i)Refusing to divulge to the board, on reasonable
notice and demand, the means, method, device or instrumentality used in the
treatment of a condition, disease, injury, ailment or
infirmity.This subdivision shall not apply to communication between
a technologist or permit holder and a patient with reference to a disease,
injury, ailment or infirmity, or as to any knowledge obtained by personal
examination of the patient.
(j)Giving or receiving, or aiding or abetting the
giving or receiving, of rebates, either directly or indirectly.
(k)Knowingly making any false or fraudulent
statement, written or oral, in connection with the practice of radiologic
technology.
(l)Refusal, revocation or suspension of a
certificate or license by any other state, territory, district or country for
reasons that relate to the person's ability to safely and skillfully practice
radiologic technology or to any act of unprofessional conduct.
(m)Any conduct or practice which that
does or would constitute a danger to the health of the patient or
the public.
(n)Obtaining a fee by fraud or misrepresentation or
willfully wilfully or intentionally filing a fraudulent
claim with a third party for services rendered or to be rendered to a patient.
(o)Employing uncertified persons to perform or
aiding and abetting uncertified persons in the performance of work which that can be done legally only by certified
persons.
(p)Violating or attempting to violate, directly or
indirectly, or assisting or abetting the violation of or conspiring to violate the provisions of this chapter or
a rule adopted by the board.
19.24."Unlimited
practical technologist in radiology" means a person holding an unlimited
practical technologist in radiology certificate that is granted and issued by the board.
20.25."Unlimited
practical technologist in radiology certificate" means a certificate that was issued to a person in
1977 or 1978, other than a licensed practitioner, who applies ionizing
radiation to the human body for diagnostic purposes while under the specific
direction of a licensed practitioner. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-2803, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2803.Radiation regulation agency; rules
A.The director of the radiation regulatory agency may, after consultation and with
the approval of the board and after notice and public hearing, may adopt rules as may be needed to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.The rules shall include, but not be
limited to:
1.Minimum standards of training and experience for
persons to be certified pursuant to this chapter and procedures for examining
applicants for certification.
2.Provisions identifying the types of applications
of ionizing radiation for a practical
technologist in podiatry, practical technologist in radiology, and
practical technologist in bone
densitometry, radiologic technologist, radiation therapy technologist, mammographic technologist,
nuclear medicine technologist, bone densitometry technologist, computed
tomography technologist, radiologist assistant, physician assistant and any new
radiologic modality technologist and those minimum standards of
education and training to be met by each type of applicant.
B.Rules adopted pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
2 of this section
establishing minimum standards of education and training to be met by practical
technologists technologist in podiatry
applicants shall be approved or proposed by a joint committee on education,
training and examination comprised
composed of an equal
number of representatives from the medical
radiologic technology board of examiners and the state board of podiatry
examiners.The medical
radiologic technology board of examiners shall determine the total
membership of the committee, and the medical
radiologic technology board of examiners and the state board of podiatry examiners shall
appoint their respective representatives.
C.The medical
radiologic technology board of examiners may propose to the agency
standards as may be appropriate for carrying out the purposes of this
chapter.In the case of proposing to the agency standards governing
practical technologists in podiatry,
the medical radiologic technology
board of examiners shall
consult with the state
board of podiatry examiners. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 32-2804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2804.School approval; standards; considerations
A.The board may approve a school of radiologic
technology as maintaining a satisfactory standard if its course of study:
1.Is for a period of not less than twentyfour
months of fulltime study or its equivalent and is accredited by the
committee on allied health accreditation or meets or exceeds the standards of
this chapter.
2.Includes not less than four hundred hours of
classroom work, including
radiation protection, xray physics, radiographic techniques, processing
techniques, nursing procedures, anatomy and physiology, radiographic
positioning, radiation therapy and professional ethics.
3.Includes not less than one thousand eight hundred
hours devoted to clinical experience.
4.Includes demonstrations, discussions, seminars
and supervised practice.
5.Includes not less than eighty hours of regularly
scheduled supervised film critiques.
B.An approved school of radiologic technology may
be operated by a medical or educational institution or other public or private
agency or institution and, for the purpose of providing the requisite clinical
experience, shall be affiliated with one or more hospitals that, in the opinion
of the board, are likely to provide this experience.
C.In approving a school of radiologic technology,
the board shall consider the standards adopted by appropriate professional
organizations, including the joint review committee on education in radiologic
technology, the American medical
association, the American osteopathic association, the American
college of radiology and the American osteopathic college of radiology, and may accept the certification of a school
of radiologic technology or the accreditation of a hospital to provide
requisite clinical experience, if the board finds that certification or
accreditation was granted on the basis of standards that will afford the same
protection to the public as the standards provided by this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 32-2812, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2812.Applications for certificate; qualifications; fee;
exceptions
A.An applicant for a certificate shall submit an
application for certification or an application for examination for
certification, accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of sixty
dollars.The application for certification fee may be prorated
quarterly over the certification period. An applicant who has practiced
radiography without certification shall pay a prorated fee retroactively to the
earliest date of uncertified practice. The fee for a replacement certificate
is ten dollars.The application for examination fee is seventy
dollars and shall not be prorated. An application shall be verified by oath or
affirmation and shall contain information that the applicant:
1.Is at least eighteen years of age.
2.Is of good moral character.
3.Has successfully completed or obtained:
(a) In the case of an application for radiologic technologist, radiation therapy technologist or nuclear
medicine technologist certification, a fouryear course of study in a secondary school
approved by the board or an equivalent board approved course of study in
addition to a course of study at a school of radiologic
technology that is approved
by the board or an outofstate
school of radiologic technology that is approved by the joint review committee
on education in radiologic technology, the American registry of radiologic
technologists or the nuclear medicine technology certification board.
(b)In the case of an application for practical technologist in
podiatry certification, practical
technologist in bone densitometry certification and practical
technologist in radiology certification, high school or its equivalent as
determined by the medical radiologic
technology board of
examiners with the advice of the state board of education, and
satisfactorily meets the basic requisites determined by the medical radiologic technology board of examiners pursuant to
section 322803.
(c)In the case of an application for radiologist assistant
certification, a baccalaureate degree or postbaccalaureate certificate from an
advanced academic program that encompasses a nationally recognized radiologist
assistant curriculum that includes a radiologist-directed clinical
preceptorship. An applicant for certification before April 1, 2009 is not
required to have a baccalaureate degree or postbaccalaureate certificate, but
must have completed an advanced academic program that encompasses a nationally
recognized radiologist assistant curriculum that includes a
radiologist-directed clinical preceptorship.
B.If the application is in proper form and it
appears that the applicant meets the eligibility requirements, the applicant
shall be notified of the time and place of the next examination.
C.The board may accept, in lieu of its own
examination, a valid
certificate issued on the basis of an examination by a certificategranting
body recognized by the American medical
association or the American osteopathic association, board or a certificate,
registration or license issued by another state if that state's standards for
certification, registration or licensure are satisfactory to the board.
D.The board may deny a certificate to an applicant
who has committed an act or engaged in conduct in any jurisdiction that
resulted in a disciplinary action against the applicant or that would
constitute grounds for disciplinary action under this chapter.
E.The board or chairman of the board may designate
a representative to approve or deny applications for certification. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
32-2815, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2815.Additional board duties; bone densitometry certification;
nuclear medicine; continuing education
A.The board shall adopt rules regarding the
certification of practical technologists in bone densitometry to allow the
certificate holder to apply ionizing radiation to a person's extremities
through the use of a bone densitometry machine. The rules shall prescribe:
1.The minimum education and training qualifications
for certification.The qualifications prescribed by the board shall
allow a person who does not meet the education and training requirements of a
radiologic technologist or a practical technologist in radiology to obtain a
certificate as a practical technologist in bone densitometry.
2.The application and renewal fees.
3.The definition of a practical technologist in
bone densitometry.
B.Subsection A of this section does not prohibit a radiologic
technologist or a practical technologist in radiology from operating a bone densitometry machine.
C.Beginning
on January 1, 2004, A person who wishes to practice as a nuclear
medicine technologist must apply to the board for certification as prescribed
by the board by rule. The board shall adopt rules to establish minimum
educational and training requirements for nuclear medicine
technologists.For the
purposes of this subsection, "nuclear medicine technologist" means a
person who uses radiopharmaceutical agents on humans for diagnostic or
therapeutic purposes.
D.The board shall adopt rules to prescribe the
following minimum continuing education requirements for the renewal of the
following certificates:
1.Practical technologist in podiatry, two hours
every two years.
2.Practical technologist in radiology, six hours
every two years.
3.Practical technologist in bone densitometry, one hour two hours every two years.
4.Unlimited practical technologist in radiology,
twentyfour hours every two years.
5.Nuclear medicine technologist, twentyfour
hours every two years.
6.Radiologist
assistant, fifty hours every two years.
7.Radiologic
technologist, twentyfour hours every two years.
8.Radiation
therapy technologist, twentyfour hours every two years.
E.Beginning
on August 1, 2004, The board may require an applicant for renewal
to document compliance with the appropriate continuing education requirements
of subsection D of this section.
END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
32-2816, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2816.Certificates; terms; registration; renewal; cancellation;
waiver
A.Except as provided in section 32-4301, if a
certificate holder's last name begins with a letter that falls between A
through M, the certificate expires on the last day of the certificate holder's birthday birth month in every even numbered evennumbered year.All other
certificates expire on the last day of
the certificate holder's birthday birth month in every odd numbered oddnumbered year.The board
shall notify a certificate holder thirty days before the expiration date of the
certificate.
B.The medical
radiologic technology board of examiners may renew a certificate for two
years on payment of a renewal fee in an amount established by the board
pursuant to section 322803 and submission of a renewal application
containing information the board requires to show that the applicant for
renewal is a technologist in good standing. The applicant for renewal shall
also present evidence satisfactory to the medical radiologic technology board of examiners of having
completed twentyfour hours of
the required continuing
education in radiologic technology within the preceding two years. If a
radiologic technologist is certified by the American registry of radiologic
technologists or nuclear medicine
technology certification board, that person must satisfy the
continuing education requirements of this subsection by providing the medical radiologic technology board
of examiners with
evidence of the technologist's good standing and current certification with
that registry. 
C.A certificate holder who fails to renew the
certificate on or before the certificate
holder's birthday
certificate's expiration as prescribed in subsection A of this
section shall pay a penalty fee of fifty dollars for late renewal.
D.A certificate holder who does not renew a
certificate within thirty days after the certificate expires and who continues
the active practice of radiologic technology without adequate cause
satisfactory to the board is subject to censure, reprimand or denial of right
to renew the certificate pursuant to section 322821.
E.On the request of a certificate holder in good
standing, the board shall cancel a certificate.
F.The board shall waive the renewal fee if a
certificate holder submits an affidavit to the board stating that the
certificate holder is retired from the practice of radiologic technology or
wishes to be placed on inactive status.A retired or inactive
technologist who practices is subject to the same penalties imposed pursuant to
this chapter on a person who practices radiologic technology without a
certificate.
G.The board may reinstate a technologist on retired
or inactive status on payment of the renewal fee pursuant to subsection B of this
section. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 32-2817, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2817.Use of title; display of certificate or permit
A.A person holding a certificate may use the title
"certified radiologic
technologist,", "certified nuclear medicine
technologist", "certified radiation therapy technologist",
"certified computed tomography technologist", "certified
mammographic technologist", "certified radiologist assistant",
"certified practical
technologist in podiatry",
"certified practical technologist in bone densitometry"
or "certified practical
technologist in radiology",
as applicable.No other person shall be entitled to use such titles
or title or letters after such person's name that indicates or implies that
such person is a certified technologist or to represent himself the
person in any way, whether orally or in writing, expressly or by
implication, as being so certified.
B.Every technologist or special permit holder shall
display a certificate or permit at the technologist's or permit holder's place
of employment. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 32-2824, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2824.Inspections; investigations
A.The board or its duly authorized representatives
may enter during scheduled work hours on private or public property for the purpose
of:
1.Assuring
ensuring that only board certified boardcertified individuals or
individuals exempt from board certification are operating ionizing radiation
machines.
2.Determining whether a certified individual is
practicing beyond the scope of his
the person's certificate.
3.Determining whether a certified individual has
violated the provisions of this chapter.
4.Auditing ionizing radiation logbooks.
B.The board may enter areas under the jurisdiction
of the federal government only with its permission.
C.The board
on its own motion, or the executive director if delegated by the board, may
investigate any evidence that appears to show the existence of any of the
causes or grounds for disciplinary action as provided in section 322821,
subsection A. The board may investigate any complaint that alleges the
existence of any of the causes or grounds for disciplinary action as provided
in section 322821, subsection A. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 32-2841, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2841.Mammographic technologists; certification; computed
tomography certification; renewal
A.A person who wishes to perform diagnostic or
screening mammography as defined in section 30651 shall obtain a
mammographic technologist certificate from the board.A person who wishes to perform computed
tomography shall obtain a computed tomography technologist certificate from the
board.The board shall issue a certificate to an
applicant who:
1.Pays a prorated
twenty dollar application fee.
2.Holds a current radiologic technologist technology certificate issued by the board.
3.For a
mammographic certification, completes the training and education requirements of
subsection B of this section and passes
an examination as prescribed in subsection D of this section.
4.For a
computed tomography technologist certification, provides documentation of two
years of experience in computed tomography and completion of twelve hours of
computed tomography specific education or passes an examination
as prescribed in subsection C D of this section.
B.To satisfy the education requirements of
subsection A of this section, an applicant for certification shall complete forty hours of didactic
instruction and at least one hundred sixty hours of clinical instruction taught
by a facility accredited by the American college of radiology or licensed by
this state.Courses shall be taught by instructors who have
completed at least four hundred mammograms in the previous year. Clinical
instruction shall be competency based and positions that cannot be tested on
patients shall be tested through simulations.Didactic and clinical
instruction shall include the following:
1.The anatomy
and physiology of the breast.
2.Classification
of breast tissue.
3.Epidemiology
of the breast.
4.Methods to
detect breast cancer.
5.Sources of
information regarding breast cancer.
6.The
influence of technical factors.
7.Positioning
of the breast.
8.Film and
image evaluation and critique.
9.Radiation
biology and radiation protection.
10.Quality
assurance methods.
11.The
physics of mammography.
shall meet the initial training and education requirements of the mammography
quality standards act regulations for quality standards of mammographic
technologists, 21 Code of Federal Regulations section 900.12.
C.The board shall issue a student
mammography permit to a person who is in training and meets the requirement of
subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section if the applicant also provides the
board with verification of employment and the name of the radiologist who
agrees to be responsible for the applicant's supervision and training. A
student mammography permit is valid for one year from the date it is issued and
may be renewed one time for an additional six months. If the holder completes
all of the requirements of subsection A of this section within the permitted
period, the board shall issue a mammographic technologist certificate. The
mammographic technologist certificate shall be renewed as prescribed under
subsection E of this section.
C.D.To
satisfy the examination requirements of this section an applicant shall pass an
examination in mammography or computed tomography
administered by either
the board or, by the American registry of radiologic
technologists in lieu of
its own examination, the board may accept a certificate issued on the basis of
an examination by a certificategranting body recognized by the board.Examinations administered by the board shall
use the same grading standards established by the American registry of
radiologic technologists examination.
D.e.Except
as provided in section 32-4301, a certificate issued under this section is
valid for two years.If a certificate holder's last name begins with
a letter that falls between A through M, the certificate expires on the last day of the certificate
holder's birthday birth month in every evennumbered
year. All other certificates expire on the last day of the certificate holder's birthday birth month in every oddnumbered
year. The board shall notify a certificate holder thirty days before the
expiration date of the certificate. An applicant for renewal of this a
mammographic technologist certificate shall present evidence satisfactory to the board of having
completed eight hours of continuing education in mammography within the
preceding two years meet
the continuing education requirements of the mammography quality standards act
regulations for quality standards of mammographic technologists, 21 Code of
Federal Regulations section 900.12. If a radiologic technologist
is certified by the American registry of radiologic technologists, that person
must satisfy the continuing education requirements of this subsection by
providing the board with evidence of the technologist's good standing and
current certification with that registry. The applicant shall also pay a twenty
dollar renewal fee to the board.
E.f.The board shall prorate fees for:
1.A certificate renewed before August 22, 2002.
2.a
new certificate for the remaining full calendar months of the respective group
to which the certificate is assigned.
F.The board
shall issue a temporary certificate to a person who meets the requirements of
subsection A, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this section if that person also
provides the board with verification of employment and the name of the
radiologist who agrees to be responsible for the applicant's supervision and
training.A temporary certificate is valid for thirty days from the
date it is issued and may be renewed one time for an additional six months. If
the holder completes all of the requirements of subsection A of this section
within that time, the board shall issue a regular certificate. This certificate
is valid for two years from the date the board issued the temporary certificate
and shall be renewed as prescribed under subsection D of this section.
G.A person or facility that employs a person
certified under this section shall report any suspected violations of section
322821 to the board. The board shall investigate the complaint and act
as prescribed under section 322821.If in the course of its
investigation the board determines that a person regulated by another regulatory
agency of this state may have violated that agency's laws, the board shall
report the violation to the other agency for disciplinary action. END_STATUTE

