







REFERENCE TITLE: ASRS; contributions; adjustments







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1144









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending section
38738, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the ARizona state
retirement system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-738, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-738.Adjustment and refund
A.If more than the correct amount of employer or
member contributions is paid into ASRS by an employer through a mistake of
fact, ASRS shall return those contributions to the employer if the employer
requests return of the contributions through
an employer credit or within one year after the date of
overpayment by check on request of the
employer.ASRS
shall not pay an employer earnings attributable to excess contributions but
shall reduce the amount returned to an employer pursuant to this section by the
amount of losses attributable to the excess contributions. If more than the correct amount of employer
or member contributions is paid into ASRS by an employer through a mistake of
law, ASRS shall return those contributions to the employer if the employer
requests return of the contributions through an employer credit.
B.If less than the correct amount of employer or
member contributions is paid into ASRS by an employer, the following apply:
1.The member shall pay an amount that is equal to
the amount that would have been paid in member contributions for the period in
question.The member's
For active members, payments shall be made as provided in section
38747. For members who are
inactive, retired or on longterm disability, payments shall be made
using aftertax income and a personal check, cashier's check or money
order. If the member does not make the payment within ninety
days of after being notified by ASRS that the
employer has paid all amounts due from the employer, the unpaid amount accrues
interest until the amount is paid in full. The member is responsible for
payment of the unpaid amount and interest. The interest rate is the interest
rate assumption that is approved by the board for actuarial equivalency for the
period in question to the date payment is received.
2.If the member contributions to ASRS made pursuant
to this subsection exceed the limits prescribed in section 38747,
subsection E when taking into account other annual additions of the member for
the limitation year, the amount to be paid by the member shall be adjusted as
provided in section 38747.For the purposes of this subsection paragraph, "limitation year" has
the same meaning prescribed in section 38769.
3.The employer shall pay to ASRS an amount equal to
the amount that would have been paid in employer contributions for the period
in question together with accumulated interest that would have accrued on both
the employer and member contributions due. If the employer does not remit full
payment of all employer contributions and all interest due within ninety days of after being notified by ASRS of the amount
due, the unpaid amount accrues interest until the amount is paid in full. The
interest rate is the interest rate assumption that is approved by the board for
actuarial equivalency for the period in question to the date payment is
received.
4.On satisfaction of the requirements of this
subsection, the member's salary history on the records of ASRS shall be
adjusted and any additional service credits acquired by the member shall be
reinstated.
5.If the member retires before all contributions
are made pursuant to this subsection, the member's benefits shall be calculated
only based on the contributions actually made.
6.Annual additions shall be determined as provided
in section 38747, subsection O.
7.The initiator of the request for correction of
salary history and service credits on records of ASRS is responsible for
providing credible evidence of past employment and compensation to ASRS in a
form or forms that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that a period of
employment occurred under circumstances that made the employee eligible for
membership in ASRS during that period. A determination of eligibility by ASRS
may be appealed to the ASRS board in a manner prescribed by the board.
8.A member
who previously received a return of contributions pursuant to section 38740
may receive an adjustment of employer contributions or service credits pursuant
to this section only for qualifying employment and compensation that occurred
after the member's most recent membership date.
C.Subsection B of this section applies to eligible
verified service that occurred less than or equal to fifteen years before the
date the initiator of the request for correction of salary history and service
credits on the records of ASRS provides ASRS with credible evidence in writing
that less than the correct amount of contributions were
was paid into ASRS or ASRS otherwise determines that less than
the correct amount of contributions were was made.
D.Eligible verified service that is more than
fifteen years before the date the initiator of the request for correction of
salary history and service credits on the records of ASRS provides ASRS with
credible evidence in writing that less than the correct amount of contributions
were was paid into ASRS or ASRS otherwise
determines that less than the correct amount of contributions were
was made is considered public service credit. The member may
purchase this service pursuant to section 38743. END_STATUTE

