







REFERENCE TITLE: capital punishment study committee







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1127









Introduced by
Senators
  Bradley, Dalessandro, Farley, Hobbs





AN ACT

establishing the
capital punishment study committee.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Capital punishment study committee; duties; report;
delayed repeal
A.A capital punishment study committee is established
consisting of the following members:
1.Four members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, not more than two
of whom are members of the same political party.
2.Four members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate, not more than two of whom are members of the same
political party.
3.The attorney general or the attorney general's
designee.
4.One supreme court justice who is appointed by the
chief justice of the supreme court.
5.Two superior court judges who have experience
trying capital cases and who are appointed by the chief justice of the supreme
court, one of whom is from a county with a population of two million persons or
more and one of whom is from a county with a population of less than two
million persons.
6.Two county prosecutors who are appointed by the
governor, one of whom is from a county with a population of two million persons
or more and one of whom is from a county with a population of less than two
million persons.
7.Two public defenders who are appointed by the
governor, one of whom is from a county with a population of two million persons
or more and one of whom is from a county with a population of less than two
million persons.
8.One private defense attorney who has experience
trying capital cases and who is appointed by the governor.
9.One victim representative who is appointed by the
governor.
10.One prisoner advocate who is appointed by the
governor.
B.Members of the committee are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
C.A majority of the members of the committee
constitutes a quorum.
D.The committee members shall select a chairperson
from among its members.
E.The committee shall conduct a thorough study of
all matters relating to the administration of capital punishment and shall
determine whether the administration of capital punishment is consistent with
constitutional principles and is administered in a rational, fair and accurate
manner in this state.
F.The committee shall submit a report of its
findings and recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate and
the speaker of the house of representatives on or before December 1, 2016 and
shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
G.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2016.

