







REFERENCE TITLE: acupuncture board; licensure;
  qualifications







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1105









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending section
323924, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the acupuncture board of
examiners.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-3924, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-3924.Qualifications for licensure
To receive a license to practice acupuncture pursuant to this
chapter, a person shall submit an application as prescribed by the board. The
applicant shall disclose in an application for initial licensure or relicensure all other active and past
professional health care licenses and certificates issued to the applicant in
this state or by another state, district or territory of the United States.
The application shall document to the board's satisfaction that the applicant
has successfully completed a clean needle technique course approved by the
board and meets all of the following:
1.Has either:
(a)Been certified in acupuncture by the national
certification commission for acupuncture and oriental medicine, or its
successor organization, or another certifying body or examination that is
recognized by the board.
(b)Passed the point location module, foundations of
oriental medicine module, biomedicine module and acupuncture module offered by
the national certification commission for acupuncture and oriental medicine.
(c)Been licensed by another state with
substantially similar standards, and has not had certification or licensure
revoked.
2.Has graduated from or completed training in a
boardapproved program of acupuncture with a minimum of one thousand
eight hundred fifty hours of training that includes at least eight hundred
hours of boardapproved clinical training.
3.Beginning July 1, 2016, has submitted a full set
of fingerprints to the board for the purpose of obtaining a state and federal
criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law 92544.
The department of public safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the
federal bureau of investigation. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retroactivity
Section 323924, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by
this act, applies retroactively to from and after June 30, 2016.

