







REFERENCE TITLE: school districts; adjacent ways;
  verification







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1117









Introduced by
Senators
  Dial: Biggs





AN ACT

amending sections
15995 and 152002, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school
finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-995, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-995.Special district assessment for adjacent ways by school
district
A.The governing board of a school district may
contract for constructing, maintaining or otherwise improving any public way
adjacent to any parcel of land owned by the school district or leased for
school purposes by the school district, or an intersection of any public way
adjoining a quarter block in which the parcel of land is situated, and for the
construction of sidewalks, sewers, utility lines, roadways and other related
improvements in or along such streets and intersections, and to pay for such
improvements by the levy of a special assessment upon on
the taxable property in the school district.A school
district shall not use any portion of the monies generated from the special
assessment for any construction, maintenance or other improvements to the
school district's property except improvements necessary to assure ensure
the safe ingress to and egress from public school property
directly adjacent to the public way for buses and fire
equipment.The assessment shall be made a part of the itemized
statement that is regularly
filed with the county school superintendent and showing that
shows the amount of monies needed for the expenses of schools
within the school district for the ensuing year. The assessment shall not exceed the amount of the project
cost estimate for the adjacent ways project.The assessment shall
not be conducted unless the school facilities board validates all of the
following:
1.The
project that is proposed to be funded by the assessment is in compliance with
state laws relating to adjacent ways projects.
2.The
project cost estimate for the proposed adjacent ways project matches the
adjacent ways proposal submitted by the school district.
3.The
proposal selected by the school district does not contain additional work that
is not listed in the adjacent ways proposal submitted by the school district.
B.If any property that is owned by a school district or leased
by a school district for school purposes from any city or county, the state or
the United States is included within the assessment district to be assessed to
pay the costs and expenses of any public improvements initiated by a city, as in order to make the assessments thereon
payable by the city in which the improvement is initiated, the governing board
may contract with the municipality or its improvement district to reimburse it
for the amount of the assessment against the property and to pay the amount so
contracted for by the levy of a special assessment as provided by subsection A
of this section.
C.After the proposed adjacent ways project is validated by the
school facilities board pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
governing board of the school district shall follow the truth in taxation
notice and hearing requirements prescribed in section 15905.01,
subsection B.
D.The portion of the primary tax rate to fund
adjacent ways as provided in this section shall not be included in the
computation of additional state aid for education as prescribed in section 15972.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-2002, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2002.Powers and duties; executive director; staffing; report
A.The school facilities board shall:
1.Make assessments of school facilities and
equipment deficiencies and approve the distribution of grants as appropriate.
2.Maintain a database of school facilities to
administer the building renewal grant fund and new school facilities
formula.The facilities listed in the database must include all
buildings that are owned by school districts.The school facilities
board shall ensure that the database is updated on at least an annual
basis.Each school district shall report to the school facilities
board no later than September 1 of each year information as required by the
school facilities board for the administration of the building renewal grant
fund and computation of new school facilities formula distributions, including
the nature and cost of major repairs, renovations or physical improvements to
or replacement of building systems or equipment that were made in the previous
year and that were paid for either with local monies or monies provided by the
school facilities board from the building renewal grant fund.Each
school district shall report any school or school buildings that have been
closed, that have been leased to another entity or that operate as a charter
school. The school facilities board may review or audit the information, or
both, to confirm the information submitted by a school district.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a school district
converts space that is listed in the database maintained pursuant to this
paragraph to space that will be used for administrative purposes, the school
district is responsible for any costs associated with the conversion,
maintenance and replacement of that space. If a building is significantly
upgraded or remodeled, the school facilities board shall adjust the age of that
school facility in the database as follows:
(a)Determine the
building capacity value as follows:
(i)Multiply the
student capacity of the building by the per pupil square foot capacity
established by section 152041.
(ii)Multiply the product determined in item (i) of
this subdivision by the cost per square foot established by section 152041.
(b)Divide the cost of the renovation by the
building capacity value determined in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(c)Multiply the quotient determined in subdivision
(b) of this paragraph by the currently listed age of the building in the
database.
(d)Subtract the product determined in subdivision
(c) of this paragraph from the currently listed age of the building in the
database, rounded to the nearest whole number.If the result is a
negative number, use zero.
3.Inspect school buildings at least once every five
years to ensure compliance with the building adequacy standards prescribed in
section 152011 and routine preventative maintenance guidelines as
prescribed in this section with respect to construction of new buildings and
maintenance of existing buildings. The school facilities board shall randomly
select twenty school districts every thirty months and inspect them pursuant to
this paragraph.
4.Review and approve student population projections
submitted by school districts to determine to what extent school districts are
entitled to monies to construct new facilities pursuant to section 152041.
The board shall make a final determination within six months of the receipt of
an application by a school district for monies from the new school facilities
fund.
5.Certify that plans for new school facilities meet
the building adequacy standards prescribed in section 152011.
6.Develop prototypical elementary and high school
designs. The board shall review the design differences between the schools
with the highest academic productivity scores and the schools with the lowest
academic productivity scores. The board shall also review the results of a
valid and reliable survey of parent quality rating in the highest performing
schools and the lowest performing schools in this state.The survey
of parent quality rating shall be administered by the department of
education.The board shall consider the design elements of the
schools with the highest academic productivity scores and parent quality
ratings in the development of elementary and high school designs. The board
shall develop separate school designs for elementary, middle and high schools
with varying pupil capacities.
7.Develop application forms, reporting forms and
procedures to carry out the requirements of this article.
8.Review and approve or reject requests submitted
by school districts to take actions pursuant to section 15341,
subsection G.
9.Submit electronically an annual report on or
before December 15 to the speaker of the house of representatives, the
president of the senate, the superintendent of public instruction, the
secretary of state and the governor that includes the following information:
(a)A detailed description of the amount of monies
distributed by the school facilities board in the previous fiscal year.
(b)A list of each capital project that received
monies from the school facilities board during the previous fiscal year, a
brief description of each project that was funded and a summary of the board's
reasons for the distribution of monies for the project.
(c)A summary of the findings and conclusions of the
building maintenance inspections conducted pursuant to this article during the
previous fiscal year.
(d)A summary of the findings of common design
elements and characteristics of the highest performing schools and the lowest
performing schools based on academic productivity, including the results of the
parent quality rating survey.For the purposes of this subdivision,
"academic productivity" means academic year advancement per calendar
year as measured with studentlevel data using the statewide nationally
standardized normreferenced achievement test.
10.On or before December 1 of each year, report
electronically to the joint committee on capital review the amounts necessary
to fulfill the requirements of sections 152022 and 152041 for the
following three fiscal years.In developing the amounts necessary
for this report, the school facilities board shall use the most recent average
daily membership data available. On request from the board, the department of
education shall make available the most recent average daily membership data
for use in calculating the amounts necessary to fulfill the requirements of
section 152041 for the following three fiscal years. The board shall
provide copies of the report to the president of the senate, the speaker of the
house of representatives and the governor.
11.Adopt minimum school facility adequacy
guidelines to provide the minimum quality and quantity of school buildings and
the facilities and equipment necessary and appropriate to enable pupils to
achieve the educational goals of the Arizona state schools for the deaf and the
blind. The school facilities board shall establish minimum school facility
adequacy guidelines applicable to the Arizona state schools for the deaf and
the blind.
12.In each evennumbered year, report
electronically to the joint committee on capital review the amounts necessary
to fulfill the requirements of section 152041 for the Arizona state
schools for the deaf and the blind for the following two fiscal years. The
Arizona state schools for the deaf and the blind shall incorporate the findings
of the report in any request for new school facilities monies.Any
monies provided to the Arizona state schools for the deaf and the blind for new
school facilities are subject to legislative appropriation.
13.On or before June 15 of each year, submit
electronically detailed information regarding demographic assumptions, a
proposed construction schedule and new school construction cost estimates for
individual projects approved in the current fiscal year and expected project
approvals for the upcoming fiscal year to the joint committee on capital review
for its review. A copy of the report shall also be submitted electronically to
the governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting.The joint
legislative budget committee staff, the governor's office of strategic planning
and budgeting staff and the school facilities board staff shall agree on the
format of the report.
14.Every two years, provide school districts with
information on improving and maintaining the indoor environmental quality in
school buildings.
15.On or before December 31 of each year, report to
the joint legislative budget committee on all class B bond approvals by school
districts in that year.Each school district shall report to the
school facilities board on or before December 1 of each year information
required by the school facilities board for the report prescribed in this
paragraph.
16.Validate
proposed adjacent ways projects submitted by school districts as prescribed in
section 15995.
B.The school facilities board may contract for the
following services in compliance with the procurement practices prescribed in
title 41, chapter23:
1.Private services.
2.Construction project management services.
3.Assessments for school buildings to determine if
the buildings have outlived their useful life pursuant to section 152041,
subsection G.
4.Services related to land acquisition and
development of a school site.
C.The governor shall appoint an executive director
of the school facilities board pursuant to section 38211.The
executive director is eligible to receive compensation as determined pursuant
to section 38611 and may hire and fire necessary staff subject to title
41, chapter 4, article 4 and as approved by the legislature in the
budget.The executive director shall have demonstrated competency in
school finance, facilities design or facilities management, either in private
business or government service.The executive director serves at the
pleasure of the governor. The staff of the school facilities board is exempt
from title 41, chapter 4, articles 5 and 6. The executive director:
1.Shall analyze applications for monies submitted
to the board by school districts.
2.Shall assist the board in developing forms and
procedures for the distribution and review of applications and the distribution
of monies to school districts.
3.May review or audit, or both, the expenditure of
monies by a school district for deficiencies corrections and new school
facilities.
4.Shall assist the board in the preparation of the
board's annual report.
5.Shall research and provide reports on issues of
general interest to the board.
6.May aid school districts in the development of
reasonable and costeffective school designs in order to avoid statewide
duplicated efforts and unwarranted expenditures in the area of school design.
7.May assist school districts in facilitating the
development of multijurisdictional facilities.
8.Shall assist the board in any other appropriate
matter or method as directed by the members of the board.
9.Shall establish procedures to ensure compliance
with the notice and hearing requirements prescribed in section 15905.
The notice and hearing procedures adopted by the board shall include the
requirement, with respect to the board's consideration of any application filed
after July 1, 2001 or after December 31 of the year in which the property
becomes territory in the vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military
facility as defined in section 288461 for monies to fund the
construction of new school facilities proposed to be located in territory in
the vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility, that the
military airport receive notification of the application by first class mail at
least thirty days before any hearing concerning the application.
10.May expedite any request for monies in which the
local match was not obtained for a project that received preliminary approval
by the state board for school capital facilities.
11.Shall expedite any request for monies in which
the school district governing board submits an application that shows an
immediate need for a new school facility.
12.Shall make a determination as to administrative
completion within one month after the receipt of an application by a school
district for monies from the new school facilities fund.
13.Shall provide technical support to school
districts as requested by school districts in connection with the construction
of new school facilities and the maintenance of existing school facilities and
may contract directly with construction project managers pursuant to subsection
B of this section. This paragraph does not restrict a school district from
contracting with a construction project manager using district or state
resources.
D.When appropriate, the school facilities board
shall review and use the statewide school facilities inventory and needs
assessment conducted by the joint committee on capital review and issued in
July, 1995.
E.The school facilities board shall contract with
one or more private building inspectors to complete an initial assessment of
school facilities and equipment and shall inspect each school building in this
state at least once every five years to ensure compliance with section 152011.
A copy of the inspection report, together with any recommendations for building
maintenance, shall be provided to the school facilities board and the governing
board of the school district.
F.The school
facilities board may consider appropriate combinations of facilities or uses in
making assessments of and curing deficiencies pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 1 of this section and in certifying plans for new school facilities
pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section.
G.The board shall not award any monies to fund new
facilities that are financed by class A bonds that are issued by the school
district.
H.The board shall not distribute monies to a school
district for replacement or repair of facilities if the costs associated with
the replacement or repair are covered by insurance or a performance or payment
bond.
I.The board may contract for construction services
and materials that are necessary to correct existing deficiencies in school
district facilities. The board may procure the construction services necessary
pursuant to this subsection by any method, including constructionmanageratrisk,
designbuild, designbidbuild or jobordercontracting
as provided by title 41, chapter 23. The construction planning and services
performed pursuant to this subsection are exempt from section 41791.01.
J.The school facilities board may enter into
agreements with school districts to allow school facilities board staff and
contractors access to school property for the purposes of performing the
construction services necessary pursuant to subsection I of this section.
K.Each school district shall develop routine
preventative maintenance guidelines for its facilities.The
guidelines shall include plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, special equipment and other systems
and for roofing systems shall recommend visual inspections performed by district
staff for signs of structural stress and weakness.The guidelines
shall be submitted to the school facilities board for review and
approval.If on inspection by the school facilities board it is
determined that a school district facility was inadequately maintained pursuant
to the school district's routine preventative maintenance guidelines, the
school district shall return the building to compliance with the school
district's routine preventative maintenance guidelines.
L.The school facilities board may temporarily
transfer monies between the capital reserve fund established by section 152003,
the emergency deficiencies correction fund established by section 152022
and the new school facilities fund established by section 152041 if all
of the following conditions are met:
1.The transfer is necessary to avoid a temporary
shortfall in the fund into which the monies are transferred.
2.The transferred monies are restored to the fund
where the monies originated as soon as practicable after the temporary shortfall
in the other fund has been addressed.
3.The school facilities board reports to the joint
committee on capital review the amount of and the reason for any monies
transferred.
M.After notifying each school district, and if a
written objection from the school district is not received by the school
facilities board within thirty days of the notification, the school facilities
board may access public utility company records of power, water, natural gas,
telephone and broadband usage to assemble consistent and accurate data on
utility consumption at school facilities to determine the effectiveness of
facility design, operation and maintenance measures intended to reduce energy
and water consumption and costs. Any public utility that provides service to a
school district in this state shall provide the data requested by the school
facilities board pursuant to this subsection.
N.The school facilities board shall not require a
common school district that provides instruction to pupils in grade nine to obtain
approval from the school facilities board to reconfigure its school
facilities.A common school district that provides instruction to
pupils in grade nine is not entitled to additional monies from the school
facilities board for facilities to educate pupils in grade nine. END_STATUTE

