







REFERENCE TITLE: executive clemency board; salary; duties







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1132









Introduced by
Senators
  Kavanagh, Driggs, Miranda; Representatives Meyer, Montenegro: Senators Begay,
  Burges; Representatives Gray, Lawrence, Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
31401 and 31402, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the board
of executive clemency.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 31-401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-401.Board of executive clemency; qualifications; appointment;
officers; quorum; meeting
A.The board of executive clemency is established
consisting of five members who are appointed by the governor pursuant to this
subsection and section 38211.
B.The members of the board shall be compensated on an hourly serve on a full-time basis and are not eligible for paid leave receive compensation as determined pursuant to section
38-611. Beginning from and after December 31, 2013, members of
the board are eligible for any benefits that are provided to state employees
pursuant to section 38651.A member who is acting as the executive director shall be
compensated pursuant to subsection K of this section. Each
member shall be appointed on the basis of broad professional or educational
qualifications and experience and shall have demonstrated an interest in the
state's correctional program.No more than two members from the same
professional discipline shall be members of the board at the same time.
C.Each member appointed to the board shall complete
a four week fourweek course relating to the duties
and activities of the board.The course shall be designed and
administered by the chairman of the board and shall be conducted by the office
of the board of executive clemency and the office of the attorney
general.The course shall include training in all statutes that
pertain to the board and participation in a decision making workshop.
D.Members shall be appointed for a term of five
years to expire on the third Monday in January of the appropriate year.
E.A member of the board may be removed by the governor
for cause.
F.The governor shall select a member of the board
as chairman.The chairman shall select other officers as are
advisable.The term of the chairman is two years, except that the
chairman may be removed as chairman at the pleasure of the governor.If
a board member's term expires while the member is serving as chairman, the
chair shall be deemed vacant and a new chairman shall be selected.
G.The board may adopt rules, not inconsistent with
law, as it deems proper for the conduct of its business.The board
may from time to time amend or change the rules and publish and distribute the
rules as provided by the administrative procedures act.
H.The board shall meet at least once a month at the
state prison and at other times or places as the board deems necessary.
I.The presence of three members of the board
constitutes a quorum, except that the chairman may designate that the presence
of two members of the board constitutes a quorum.
J.If two members of the board constitute a quorum
pursuant to subsection I of this section and the two members do not concur on
the action under consideration, the chairman of the board, if the chairman is
not one of the members who constituted the quorum and after reviewing the
information considered by the two members, shall cast the deciding
vote.If the chairman of the board is one of the two members
constituting a quorum at a hearing under subsection I of this section, and
there is not concurrence on the action under consideration, the action fails.
K.The board shall employ an executive director
whose compensation shall be determined pursuant to section 38611. The chairman of the board may act as the
executive director. The
executive director serves at the pleasure of the board and reports to the board
through the chairman of the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 31-402, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-402.Powers of board; powers and duties of governor; powers and
duties of executive director
A.For all persons who committed felony offenses
before January 1, 1994, the board of executive clemency shall have exclusive
power to pass upon on and recommend reprieves,
commutations, paroles and pardons.No reprieve, commutation or
pardon may be granted by the governor unless it has first been recommended by
the board.
B.For all persons who committed felony offenses
before January 1, 1994, all applications for reprieves, commutations and
pardons made to the governor shall be at once transmitted to the chairman of
the board, and the board shall return the applications with its recommendation
to the governor. All applications for reprieves, commutations and pardons made
to the governor shall include documentation that the victim or the victim's
family was notified pursuant to section 31411, subsection H.
C.For all persons who committed felony offenses on
or after January1, 1994, in addition to the powers and duties prescribed
in subsection A of this section, the board of executive clemency:
1.Is vested with the powers and duties of the board
of pardons and paroles as they existed before January 1, 1994 to carry out the
provisions of articles 3, 4.1, 5, 6 and 7 of this chapter.
2.After a hearing for which the victim, county
attorney and presiding judge are given notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make recommendations to the governor for commutation of sentence after
finding by clear and convincing evidence that the sentence imposed is clearly
excessive given the nature of the offense and the record of the offender and
that there is a substantial probability that when released the offender will
conform the offender's conduct to the requirements of the law.
3.Shall receive petitions from individuals for whom
the court has entered a special order allowing the person to petition the board
pursuant to section 13603, subsection L and may make recommendations to
the governor.
4.Shall receive petitions from individuals,
organizations or the department for review and commutation of sentences and
pardoning of offenders in extraordinary cases and may make recommendations to
the governor.
5.Shall receive petitions from the state department
of corrections alleging that an offender has violated the offender's terms and
conditions of community supervision and has lapsed or is probably about to
lapse into criminal ways or company.If the board determines that an
offender on community supervision has violated the terms and conditions of
community supervision the board may do any of the following:
(a)If the offender has not committed an additional
offense, place the offender on electronic monitoring and order the offender to
participate in a community accountability program pursuant to section 411609.05.
(b)Revoke community supervision and return the
offender to prison for the remainder of the offender's community supervision.
(c)Impose additional terms and conditions on the
offender while keeping the offender on community supervision.If
there is reasonable cause to believe that an offender who has been kept on
community supervision has violated any term or condition of community
supervision, any member of the board may petition the board to revoke community
supervision.After a petition to revoke has been submitted, the
chairman may issue a summons directing the offender to appear on a specified
date for a revocation hearing or may issue a warrant for the offender's
arrest.Nothing in this subsection limits the state department of
corrections' authority with respect to submitting revocation petitions or
issuing revocation warrants.
D.Any recommendation for commutation that is made
unanimously by the members present and voting and that is not acted on by the
governor within ninety days after the board submits its recommendation to the
governor automatically becomes effective.
E.The executive director shall perform all
administrative, operational and financial functions for the board.
F.The executive director may employ case analysts
as deemed necessary within the limits of legislative appropriation and subject
to title 41, chapter 4, article 4.The analyst
analysts shall aid the board in making investigations, in
securing information and in performing necessary administrative functions to
assist the board in passing upon on applications for parole and
commutation.
G.The executive director may employ hearing
officers as deemed necessary within the limits of legislative appropriation and
subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4.The hearing officers
shall conduct probable cause hearings on parole, work furlough, community supervision and home arrest
revocations or rescissions. Hearing officers shall assist the board in making
investigations, securing information and performing necessary administrative
functions. END_STATUTE

