







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; CPR instruction.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1137









Introduced by
Senators
  Dial, McGuire; Representatives Borrelli, Coleman, Thorpe: Senators Begay,
  Kavanagh, Shooter; Representatives Brophy McGee, Carter, Cobb, Lawrence,
  Livingston, Mitchell





AN ACT

amending sections
15718.01 and 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school
curricula.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-718.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-718.01.Instruction on cardiopulmonary resuscitation; exemptions;
definition
A.on or
before july 1, 2019, school districts and charter schools may shall provide public school pupils with one or
more training sessions in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, through the use of
psychomotor skills in an age-appropriate manner, during the seventh,eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh or twelfth
grade high school.
B.If a school
district or charter school provides training pursuant to this section, the
This training shall be
based on the most current training
developed by a nationally recognized nonprofit organization that provides
training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation that is based on the
most current national evidencebased emergency cardiovascular care
guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation.a school district or charter school may assign homework to
satisfy the requirements of this subsection and subsections b and e of this
section, if the completion of the homework is verified by a teacher or parent.
C.B.If a School district or charter school offers instruction that results
in cardiopulmonary resuscitation certification, the instruction must be provided by a
certified cardiopulmonary resuscitation trainer. This subsection does not
require a teacher or administrator who facilitates, provides or oversees the
instruction to be an authorized trainer of cardiopulmonary resuscitation if the
instruction does not result in cardiopulmonary resuscitation certification.
D.C.If a school district or charter school provides training
pursuant to this section, A pupil shall be excused from the instruction
on cardiopulmonary resuscitation at the request of either:
1.The pupil's parent.
2.A pupil who provides written documentation that
the pupil has previously received training in or is currently certified in
cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
3.A school
administrator who may excuse the pupil from the instruction if the pupil is a
person with a physical, mental or emotional disability.
E.D.If a school district or charter school provides training
pursuant to this section, A school district or charter school may
accept from any person, public entity or other legal entity in-kind donations
of materials, equipment or services that may be used in the instruction on
cardiopulmonary resuscitation. 
E.A school district or charter school may use
any of the following persons to provide instruction and training pursuant to
this section:
1.Emergency medical technicians.
2.Paramedics.
3.fire department personnel.
4.Police officers.
5.Representatives of the American heart
association.
6.Representatives of the American red cross.
7.Teachers.
8.Other school employees.
9.Other similarly qualified persons.
F.For the purposes of this section,
"psychomotor skills" means sequences of physical actions that are
practiced in a manner that supports cognitive learning.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.01.Tax credit; public school fees and contributions;
definitions
A.A
credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of any
fees paid or cash
contributions made by a
taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G during the taxable year to a public school located in this state
for the support of fees paid for standardized
testing fees for college
credit or readiness offered by a widely recognized and accepted educational
testing organization, the career and technical education industry certification
assessment, or preparation courses and
materials for standardized testing, or contributions for the support of
CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION training
pursuant to section 15718.01, extracurricular activities
or character education programs of the public school, but not exceeding:
1.Two
hundred dollars for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Three
hundred dollars in taxable year 2005 for a married couple filing a joint
return.
3.Four
hundred dollars in taxable year 2006 and any subsequent taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.A
husband and wife who file separate returns for a taxable year in which they
could have filed a joint return may each claim only onehalf of the tax
credit that would have been allowed for a joint return.
C.The
credit allowed by this section is in lieu of any deduction pursuant to section
170 of the internal revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
D.If
the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on
the claimant's income, or if there are no taxes due under this title, the
taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under
this title forward for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax
liability.
E.The site council of the public school that receives
contributions that are not designated for a specific purpose shall determine
how the contributions are used at the school site. If a charter school does
not have a site council, the principal, director or chief administrator of the
charter school shall determine how the contributions that are not designated
for a specific purpose are used at the school site. If at the end of a fiscal
year a public school has unspent contributions that were previously designated
for a specific purpose or program and that purpose or program has been
discontinued or has not been used for two consecutive fiscal years, these
contributions shall be considered undesignated in the following fiscal year for
the purposes of this subsection.
F.A
public school that receives fees or a cash contribution pursuant to subsection
A of this section shall report to the department, in a form prescribed by the
department, by February 28 of each year the following information:
1.The
total number of fee and cash contribution payments received during the previous
calendar year.
2.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions received during the previous
calendar year.
3.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions spent by the school during the
previous calendar year, categorized by specific standardized testing,
preparation courses and materials for standardized testing, extracurricular
activity or character education program.
G.For
the purposes of this section, a contribution for which a credit is claimed and
that is made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
close of the taxable year may be applied to either the current or preceding
taxable year and is considered to have been made on the last day of that
taxable year.
H.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Career
and technical education industry certification assessment" means an
assessment for career and technical preparation programs for pupils.
2."Character
education programs" means a program described in section 15719.
3."Extracurricular
activities" means schoolsponsored activities that require enrolled
students to pay a fee in order to participate, including fees for:
(a)Band
uniforms.
(b)Equipment
or uniforms for varsity athletic activities.
(c)Scientific
laboratory materials.
(d)Instate or
outofstate trips that are solely for competitive events.
Extracurricular activities do not include any senior trips or events that are
recreational, amusement or tourist activities.
4."Public
school" means a school that is part of a school district, a joint
technical education district or a charter school.
5."Standardized
testing for college credit or readiness" includes the SAT, PSAT, ACT,
advanced placement and international baccalaureate diploma tests and other
similar tests.
6."Widely
recognized and accepted educational testing organization" means the
college board, the ACT, the international baccalaureate and other organizations
that are widely recognized and accepted by colleges and universities in the
United States and that offer college credit and readiness examinations. END_STATUTE

