







REFERENCE TITLE: pharmacists; scope of practice







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1112









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending sections
321901, 321970 and 321974, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to the Arizona state board of pharmacy.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administer" means the direct
application of a controlled substance, prescriptiononly drug, dangerous
drug or narcotic drug, whether by injection, inhalation, ingestion or any other
means, to the body of a patient or research subject by a practitioner or by the
practitioner's authorized agent or the patient or research subject at the
direction of the practitioner.
2."Advertisement" means all
representations disseminated in any manner or by any means, other than by
labeling, for the purpose of inducing, or that are likely to induce, directly
or indirectly, the purchase of drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances.
3."Advisory letter" means a
nondisciplinary letter to notify a licensee or permittee that either:
(a)While there is insufficient evidence to support
disciplinary action, the board believes that continuation of the activities
that led to the investigation may result in further board action against the
licensee or permittee.
(b)The violation is a minor or technical violation
that is not of sufficient merit to warrant disciplinary action.
(c)While the licensee or permittee has demonstrated
substantial compliance through rehabilitation, remediation or reeducation that
has mitigated the need for disciplinary action, the board believes that
repetition of the activities that led to the investigation may result in
further board action against the licensee or permittee.
4."Antiseptic", if a drug is represented
as such on its label, means a representation that it is a germicide, except in
the case of a drug purporting to be, or represented as, an antiseptic for
inhibitory use as a wet dressing, ointment or dusting powder or other use that
involves prolonged contact with the body.
5."Authorized officers of the law" means
legally empowered peace officers, compliance officers of the state board of pharmacy and agents of the
division of narcotics enforcement and criminal intelligence of the department
of public safety.
6."Board" or "board of
pharmacy" means the Arizona state board of pharmacy.
7."Color additive" means a material that
either:
(a)Is any dye, pigment or other substance made by a
process of synthesis or similar artifice, or extracted, isolated or otherwise
derived, with or without intermediate or final change of identity, from any
vegetable, animal, mineral or other source.
(b)If added or applied to a drug, or to the human
body or any part of the human body, is capable of imparting color, except that
color additive does not include any material that has been or may be exempted
under the federal act.Color includes black, white and intermediate
grays.
8."Compounding" means the preparation,
mixing, assembling, packaging or labeling of a drug by a pharmacist or an
intern or pharmacy technician under the pharmacist's supervision, for the
purpose of dispensing to a patient based on a valid prescription
order.Compounding includes the preparation of drugs in anticipation
of prescription orders prepared on routine, regularly observed prescribing
patterns and the preparation of drugs as an incident to research, teaching or
chemical analysis or for administration by a medical practitioner to the
medical practitioner's patient and not for sale or dispensing. Compounding
does not include the preparation of commercially available products from bulk
compounds or the preparation of drugs for sale to pharmacies, practitioners or
entities for the purpose of dispensing or distribution.
9."Compressed medical gas distributor"
means a person who holds a current permit issued by the board to distribute
compressed medical gases pursuant to a compressed medical gas order to
compressed medical gas suppliers and other entities that are registered,
licensed or permitted to use, administer or distribute compressed medical
gases.
10."Compressed medical gas order" means
an order for compressed medical gases that is issued by a medical practitioner.
11."Compressed medical gas supplier" means
a person who holds a current permit issued by the board to supply compressed
medical gases pursuant to a compressed medical gas order and only to the
consumer or the patient.
12."Compressed medical gases" means gases
and liquid oxygen that a compressed medical gas distributor or manufacturer has
labeled in compliance with federal law.
13."Controlled substance" means a drug,
substance or immediate precursor that
is identified, defined or listed in title 36, chapter 27,
article2.
14."Corrosive" means any substance that
when it comes in contact with living tissue will cause destruction of tissue by
chemical action.
15."Counterfeit drug" means a drug that,
or the container or labeling of which, without authorization, bears the
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark, imprint, number or device, or
any likeness of these, of a manufacturer, distributor or dispenser other than
the person who in fact manufactured, distributed or dispensed that drug.
16."Dangerous drug" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401.
17."Decree of censure" means an official
action that is taken by the board and that may include a requirement for
restitution of fees to a patient or consumer.
18."Deliver" or "delivery"
means the actual, constructive or attempted transfer from one person to another
whether or not there is an agency relationship.
19."Deputy director" means a pharmacist
who is employed by the board and selected by the executive director to perform
duties as prescribed by the executive director.
20."Device", except as used in paragraph
15 of this section, section 321965, paragraph 4 and section 321967,
subsection A, paragraph 15 and subsection C, means instruments, apparatus and
contrivances, including their components, parts and accessories, including all
such items under the federal act, intended either:
(a)For use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other animals.
(b)To affect the structure or any function of the
human body or other animals.
21."Direct supervision of a pharmacist"
means the pharmacist is present.If relating to the sale of certain
items, direct supervision of a pharmacist means that a pharmacist determines
the legitimacy or advisability of a proposed purchase of those items.
22."Director" means the director of the
division of narcotics enforcement and criminal investigation of the department
of public safety.
23."Dispense" means to deliver to an
ultimate user or research subject by or pursuant to the lawful order of a
practitioner, including the prescribing, administering, packaging, labeling or
compounding necessary to prepare for that delivery.
24."Dispenser" means a practitioner who
dispenses.
25."Distribute" means to deliver, other
than by administering or dispensing.
26."Distributor" means a person who
distributes.
27."Drug" means:
(a)Articles recognized, or for which standards or
specifications are prescribed, in the official compendium.
(b)Articles intended for use in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other
animals.
(c)Articles other than food intended to affect the
structure or any function of the human body or other animals.
(d)Articles intended for use as a component of any
articles specified in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph but does
not include devices or their components, parts or accessories.
28."Drug enforcement administration"
means the drug enforcement administration of the United States department of
justice or its successor agency.
29."Drug or device manufacturing" means
the production, preparation, propagation or processing of a drug or device,
either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural origin
or independently by means of chemical synthesis and includes any packaging or
repackaging of substances or labeling or relabeling of its container and the
promotion and marketing of the same.Drug or device manufacturing
does not include compounding.
30."Economic poison" means any substance
that alone, in chemical combination or in formulation with one or more other
substances is a pesticide within the meaning of the laws of this state or the
federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act and that is used in the
production, storage or transportation of raw agricultural commodities.
31."Established name", with respect to a
drug or ingredient of a drug, means any of the following:
(a)The applicable official name.
(b)If there is no such name and the drug or
ingredient is an article recognized in an official compendium, the official
title in an official compendium.
(c)If neither subdivision (a) nor (b) of this
paragraph applies, the common or usual name of such drug.
32."Executive director" means the
executive director of the board of pharmacy.
33."Federal act" means the federal laws
and regulations that pertain to drugs, devices, poisons and hazardous
substances and that are official at the time any drug, device, poison or
hazardous substance is affected by this chapter.
34."Full service wholesale permittee"
means a permittee who may distribute prescriptiononly drugs and devices,
controlled substances and overthecounter drugs and devices to
pharmacies or other legal outlets from a place devoted in whole or in part to
wholesaling these items.
35."Graduate intern" means a person who
has graduated from a college, school or program of pharmacy approved by the
board and who meets the qualifications and experience for a pharmacy intern as
provided in section 321923.
36."Highly toxic" means any substance
that falls within any of the following categories:
(a)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, at a single dose of fifty
milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, when orally administered.
(b)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, if inhaled continuously for a
period of one hour or less at an atmospheric concentration of two hundred parts
per million by volume or less of gas or vapor or two milligrams per liter by
volume or less of mist or dust, provided the concentration is likely to be
encountered by humans if the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable
manner.
(c)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more rabbits tested in a dosage of two
hundred milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, if administered by
continuous contact with the bare skin for twentyfour hours or less.
If the board finds that available data on human experience with
any substance indicate results different from those obtained on animals in the
dosages or concentrations prescribed in this paragraph, the human data shall
take precedence.
37."Hospital" means any institution for
the care and treatment of the sick and injured that is approved and licensed as
a hospital by the department of health services.
38."Intern" means a pharmacy intern and a
graduate intern.
39."Internship" means the practical,
experiential, handson training of a pharmacy intern under the
supervision of a preceptor.
40."Irritant" means any substance, other
than a corrosive, that on immediate, prolonged or repeated contact with normal
living tissue will induce a local inflammatory reaction.
41."Jurisprudence examination" means a board approved boardapproved pharmacy law examination
that is written and administered in cooperation with the national association
of boards of pharmacy or another board
approved boardapproved
pharmacy law examination.
42."Label" means a display of written,
printed or graphic matter on the immediate container of any article that, unless
easily legible through the outside wrapper or container, also appears on the
outside wrapper or container of the article's retail package.For
the purposes of this paragraph, the immediate container does not include
package liners.
43."Labeling" means all labels and other
written, printed or graphic matter either:
(a)On any article or any of its containers or
wrappers.
(b)Accompanying that article.
44."Letter of reprimand" means a
disciplinary letter that is a public document issued by the board and that
informs a licensee or permittee that the licensee's or permittee's conduct
violates state or federal law and may require the board to monitor the licensee
or permittee.
45."Limited service pharmacy" means a
pharmacy that is approved by the board to practice a limited segment of
pharmacy as indicated by the permit issued by the board.
46."Manufacture" or
"manufacturer" means every person who prepares, derives, produces,
compounds, processes, packages or repackages or labels any drug in a place,
other than a pharmacy, devoted to manufacturing the drug.
47."Marijuana" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401.
48."Medical practitioner" means any
medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, dentist, podiatrist, veterinarian or
other person who is licensed
and authorized by law to use and prescribe drugs and devices for the treatment
of sick and injured human beings or animals or for the diagnosis or prevention
of sickness in human beings or animals in this state or any state, territory or
district of the United States.
49."Medication order" means a written or
verbal order from a medical practitioner or that person's authorized agent to
administer a drug or device.
50."Narcotic drug" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 133401.
51."New
drug" means either:
(a)Any drug the
composition of which is such that the drug is not generally recognized among
experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety
and effectiveness of drugs as safe and effective for use under the conditions
prescribed, recommended or suggested in the labeling.
(b)Any drug the composition of which is such that
the drug, as a result of investigations to determine its safety and
effectiveness for use under such conditions, has become so recognized, but that
has not, other than in the investigations, been used to a material extent or
for a material time under those conditions.
52."Nonprescription drug" or "overthecounter
drug" means any nonnarcotic medicine or drug that may be sold without a
prescription and is prepackaged and labeled for use by the consumer in
accordance with the requirements of the laws of this state and federal
law.Nonprescription drug does not include:
(a)A drug that is primarily advertised and promoted
professionally to medical practitioners and pharmacists by manufacturers or
primary distributors.
(b)A controlled substance.
(c)A drug that is required to bear a label that
states "Rx only."
(d)A drug that
is intended for human use by hypodermic injection.
53."Nonprescription drug wholesale
permittee" means a permittee who may distribute only overthecounter
drugs and devices to pharmacies or other lawful outlets from a place devoted in
whole or in part to wholesaling these items.
54."Notice" means personal service or the
mailing of a copy of the notice by certified mail addressed either to the
person at the person's latest address of record in the board office or to the
person's attorney.
55."Official compendium" means the latest
revision of the United States pharmacopeia and the national formulary or any
current supplement.
56."Other jurisdiction" means one of the
other fortynine states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico or a territory of the United States of America.
57."Package" means a receptacle defined
or described in the United States pharmacopeia and the national formulary as
adopted by the board.
58."Packaging" means the act or process
of placing a drug item or device in a container for the purpose or intent of
dispensing or distributing the item or device to another.
59."Person" means an individual,
partnership, corporation and association, and their duly authorized agents.
60."Pharmaceutical care" means the
provision of drug therapy and other pharmaceutical patient care services.
61."Pharmacist" means an individual who is currently licensed by
the board to practice the profession of pharmacy in this state.
62."Pharmacist in charge" means the
pharmacist who is responsible to the board for a licensed establishment's
compliance with the laws and administrative rules of this state and of the
federal government pertaining to the practice of pharmacy, the manufacturing of
drugs and the distribution of drugs and devices.
63."Pharmacist licensure examination"
means a board approved boardapproved
examination that is written and administered in cooperation with the national
association of boards of pharmacy or any other board approved boardapproved pharmacist licensure
examination.
64."Pharmacy" means any place:
(a)Where drugs, devices, poisons or related
hazardous substances are offered for sale at retail.
(b)In which the profession of pharmacy is practiced
or where prescription orders are compounded and dispensed.
(c)That has displayed on it or in it the words
"pharmacist," "pharmaceutical chemist,"
"apothecary," "druggist," "pharmacy,"
"drugstore," "drugs" or "drug sundries" or any of
these words or combinations of these words, or words of similar import either
in English or any other language, or that is advertised by any sign containing
any of these words.
(d)Where the characteristic symbols of pharmacy or
the characteristic prescription sign "Rx" is exhibited.
(e)Or a portion of any building or structure that
is leased, used or controlled by the permittee to conduct the business
authorized by the board at the address for which the permit was issued and that
is enclosed and secured when a pharmacist is not in attendance.
65."Pharmacy intern" means a person who
has all of the qualifications and experience prescribed in section 321923.
66."Pharmacy technician" means a person
who is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
67."Pharmacy technician trainee" means a
person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
68."Poison" or "hazardous
substance" includes, but is not limited to, any of the following if
intended and suitable for household use or use by children:
(a)Any substance that, according to standard works
on medicine, pharmacology, pharmacognosy or toxicology, if applied to,
introduced into or developed within the body in relatively small quantities by
its inherent action uniformly produces serious bodily injury, disease or death.
(b)A toxic substance.
(c)A highly toxic substance.
(d)A corrosive substance.
(e)An irritant.
(f)A strong sensitizer.
(g)A mixture of any of the substances described in
this paragraph, if the substance or mixture of substances may cause substantial
personal injury or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any
customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably
foreseeable ingestion by children.
(h)A substance that is designated by the board to be a poison
or hazardous substance.This subdivision does not apply to
radioactive substances, economic poisons subject to the federal insecticide,
fungicide and rodenticide act or the state pesticide act, foods, drugs and
cosmetics subject to state laws or the federal act or substances intended for
use as fuels when stored in containers and used in the heating, cooking or
refrigeration system of a house. This subdivision applies to any substance or
article that is not itself an economic poison within the meaning of the federal
insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act or the state pesticide act, but that
is a poison or hazardous substance within the meaning of this paragraph by
reason of bearing or containing an economic poison or hazardous substance.
69."Practice of pharmacy" means
furnishing the following health care services as a medical professional:
(a)Interpreting, evaluating and dispensing
prescription orders in the patient's best interests.
(b)Compounding drugs pursuant to or in anticipation
of a prescription order.
(c)Labeling of drugs and devices in compliance with
state and federal requirements.
(d)Participating in drug selection and drug
utilization reviews, drug administration, drug or drug-related research and
drug therapy monitoring or management.
(e)Providing patient counseling necessary to
provide pharmaceutical care.
(f)Properly and safely storing drugs and devices in
anticipation of dispensing.
(g)Maintaining required records of drugs and
devices.
(h)Offering or performing of acts, services,
operations or transactions necessary in the conduct, operation, management and
control of a pharmacy.
(i)Implementing Initiating, monitoring and
modifying drug therapy pursuant to a protocolbased drug therapy
agreement with a provider as outlined in section 321970.
(j)Initiating and administering immunizations or
vaccines pursuant to section 321974.
70."Practitioner" means any physician,
dentist, veterinarian, scientific investigator or other person who is licensed,
registered or otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research
with respect to or administer a controlled substance in the course of
professional practice or research in this state, or any pharmacy, hospital or
other institution that is licensed, registered or otherwise permitted to
distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to or administer a
controlled substance in the course of professional practice or research in this
state.
71."Preceptor" means a pharmacist who is
serving as the practical instructor of an intern and complies with section 321923.
72."Precursor chemical" means a substance
that is:
(a)The principal compound that is commonly used or
that is produced primarily for use and that is an immediate chemical
intermediary used or likely to be used in the manufacture of a controlled
substance, the control of which is necessary to prevent, curtail or limit manufacture.
(b)Listed in section 133401, paragraph 26 or
27.
73."Prescription" means either a
prescription order or a prescription medication.
74."Prescription medication" means any
drug, including label and container according to context, that is dispensed
pursuant to a prescription order.
75."Prescriptiononly device"
includes:
(a)Any device that is limited by the federal act to
use under the supervision of a medical practitioner.
(b)Any device required by the federal act to bear
on its label essentially the legend "Rx only".
76."Prescriptiononly drug" does
not include a controlled substance but does include:
(a)Any drug that because of its toxicity or other
potentiality for harmful effect, the method of its use, or the collateral
measures necessary to its use is not generally recognized among experts,
qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate its safety and
efficacy, as safe for use except by or under the supervision of a medical
practitioner.
(b)Any drug that is limited by an approved new drug
application under the federal act or section 321962 to use under the
supervision of a medical practitioner.
(c)Every potentially harmful drug, the labeling of
which does not bear or contain full and adequate directions for use by the
consumer.
(d)Any drug, other than a controlled substance,
required by the federal act to bear on its label the legend "Rx
only".
77."Prescription order" means any of the
following:
(a)An order to a pharmacist for drugs or devices
issued and signed by a duly licensed medical practitioner in the authorized
course of the practitioner's professional practice.
(b)An order transmitted to a pharmacist through
word of mouth, telephone or other means of communication directed by that
medical practitioner.Prescription orders received by word of mouth,
telephone or other means of communication shall be maintained by the pharmacist
pursuant to section 321964, and the record so made by the pharmacist
constitutes the original prescription order to be dispensed by the
pharmacist.This paragraph does not alter or affect laws of this
state or any federal act requiring a written prescription order.
(c)An order initiated by a pharmacist pursuant to a
protocol-based drug therapy agreement with a provider as outlined in section
32-1970, or immunizations or vaccines administered by a pharmacist pursuant to
section 321974.
78."Professionally incompetent" means:
(a)Incompetence based on a variety of factors, including a lack of
sufficient pharmaceutical knowledge or skills or experience to a degree likely
to endanger the health of patients.
(b)When considered with other indications of
professional incompetence, a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern who
fails to obtain a passing score on a board
approved boardapproved
pharmacist licensure examination or a pharmacy technician or pharmacy
technician trainee who fails to obtain a passing score on a board approved boardapproved pharmacy technician
licensure examination.
79."Radioactive substance" means a
substance that emits ionizing radiation.
80."Safely engage in employment duties"
means that a permittee or the permittee's employee is able to safely engage in
employment duties related to the manufacture, sale, distribution or dispensing
of drugs, devices, poisons, hazardous substances, controlled substances or
precursor chemicals.
81."Symbol" means the characteristic
symbols that have historically identified pharmacy, including "show globes", and
"mortar
and pestle, " and the sign
"Rx".
82."Toxic substance" means a substance,
other than a radioactive substance, that has the capacity to produce injury or
illness in humans through ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body
surface.
83."Ultimate user" means a person who
lawfully possesses a drug or controlled substance for that person's own use,
for the use of a member of that person's household or for administering to an
animal owned by that person or by a member of that person's household. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1970, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1970.Initiating, monitoring and modifying drug therapy and use;
conditions; definitions
A.A pharmacist licensed pursuant to this chapter
may implement initiate, monitor and modify
drug therapy and use only under the following circumstances:
1.The patient's drug therapy and use are pursuant
to a provider.
2.The pharmacist complies with rules adopted by the
state board of pharmacy.
3.The pharmacist follows the written drug therapy
management protocols prescribed by the provider who made the diagnosis and implements initiates, monitors or modifies a person's
drug therapy and use only pursuant to those protocols.Each protocol
developed pursuant to the drug therapy agreement shall contain detailed
directions concerning the actions that the pharmacist may perform for that
patient.The protocol shall specify, at a minimum, the specific drug
or drugs to be managed by the pharmacist, the conditions and events for which
the pharmacist must notify the provider and the laboratory tests that may be
ordered.A provider who enters into a protocolbased drug
therapy agreement must have a legitimate providerpatient relationship.
B.A licensee who violates this section commits an
act of unprofessional conduct.
C.A pharmacist is responsible for the pharmacist's
negligent acts that are the result of the pharmacist's change of medication or
that relate to patient drug usage pursuant to drug therapy management
protocols. This subsection does not limit a provider's liability for negligent
acts that are not related to a pharmacist's change of medication pursuant to
the protocols.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Implement Initiate, monitor and
modify" means that a pharmacist may perform specific acts as authorized by
a provider pursuant to written guidelines and protocols.This does
not include the selection of drug products not prescribed by the provider
unless selection of the specific drug product is authorized by the written
guidelines and protocols.
2."Protocol" means a provider's written
order, written standing medical order or other written order of protocol as
defined by rules adopted by the Arizona medical board, and
the Arizona board of
osteopathic examiners in medicine and surgery and the Arizona state board of nursing and
that are patient, provider and pharmacist specific for prescriptions or orders
given by the provider authorizing the written protocol.
3."Provider" means a physician who is
licensed pursuant to chapter 13 or 17 of this title or a registered nurse
practitioner who is licensed pursuant to chapter 15 of this title and who acts
as a primary care practitioner. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-1974, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1974.Pharmacists; administration of immunizations, vaccines and
emergency medications; certification; reporting requirements; advisory
committee; definitions
A.Except as prescribed pursuant to subsection I of
this section, a pharmacist who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and who
meets the requirements of this section may administer the following to adults
without a prescription order pursuant to rules and protocols adopted by the
board pursuant to this section:
1.Immunizations or vaccines listed in recommended for adults by the United States centers for
disease control and prevention's
recommended adult immunization schedule prevention.
2.Immunizations or vaccines recommended by the
United States centers for disease control and prevention's health information
for international travel.
B.A pharmacist who is licensed pursuant to this
chapter and who meets the requirements of this section may administer the
following to a person who is at least six
years of age but under eighteen years of age minors without a prescription order pursuant
to rules and protocols adopted by the board pursuant to this section:
1.influenza
immunizations or vaccines for
influenza to a person who
is at least three years of age.
2.Immunizations
or vaccines in response to a public health emergency declared by the governor
pursuant to section 36787.
2.Booster
doses for the primary adolescent series as recommended by the United States
centers for disease control and prevention.
3.Immunizations
or vaccines recommended by the United States centers for disease control and
prevention to a person who is at least thirteen years of age.
C.Pursuant to
a prescription order
except as prescribed in subsection B of this section, a
pharmacist who is licensed pursuant to this chapter and who meets the
requirements of this section may administer immunizations and vaccines, including the first dose for the primary
adolescent series, to a person who is at least six years of age
but under eighteen thirteen years of age only with a prescription order and pursuant
to rules and protocols adopted by the board pursuant to this section.
D.A pharmacist who wishes to administer
immunizations and vaccines pursuant to this section must be certified to do so
by the board. The board shall issue a certificate to a pharmacist who meets
board requirements for certification as prescribed by the board by rule.
E.A pharmacist who is certified to administer
immunizations and vaccines pursuant to this section may administer without a prescription order:
1.Emergency
medication to manage an acute allergic reaction to an immunization, or vaccine or medication in accordance with the United States centers
for disease control and prevention immunization guidelines.
2.Immunizations
or vaccines to any person regardless of age during a public health emergency
response of this state pursuant to section 36787.
F.A pharmacist who administers an immunization,
vaccine or emergency medication pursuant to this section must:
1.Report the administration to the person's Identified primary care
provider or physician, if the primary
care provider or physician is available, within forty-eight hours
after administering the immunization, vaccine or emergency medication and as
prescribed by the board by rule.
Failure to report the administration of an immunization, vaccine or emergency
medication pursuant to this section is a violation of section 321901.01,
subsection B, paragraph 2. The pharmacist shall make a reasonable effort to
identify the person's primary care provider or physician by one or more of the
following methods:
(a)Checking any adult immunization
information system or vaccine registry established by the department of health
services.
(b)Checking pharmacy records.
(c)Requesting the information from
the person or, in the case of a minor, the person's parent or guardian. If the
person, parent or guardian reports not having a primary care provider or
physician, the person, parent or guardian must sign an attestation to that
effect and the pharmacist shall counsel the person, parent or guardian on the
importance of finding a primary care provider or physician.
2.Report information to any adult immunization
information system or vaccine registry established by the department of health
services.
3.Maintain a record of the immunization pursuant to
title 12, chapter 13, article 7.1 and as prescribed by the board by rule.
4.Report to
the person's identified primary care provider or physician, within twentyfour
hours of occurrence, any adverse reaction listed by the vaccine manufacturer as
a contraindication to further doses of the vaccine.
4.5.Participate
in any federal vaccine adverse event reporting system or successor database.
G.This section does not establish a cause of action
against a patient's primary care provider or physician for any adverse reaction,
complication or negative outcome arising from the administration of any
immunization, vaccine or emergency medication by a pharmacist to a the
patient pursuant to this section if it is administered without a
prescription order written
by the patient's primary care provider
or physician.
H.The board shall adopt rules for the
administration of vaccines or immunizations pursuant to this section regarding:
1.Protocols that are based on protocols approved by
the United States centers for disease control and prevention and any advisory
committee appointed by the board for the purpose of recommending protocols.
2.Record
keeping Recordkeeping
and reporting requirements.
3.Requirements and qualifications for pharmacist
certification pursuant to this section.
4.Vaccine information and educational materials for
those requesting vaccines and immunizations.
5.The administration of emergency medication
pursuant to this section.
I.The department of health services, by rule, shall
establish and maintain a list of immunizations or vaccines that may be
administered to adults by a pharmacist only pursuant to a prescription order.
In adopting and maintaining this list, the department is exempt from the rule making rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter
6. The department shall adopt its initial rules within six months after
receipt of the recommendations of the advisory committee appointed by the board
and shall hold one public hearing before implementing the rules and any
amendments to the rules. The list shall include those immunizations or
vaccines listed in the United States centers for disease control and
prevention's recommended adult immunization schedule or recommended by the
United States centers for disease control and prevention's health information
for international travel that have adverse reactions that could cause
significant harm to a patient's health.A pharmacist may not
administer immunizations or vaccines without a prescription order pursuant to
this section before the department has established the list pursuant to this
subsection.The board may not authorize a pharmacist to administer
new immunizations or vaccines without a prescription order pursuant to this
section until the department reviews the new immunizations and vaccines to
determine if they should be added to the list established pursuant to this
subsection.
J.The board may appoint an advisory committee to
assist the board in adopting and amending rules and developing protocols
relating to the administration of immunizations, vaccines and emergency medications
and certification requirements.
K.A pharmacy intern who is certified by the board
to administer immunizations and vaccines pursuant to this section may do so
only in the presence and under the immediate personal supervision of a
pharmacist who is certified
as prescribed in this section.
L.This section does not prevent a pharmacist who
administers an immunization or vaccine from participating in the federal
vaccines for children program.
M.A pharmacist may not administer an immunization
or vaccine to a minor pursuant to
subsection B or C of this section without the consent of the
minor's parent or guardian.
N.For the purposes of this section: ,
1."Emergency
medication" means emergency epinephrine and diphenhydramine and antihistamines in accordance with the United States
centers for disease control and prevention immunization guidelines.
2."Primary
adolescent series" means those immunizations or vaccines recommended by
the United States Centers for disease control and prevention for children
starting at age eleven or twelve. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Legislative intent
It is the intent of the legislature that the changes made by
this act to section 321974, Arizona Revised Statutes, allow families
greater access to immunizations and vaccinations, maintain and enhance
collaboration between pharmacists and primary care providers and affirm the
importance of annual wellchild visits in a medical home during critical
developmental ages. This act recognizes the efficiencies and improved outcomes
when care is delivered through a medical home where a primary care provider
working in collaboration with the family and other providers oversees acute,
chronic and preventative health needs in a coordinated and comprehensive
fashion.

