







REFERENCE TITLE: prisoner transition program;
  eligibility; termination








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1126









Introduced by
Senators
  Smith, Barto, Farley; Representatives Brophy McGee, Meyer





AN ACT

amending sections
31-254, 31281 and 31-287, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
prisoner transition program.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 31-254, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-254.Compensation for labor performed; price of prison made
articles; distribution of earnings; workers' compensation
A.Each prisoner who is engaged in productive work
in any state prison or institution under the jurisdiction of the department or
a private prison under contract with the department as a part of the prison
industries program shall receive for the prisoner's work the compensation that
the director determines.The compensation shall be in accordance
with a graduated schedule based on quantity and quality of work performed and
skill required for its performance but shall not exceed one dollar fifty cents
per hour unless the prisoner is employed in an Arizona correctional industries
program pursuant to title 41, chapter 11, article 3.If the director
enters into a contract pursuant to section 411624.01 with a private
person, firm, corporation or association the director shall prescribe prisoner
compensation of at least two dollars per hour.Compensation shall
not be paid to prisoners for attendance at educational training or treatment
programs, but compensation may be paid for work training programs.
B.Whenever a price is fixed for any article,
material, supply or service to be produced, manufactured, supplied or performed
in connection with the industries program of the department, the compensation
paid to prisoners shall be included as an item of cost in fixing the price.
C.The compensation of prisoners shall be paid out
of the fund established pursuant to section 411624 or out of funds
appropriated for that purpose by the legislature when required.
D.If the compensation due a prisoner is less than
two dollars per hour, mandatory deductions shall be taken for the following
purposes in the order specified:
1.Twentyfive percent of the prisoner's gross
wages until the prisoner's dedicated discharge account registers a one hundred
dollar balance or, if the prisoner is serving a sentence of natural life, a
fifty dollar balance.
2.If the prisoner initiates a lawsuit, twenty
percent from all deposits to the prisoner's spendable account until the court
fees are collected in full.
3.If the
prisoner was not convicted of a violation of title 28, chapter 4,
Five percent of the prisoner's gross wages shall be used exclusively to fund
the transition program established by section 31281. All monies
collected under this paragraph shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in the transition program fund established by section 31284.
4.Thirty percent of
the prisoner's wages for court ordered dependent care.
E.If the
compensation due a prisoner equals or exceeds two dollars per hour, the
director shall credit to the prisoner's spendable account established pursuant
to section 31230 an amount equaling fifty cents per hour for each hour
compensation is due plus ten percent of the adjusted balance remaining after
the mandatory deductions are taken. Mandatory deductions shall be taken for the
following purposes in the order specified:
1.Twentyfive percent of the prisoner's gross
wages until the prisoner's dedicated discharge account registers a one hundred
dollar balance or, if the prisoner is serving a sentence of natural life, a
fifty dollar balance.
2.If the prisoner initiates a lawsuit, twenty
percent from all deposits to the prisoner's spendable account until the court
costs are collected in full.
3.If the
prisoner was not convicted of a violation of title 28, chapter 4,
Five percent of the prisoner's gross wages to fund the transition program
established by section 31281.All monies collected under this
paragraph shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in the transition program fund established by section 31284. 
4.Thirty percent of the prisoner's wages for the
room and board costs of maintaining the prisoner at the facility.
5.Thirty percent of the prisoner's wages for court
ordered dependent care.
F.After the mandatory deductions and obligations
are paid by the prisoner, the remaining monies shall be credited to the
prisoner's retention account established by the director pursuant to section 31261,
subsection B.
G.A prisoner may gain access to the prisoner's
trust fund or retention account for emergency purposes at the sole discretion
of the director.
H.Any monies not expended from the contributing
prisoner's trust fund or retention account for the purposes prescribed in
subsection E of this section shall be paid to the prisoner on release pursuant
to section 31228.
I.If any prisoner escapes, the director shall
determine what portion of the prisoner's earnings shall be forfeited, and the
forfeited amount shall be deposited in the special services fund established by
section 411604.03.
J.This section is not intended to restore, in whole
or in part, the civil rights of any prisoner.A prisoner who is
compensated under this section shall not be considered to be an employee of or
employed by this state, the department or any private person, firm, corporation
or association engaged in a contract pursuant to section 411624.01, and
the prisoner does not come within any of the provisions of the workers'
compensation provided in title 23, chapter 6 and is not entitled to any
benefits under title 23, chapter 6 whether on behalf of the prisoner or of any
other person.This subsection does not apply to prisoners who are
employed pursuant to a federally certified prison industry enhancement program
established pursuant to section 411674. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 31-281, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-281.Transition program; report; definition
A.The department shall establish a transition
program.The department shall administer the transition program and
contract with private or nonprofit entities to provide eligible inmates with
transition services and shall procure transition services pursuant to title 41,
chapter 23.
B.The director shall adopt rules to implement this
article.The rules shall include:
1.Eligibility criteria for receiving a contracted
entity's transition services. To be eligible, at a minimum, an inmate shall:
(a)Not have been convicted of a violation of sexual offense pursuant to title 13, chapter
14 or a violation of title 13, chapter
17 or title 28, chapter 4.
(b)Be
classified by the state department of corrections as a low risk to the
community.
(c)(b)Not
have been convicted of a violent crime as defined in section 13-901.03 or a
domestic violence offense pursuant to section 13-3601.
(d)Have a
nonviolent risk score as determined by the department.
(e)(c)Not
have any felony detainers.
(f)(d)Agree
in writing to provide specific information after the inmate is
released.The department shall use the information to prepare the
report prescribed by subsection D, paragraph 3 of this section.
(g)Have made
satisfactory progress on the inmate's individualized corrections plan as determined
by the department.
(h)Have
maintained civil behavior while incarcerated as determined by the department.
(i)Be current
on restitution payments pursuant to section 31254.
(j)Have a
need and ability to benefit from the program as determined by the department.
2.A requirement that each contracted entity train
mentors or certify that mentors are trained.
3.A
requirement that the services that may be offered to an inmate include psychoeducational counseling and case management
services.The
counseling and services may include substance abuse treatment, anger
management, cognitive skills training, parenting skills and family
reunification training, further education and job placement.
4.The criteria for inmates to participate in a three month threemonth early release program.
Inmates are not required to receive an
early release who receive
an early release under the transition program shall receive all services while
in the community and on community corrections during the three months.
5.A requirement that
an inmate may be released pursuant to this article only after the victim has
been provided notice and an opportunity to be heard. The department shall
provide notice to a victim who has provided a current address or other contact
information. The notice shall inform the victim of the opportunity to be heard
on the early release.Any objection to the inmate's early release
must be made within twenty days after the department has mailed the notice to
the victim.
6.The
opportunity for a contracted entity to:
(a)Provide inmates with information
about the transition program.
(b)Obtain information from eligible
inmates on any transitionrelated needs before the inmate is released
under a transition program.
C.In awarding contracts under this section the
department shall comply with section 413751.
D.The department
shall:
1.Conduct an annual
study to determine the recidivism rate of inmates who receive a contracted
entity's services pursuant to this article.The study shall include the recidivism rate of inmates who
have been released from incarceration for a minimum of three years after
receiving a contracted entity's services.
2.Evaluate the inmate and provide the information
to the contracted entity.
3.Submit a written report to the governor, the
president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives on or
before July 31 of each year and provide a copy of this report to the secretary
of state and the director of the Arizona
state library, archives and public records.The report
shall contain the following information:
(a)The recidivism rate of inmates who receive
services pursuant to this article,
including the recidivism rate of inmates who have been released from
incarceration for a minimum of three years after receiving the services.
(b)The number of inmates who received services
pursuant to this article.
(c)The number of inmates who were not provided
services pursuant to this article and who were on a list waiting to receive
services.
(d)The types of services provided.
(e)The number of inmates who received each type of
service provided.
E.The
department may not exclude an inmate from a transition program because of a low
score in an educational evaluation that is given pursuant to section 31-229.
F.For the
purposes of this section, "recidivism" means reincarceration in the
department for any reason. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 31-287, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE31-287.Program termination
The transition program established by this article ends on July
1, 2018 2020 pursuant to section 413102. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.State department of corrections; target number of inmates
in transition program for fiscal years 20162017 and 20172018
A.In fiscal year 20162017, the state
department of corrections shall have a target number of three thousand five
hundred eligible inmates in the transition program established by section 31281,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.
B.In fiscal year 20172018,
the state department of corrections shall have a target number of five thousand
eligible inmates in the transition program established by section 31281,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act.

