







REFERENCE TITLE: department of forestry 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1189









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, Pancrazi; Representative Pratt: Senators Allen S, Barto, Burges,
  Donahue, McGuire, Shooter, Smith; Representatives Bowers, Leach





AN ACT

Amending sections
37621 and 37622, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41,
chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 413024.09;
relating to forestry and fire management.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Heading change
The article heading of title 37, chapter 2.1, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is changed from "STATE FORESTER" to "ARIZONA
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY AND FIRE MANAGEMENT".
Sec.2.Section 37-621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-621.Arizona department of forestry and fire management; state
forester; appointment; qualifications
A.The Arizona department of forestry and fire
management is established to provide resources for land management and the
prevention and suppression of wildland fires on state land and on private
property located outside of cities and towns.
A.B.The
governor shall appoint a state forester pursuant to section 38211. The
state forester serves at the pleasure of the governor. the state forester is responsible for the direction,
operation and control of the arizona department of forestry and fire
management.
B.C.The
qualifications of the state forester shall be either of the following:
1.Graduation from a full fouryear college
course with a bachelor's degree, with a major in forestry including five years
of technical experience in the forestryland management field.
2.Ten years of successful and progressive technical
experience in forestry and land management activities of such a nature as to
enable the applicant to perform his
the duties of the state forester successfully
at the professional level. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 37-622, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE37-622.Powers and duties of state forester; rules; legislative
presentation; acceptance of federal law
A.The state forester is designated as the agent of
the state of Arizona and shall administer the provisions of this chapter. In addition, The state forester shall:
1.Exercise
and perform all powers and duties vested in or imposed on the arizona
department of forestry and fire management.
2.Adopt
rules necessary to discharge the powers and duties of the arizona department of
forestry and fire management, including rules that create efficiencies, protect
the public health and safety and prescribe budgetary obligations.
3.Employ,
determine the terms and conditions of employment of and prescribe the duties
and powers of administrative, professional, technical, secretarial, clerical
and other persons as may be necessary in the performance of the arizona
department of forestry and fire management's duties and contract for the
services of outside advisors, consultants and aides as may be reasonably
necessary.
1.4.Perform
all management and administrative functions assigned or delegated to this state
by the United States relating to forestry and financial assistance and grants
relating to forestry.
2.5.Identify
sources of information relating to forest management, including wildfire
suppression and recovery and administrative and judicial appeals and litigation
with respect to timber sales and forest thinning projects in this state, and
develop procedures for compiling and transferring that information to the state
forester.
3.6.Take
necessary action to maximize state fire assistance grants, including
establishing timelines for using grant monies and reallocating lapsed grant
monies to other projects.
4.7.Conduct
education and outreach in forest communities by explaining the wildfire threat to private
property caused by lack of timber harvesting and thinning.
5.8.Monitor
forestry projects and wildfire activities.
9.Assist in
the development of the forestry products industry in this state.
6.10.Intervene
on behalf of this state and its citizens in administrative and judicial appeals
and litigation that challenge governmental efforts supported by the state
forester if the state forester determines that intervention is in the best
interests of this state.
7.11.Annually
develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the deployment of state, county,
municipal, fire district, volunteer fire association and private fire service
provider contract resources to wildfire suppression activities. The wildfire
deployment plan shall take into account anticipated fire conditions and fire
severity and may include prepositioning resources as necessary. The state
forester shall consult with federal land management firefighting agencies,
state and county emergency agencies, municipal fire departments, fire
districts, statewide fire district and statewide fire chiefs associations,
volunteer fire departments and private fire contractors in the development of a
comprehensive wildfire deployment plan, the implementation of standards for
training and certification for all classes of wildland fire personnel and the
implementation of standards for wildland fire apparatus and equipment that is are deployed under cooperative agreements with
the state forester.
8.12.Provide
necessary oversight to ensure standardized training and certification for all
classifications of wildfire firefighters to be deployed, through cooperator
agreement with the state forester, to any federal or state wildfire incident.
B.During the first regular session of each
legislature, the state forester shall present information to the legislative
committees with jurisdiction over forestry issues. The state forester shall
collaborate with, and invite the participation of, relevant state, federal and
local governmental officers and agencies. A written report is not required,
but the presentation shall include information concerning:
1.Forestry management, including the current
conditions of the forests in this state on federal, state and private property
as affected by federal, state and local public policies, climatic conditions,
wildfire hazards, pest infestations, overgrowth and overgrowth control policies
and methods and the effects of current federal policy on forest management and
impacts on forest land management.
2.The wildlandurban interface, including the
effects of county and municipal zoning policies and wildfire hazards on public
and private property.
3.Wildfire emergency
management and all hazard response issues,
including:
(a)Intergovernmental
and interagency primacy, cooperation, coordination, roles and training of
federal, state and local forestry, firefighting and law enforcement agencies.
(b)Channels and methods of communicating emergency
information to the public.
(c)The roles of governmental and nongovernmental
disaster relief agencies and organizations.
(d)The level of federal, state and local emergency
funding.
C.The state forester may:
1.Furnish technical advice to the people of the this state on forestry and land management matters.
2.Do all other acts necessary to take advantage of
and carry out the provisions of the act of Congress described in subsection D of this section.
D.This state accepts the provisions of the
cooperative forestry assistance act of 1978 (P.L. 95313; 92 Stat. 365;
16 United States Code chapter 41) providing for federal forestry assistance
programs to states. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-3024.09, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3024.09.Arizona department of forestry and fire management;
termination July 1, 2024
A.The
arizona department of forestry and fire management terminates on July 1, 2024.
B.Title 37,
chapter 2.1, article 1 is repealed on January 1, 2025. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Purpose
Pursuant to section 412955, subsection E, Arizona
Revised Statutes, the legislature establishes the Arizona department of
forestry and fire management to provide resources for the prevention and
suppression of wildland fires on state land and private property located
outside of cities and towns.

