







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; cursive writing requirement







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1197









Introduced by
Senators
  Griffin, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Driggs, Kavanagh, McGuire, Meza, Smith,
  Yee; Representative Thorpe: Senators Allen S, Barto, Begay, Biggs, Bradley,
  Burges, Donahue, Farley, Farnsworth D, Hobbs, Lesko, Shooter, Worsley;
  Representatives Cardenas, Fann, Fernandez, Gray, Montenegro, Olson, Pratt,
  Rios, Shope





AN ACT

amending section
15701, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to school curricula.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-701, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-701.Common school; promotions; requirements; certificate;
supervision of eighth grades by superintendent of high school district; high
school admissions; academic credit; definition
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Prescribe a minimum course of study, as defined
in section 15101 and incorporating the academic standards adopted by the
state board of education, to be taught in the common schools. The minimum course of study shall include instruction in
cursive reading and writing to ensure that pupils, by the end of grade five,
are able to create readable documents through legible cursive handwriting.
2.Prescribe competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the eighth grade and competency requirements for the
promotion of pupils from the third grade incorporating the academic standards
in at least the areas of reading, writing, mathematics, science and social
studies. Notwithstanding section 15521, paragraph 4, the competency
requirements for the promotion of pupils from the third grade shall include the
following:
(a)A requirement that a pupil not be promoted from
the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level or
the equivalent as established by the board. A pupil may not be retained if
data regarding the pupil's performance on the Arizona instrument to measure
standards test, or a successor test, is not available before the start of the
following academic year. A pupil who is not retained due to the unavailability
of test data must receive intervention and remedial strategies pursuant to
subdivision (c) of this paragraph if the third grade assessment data
subsequently demonstrates that the pupil's reading ability falls far below the
third grade level or the equivalent.
(b)A mechanism to allow a school district governing
board or the governing body of a charter school to promote a pupil from the
third grade who obtains a score on the reading portion of the Arizona
instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that demonstrates
that the pupil's reading falls far below the third grade level for any of the
following:
(i)A good cause exemption if the pupil is an
English learner or a limited English proficient student as defined in section
15751 and has had fewer than two years of English language instruction.
(ii)A pupil who is in the process of a special
education referral or evaluation for placement in special education, or a pupil who has been diagnosed as having a
significant reading impairment, including dyslexia, or a pupil who is a child with a disability
as defined in section 15761 if the pupil's individualized education
program team and the pupil's parent or guardian agree that promotion is
appropriate based on the pupil's individualized education program.
(c)Intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education for pupils who are not promoted from the third
grade. A school district governing board or the governing body of a charter
school shall offer at least one of the intervention and remedial strategies
developed by the state board of education. The parent or guardian of a pupil
who is not promoted from the third grade and the pupil's teacher and principal
may choose the most appropriate intervention and remedial strategies that will
be provided to that pupil. The intervention and remedial strategies developed
by the state board of education shall include:
(i)A requirement that the pupil be assigned to a
different teacher for reading instruction.
(ii)Summer school reading instruction.
(iii)In the next academic year, intensive reading
instruction that occurs before, during or after the regular school day, or any
combination of before, during and after the regular school day.
(iv)Online reading instruction.
3.Provide for universal screening of pupils in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs and grades one through three that is
designed to identify pupils who have reading deficiencies pursuant to section
15704.
4.Develop intervention and remedial strategies
pursuant to paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this subsection for pupils in
kindergarten programs and grades one through three who are identified as having
reading deficiencies pursuant to section 15704.
5.Distribute guidelines for the school districts to
follow in prescribing criteria for the promotion of pupils from grade to grade
in the common schools.These guidelines shall include recommended
procedures for ensuring that the cultural background of a pupil is taken into
consideration when criteria for promotion are being applied.
B.School districts and charter schools shall
provide annual written notification to parents of pupils in kindergarten
programs and first, second and third grades that a pupil who obtains a score on
the reading portion of the Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a
successor test, that demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third
grade level will not be promoted from the third grade.If the school
has determined that the pupil is substantially deficient in reading before the
end of grade three, the school district or charter school shall provide to the
parent of that pupil a separate written notification of the reading deficiency
that includes the following information:
1.A description of the current reading services
provided to the pupil.
2.A description of
the available supplemental instructional services and supporting programs that
are designed to remediate reading deficiencies. Each school district or charter
school shall offer at least one intervention strategy and at least one remedial
strategy for pupils with reading deficiencies.The notification
shall list the intervention and remedial strategies offered and shall instruct
the parent or guardian to choose the strategy that will be implemented for that
child.
3.Parental strategies to assist the pupil to attain
reading proficiency.
4.A statement that the pupil will not be promoted
from the third grade if the pupil obtains a score on the reading portion of the
Arizona instrument to measure standards test, or a successor test, that
demonstrates the pupil is reading far below the third grade level, unless the
pupil is exempt from mandatory retention in grade three or the pupil qualifies
for an exemption pursuant to subsection A of this section.
5.A description of the school district or charter
school policies on midyear promotion to a higher grade.
C.Pursuant to the guidelines that the state board
of education distributes, the governing board of a school district shall:
1.Prescribe curricula that include the academic
standards in the required subject areas pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 1
of this section. The curricula shall
include instruction in cursive reading and writing.
2.Prescribe criteria for the promotion of pupils
from grade to grade in the common schools in the school
district.These criteria shall include accomplishment of the
academic standards in at least reading, writing, mathematics, science and
social studies, as determined by district assessment.Other criteria
may include additional measures of academic achievement and attendance.
D.The governing board may prescribe the course of
study and competency requirements for promotion that are in addition to or
higher than the course of study and competency requirements the state board
prescribes.
E.A teacher shall determine whether to promote or
retain a pupil in grade in a common school as provided in section 15521,
paragraph 4 on the basis of the prescribed criteria.The governing
board, if it reviews the decision of a teacher to promote or retain a pupil in
grade in a common school as provided in section 15342, paragraph 11,
shall base its decision on the prescribed criteria.
F.A governing board may provide and issue
certificates of promotion to pupils whom it promotes from the eighth grade of a
common school. Such certificates shall be signed by the principal or
superintendent of schools. Where there is no principal or superintendent of
schools, the certificates shall be signed by the teacher of an eighth
grade.The certificates shall admit the holders to any high school
in the state.
G.Within any high school district or union high
school district, the superintendent of the high school district shall supervise
the work of the eighth grade of all schools employing no superintendent or
principal.
H.A school district shall not deny a pupil who is between
the ages of sixteen and twentyone years admission to a high school
because the pupil does not hold an eighth grade
certificate.Governing boards shall establish procedures for
determining the admissibility of pupils who are under sixteen years of age and
who do not hold eighth grade certificates.
I.The state board of education shall adopt rules to
allow common school pupils who can demonstrate competency in a particular
academic course or subject to obtain academic credit for the course or subject
without enrolling in the course or subject.
J.A school district may conduct a ceremony to honor
pupils who have been promoted from the eighth grade.
K.For the purposes of this section,
"dyslexia" means a brain-based learning difference that impairs a
person's ability to read and spell, that is independent of intelligence and that
typically causes a person to read at levels lower than expected. END_STATUTE

