







REFERENCE TITLE: correctional programs; recidivism; study
  committee







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1204









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING THE
CORRECTIONAL PROGRAMs and recidivism STUDY COMMITTEE.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Correctional programs and recidivism study committee
membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The correctional programs and recidivism study
committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.Three members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, not more than two
of whom are from the same political party. The speaker of the house of
representatives shall designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson
of the committee.
2.Three members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate, not more than two of whom are from the same
political party. The president of the senate shall designate one of these
members to serve as cochairperson of the committee.
3.One supreme court justice who is appointed by the
chief justice of the supreme court.
4.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
5.One employee of the state department of
corrections who has experience with inmate education and who is appointed by
the director of the state department of corrections.
6.The following persons who are appointed by the
governor:
(a)One person who is a resident of this state, who
was incarcerated in a state department of corrections facility for at least one
year and who advocates for or works for an organization that advocates for
prisoner rights.
(b)One former judge who served in the superior
court.
(c)One person who is employed by an entity that
provides transitional services to recently released prisoners.
(d)Two faculty members from a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents who have experience in law,
criminology or sociology or any other relevant field.
(e)One employee of an entity that provides
addiction treatment services in this state.
B.The study committee shall research and report on
the following:
1.The correlation between recidivism and monies
spent on educational and vocational programs for inmates and former inmates of
the state department of corrections.
2.The number of educational and vocational programs
available to inmates and former inmates of the state department of corrections.
3.The effectiveness of educational and vocational
programs available to inmates and former inmates of the state department of
corrections in reducing recidivism.
C.On request of the study committee, an agency of
this state, a political subdivision of this state or a private prison facility
operating in this state shall provide the study committee with its services,
equipment, documents, personnel and facilities to the extent possible without
cost to the committee.
D.The legislature shall provide staff and support
services to the study committee.
E.The study committee shall meet at any places
deemed necessary or convenient by the cochairpersons.
F.Members of the study committee are not eligible
to receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant
to title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
G.The study committee shall submit a report of its
findings and any recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate
and the speaker of the house of representatives on or before December 1, 2017
and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
H.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2018.

