







REFERENCE TITLE: animal cruelty; sentencing; bond







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1227









Introduced by
Senators
  Kavanagh, Farley, Hobbs, Smith; Representatives Lawrence, Meyer: Senator
  Dial; Representatives Boyer, Mesnard, Norgaard, Townsend, Weninger





AN ACT

amending sections
132910 and 134281, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to animal
cruelty.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.Cruelty to animals; interference with working or service
animal; classification; definitions
A.A person commits cruelty to animals if the person
does any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly subjects
any animal under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or
abandonment.
2.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly fails to provide
medical attention necessary to prevent protracted suffering to any animal under
the person's custody or control.
3.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly inflicts
unnecessary physical injury to any animal.
4.Recklessly subjects any animal to cruel
mistreatment.
5.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly kills any
animal under the custody or control of another person without either legal
privilege or consent of the owner.
6.Recklessly interferes with, kills or harms a
working or service animal without either legal privilege or consent of the
owner.
7.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly leaves an
animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle and physical injury to or
death of the animal is likely to result.
8.Intentionally or knowingly subjects any animal
under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment that
results in serious physical injury to the animal.
9.Intentionally or knowingly subjects any animal to
cruel mistreatment.
10.Intentionally or knowingly interferes with,
kills or harms a working or service animal without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner.
11.Intentionally or knowingly allows any dog that
is under the person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause
physical injury to a service animal.
12.Recklessly allows any dog that is under the
person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause physical injury to
a service animal.
13.Intentionally or knowingly obtains or exerts
unauthorized control over a service animal with the intent to deprive the
service animal handler of the service animal.
14. Intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly hoards animals.
B.It is a defense to subsection A of this section
if:
1.Any person exposes poison to be taken by a dog
that has killed or wounded livestock or poison to be taken by predatory animals
on premises owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
protecting the person or the person's livestock or poultry, the treated
property is kept posted by the person who authorized or performed the treatment
until the poison has been removed and the poison is removed by the person
exposing the poison after the threat to the person or the person's livestock or
poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall provide adequate
warning to persons who enter the property by the point or points of normal
entry. The warning notice that is posted shall be readable at a distance of
fifty feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall state the
word "danger" or "warning".
2.Any person uses poisons in and immediately around
buildings owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
controlling wild and domestic rodents as otherwise allowed by the laws of the
state, excluding any furbearing animals as defined in section 17101.
C.This section does not prohibit or restrict:
1.The taking of wildlife or other activities
permitted by or pursuant to title 17.
2.Activities permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
3.Activities regulated by the Arizona game and fish
department or the Arizona department of agriculture.
D.A peace officer, animal control enforcement agent
or animal control enforcement deputy may use reasonable force to open a vehicle
to rescue an animal if the animal is left in the vehicle as prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 7 of this section.
E.A person who is convicted of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 6 or 10 of this section is liable as follows:
1.If the working or service animal was killed or
disabled, to the owner or agency that owns the working or service animal and
that employs the handler or to the owner or handler for the replacement and
training costs of the working or service animal and for any veterinary bills.
2.To the owner or agency that owns a working or service
animal for the salary of the handler for the period of time that the handler's
services are lost to the owner or agency.
3.To the owner for the owner's contractual losses
with the agency.
F.An incorporated city or town or a county may
adopt an ordinance with misdemeanor provisions at least as stringent as the
misdemeanor provisions of this section, except that any ordinance adopted shall
not prohibit or restrict any activity involving a dog, whether the dog is
restrained or not, if the activity is directly related to the business of
shepherding or herding livestock and the activity is necessary for the safety
of a human, the dog or livestock or is permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
G.A person who violates subsection A, paragraph 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 12 or 14 of this section is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor. A person who commits a
second or subsequent violation of subsection A, paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
12 or 14 of this section or who violates subsection A, paragraph
8, 9, 10, 11 or 13 of this section is guilty of a class 6 felony.
H.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Animal"
means a mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian.
2."Cruel mistreatment" means to torture
or otherwise inflict unnecessary serious physical injury on an animal or to
kill an animal in a manner that causes protracted suffering to the animal.
3."Cruel neglect" means to fail to
provide an animal with necessary
food that is sufficient in quantity to
meet the needs of the animal and is fit for consumption by the animal,
water that is suitable for drinking and
in sufficient quantity to meet the needs of the animal or shelter that is appropriate for the animal and the
weather conditions where the animal is kept.
4."Handler" means a law enforcement
officer or any other person who has successfully completed a course of training
prescribed by the person's agency or the service animal owner and who used a
specially trained animal under the direction of the person's agency or the
service animal owner.
5."Hoards
animals" means to possess animals in a quantity and manner that fail to
provide minimal standards of nutrition, sanitation, medical care or treatment
for each of the animals.
5.6."Service
animal" means an animal that has completed a formal training program, that
assists its owner in one or more daily living tasks that are associated with a
productive lifestyle and that is trained to not pose a danger to the health and
safety of the general public.
6.7."Working
animal" means a horse or dog that is used by a law enforcement agency,
that is specially trained for law enforcement work and that is under the
control of a handler. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 13-4281, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4281.Animal seizure; notification; forfeiture; bond; hearing;
exceptions
A.A peace officer, county enforcement agent or
animal control officer who lawfully seizes an animal pursuant to section 132910
shall affix a notice of seizure in a conspicuous place where the animal was
found or personally deliver the notice of seizure to the owner or keeper of the
animal, if known or ascertainable after reasonable investigation. The officer
or agent shall file proof of service with the court. If it is determined that
the suffering of the animal does not require humane destruction, the notice
shall include the following:
1.The name, business address and telephone number
of the person providing the notice.
2.A description of the seized animal.
3.The authority and purpose for the seizure,
including the time, place and circumstance under which the animal was seized.
4.A statement that in order to receive a
postseizure hearing the owner or person authorized to keep the animal, or the
owner or person's agent, shall request the hearing by signing and returning to
the court an enclosed declaration of ownership or right to keep the animal
within ten days, including weekends and holidays, after the date of the notice.
5.A statement that the owner is responsible for the
cost of care for an animal that was properly seized and that the owner is
required to post a bond in the amount of twentyfive
two hundred fifty dollars
per animal with the court to defray the cost of care.
6.A warning that if the owner fails to post a bond
within ten days after the seizure, the animal will be deemed abandoned and
become the property of the seizing agency.
B.On receipt of a declaration of ownership and
postseizure hearing request, the justice of the peace or city magistrate shall
set a hearing date within fifteen business days.At the hearing, the
seizing agency shall have the burden of establishing by a preponderance of
evidence that the animal was subjected to cruel mistreatment, cruel neglect or
abandonment in violation of section 132910 or will suffer needlessly if
humane destruction is delayed. On this finding, the court may terminate the
owner's rights in the animal and transfer the rights to the seizing agency or a
designated animal care agency and shall forfeit the bond to pay the expenses
incurred for the housing, care and treatment of the animal. If at the
conclusion of the hearing the animal is not forfeited under this section, the
court shall order the bond exonerated and returned to the owner.
C.If the owner or person authorized to keep the
animal fails to post bond as prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 5 of this
section, fails to request a hearing or fails to attend a scheduled hearing, the
animal is deemed abandoned and all rights of the owner in the animal are
transferred to the seizing agency.
D.This section does not apply to any of the
following:
1.Activities permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
2.The seizure of an equine pursuant to section 31721.
3.A city, town or county that adopts or has adopted
an ordinance or resolution providing for bonding and forfeiture of an animal
that has suffered cruel mistreatment or cruel neglect if the ordinance or
resolution imposes requirements that are equal to or more stringent than this section. END_STATUTE

