








REFERENCE TITLE: pest management division







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1270









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

amending section
3102, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 244,
section 3; Amending sections 3363 and 3374, Arizona Revised
Statutes; Amending title 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 20;
providing for transferring and renumbering; amending sections 33601, 33603,
33604, 33605, 33606, 33611, 33612, 3-3613,
3-3615, 3-3616, 3-3618, 33621, 33623, 33624, 3-3625 and
3-3631, Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered; amending
section 32-1121, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 322303,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 36-606, 36-898 and 411092,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to pest management.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 3-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 244, section 3, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-102.Department organization
A.The Arizona department of agriculture is
established consisting of the following divisions:
1.The animal services division, which is
responsible for milk, dairy, livestock and aquaculture regulation, the state
veterinarian, meat, poultry and egg inspection and performing the
administrative functions authorized or contracted pursuant to law for the
Arizona beef council.
2.The plant services division, which is responsible
for the fruit and vegetable standardization program and entomological services.
3.The environmental services division, which is
responsible for regulating seed, feed and agricultural chemicals, including
pesticides and fertilizers, and for native plant protection.
4.The weights and measures services division, which
is responsible for the inspection, testing and licensing of commercial weighing
and measuring devices.
5.The pest management division, which is
responsible for regulating pest management and pest management services as
defined in section 33601.
B.The following are established in addition to and
separate from the divisions of the department:
1.A state agricultural laboratory.
2.An office of agriculture safety.
3.An office of inspections.
4.An office of commodity development and promotion.
C.The department shall have a central
administrative service office providing:
1.Data processing, accounting and budgeting,
records management, publications, property control and personnel services and
training.
2.A program to crosstrain appropriate
personnel to enable them to perform similar functions or comparable work for
different administrative units in the department. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 3-363, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-363.Rules
The director shall adopt rules to regulate pesticides that
include provisions to:
1.Administer and implement this article.
2.Prescribe measures to control, monitor, inspect
and govern pesticide use.
3.Prohibit or restrict pesticide use.
4.Restrict the areas in which pesticide use may
occur.
5.Prescribe minimum qualifications for all persons
who engage in pesticide use, including, as appropriate, requirements that the
persons have valid licenses, permits or certificates, have adequate training,
including continuing education requirements, and meet financial responsibility
standards.
6.Prescribe appropriate record keeping recordkeeping and reporting requirements
regarding pesticide use, except that the record
keeping recordkeeping
and reporting requirements for growers and certified private applicators who
apply pesticides shall be equivalent to, but not more stringent than, the
requirements prescribed under the federal insecticide, fungicide and
rodenticide act (61 Stat. 163) and the food, agriculture, conservation and
trade act of 1990 (P.L. 101624; 104 Stat. 3359).
7.Prohibit pesticide use that is inconsistent with
the pesticide label as required under the federal insecticide, fungicide and
rodenticide act (61 Stat. 163).
8.Exempt from regulation under this article
pesticide use that is regulated in title
32, chapter 22 20 of this title.
9.Issue licenses, permits and certificates for
pesticide use, as appropriate, having terms of one or more years.
10.Charge and collect the following fees for each
permit, license and certification under this article:
(a)Not to
exceed more than twenty
dollars per year for a grower permit.
(b)Not to
exceed more than one
hundred dollars per year for a seller permit.
(c)Not to
exceed more than one
hundred dollars per year for a custom applicator license.
(d)Not to
exceed more than fifty
dollars per year for a pilot license.
(e)Not to
exceed more than fifty
dollars per year for a pest control advisor license.
(f)Not to
exceed more than twentyfive
dollars per year for a piece of equipment used to apply pesticides by a custom
applicator.
(g)Not to
exceed more than fifty
dollars per year for restricted use certification.
(h)Not to
exceed more than the
amount set by the director by rule for a license or certificate for pesticide
use on golf courses. 
11.Establish a nonexclusive list of acts and
omissions that constitute serious, nonserious and de minimis violations of this
article.
12.Establish a system of administrative penalties
and fines for violations of this article and any rules adopted under this
article. Under this system:
(a)Violators shall be assessed a number of points
for each violation, depending on such factors as:
(i)Potential and actual consequences of the
violation on public and worker health and safety and the environment.
(ii)The wrongfulness of the conduct.
(iii)The degree of culpability of the violator.
(iv)The duration of the violation.
(v)Prior violations or citations.
(b)Penalties shall be assessed depending on the
number of points accrued by the violator. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 3-374, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-374.Availability of information to the public
A.Any records, reports or information obtained from
any person under this article, including records, reports or information
obtained or prepared by the department, shall be available to the public,
except that the information, or a particular part of the information, shall be
considered confidential on either:
1.A showing, satisfactory to the director, by any
person that the information, or a particular part of the information, if made
public, would divulge the trade secrets of the person.
2.A determination by the attorney general that
disclosure of the information, or a particular part of the information, would
be detrimental to an ongoing investigation by the director.
3.A determination by the attorney general that
disclosure of the information or a particular part of the information would be
detrimental to an ongoing criminal investigation or to an ongoing or
contemplated civil enforcement action under this article in superior court.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the following information
shall be available to the public:
1.The name and address of any permit applicant or
permittee.
2.Information contained in or derivable from the
pesticide label or the relevant material
safety data sheet.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the director may disclose
any records, reports or information obtained from any person under this
article, including records, reports or information obtained by the department,
to:
1.Other state employees concerned with
administering this article or if relevant to any administrative or judicial
proceeding under this article.
2.Employees of the United States environmental
protection agency if such information is necessary or required to administer
and implement or comply with applicable federal law. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Title 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding chapter 20, to read:
CHAPTER 20
PEST MANAGEMENT DIVISION
Sec.5.Transfer and renumber
Title 32, chapter 22, articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, Arizona Revised
Statutes, are transferred and renumbered for placement in title 3, chapter 20,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act, as articles 1, 2, 3 and 4,
respectively. The following sections are transferred and renumbered for
placement in title 3, chapter 20, article 1:
Former Sections New
Sections
322301...................................33601
322302...................................33602
322304...................................33603
322305...................................33604
322306...................................33605
322307...................................33606
The following sections are transferred and renumbered for
placement in title 3, chapter 20, article 2:
Former Sections New
Sections
322311...................................33611
322311.01................................33612
322311.02................................33613
322312...................................33614
322313...................................33615
322314...................................33616
322315...................................33617
322317...................................33618
The following sections are transferred and renumbered for
placement in title 3, chapter 20, article 3:
Former Sections New
Sections
322321...................................33621
322323...................................33622
322324...................................33623
322325...................................33624
322326...................................33625
322327...................................33626
The following sections are transferred and renumbered for
placement in title 3, chapter 20, article 4:
Former Sections New
Sections
322331...................................33631
322332...................................33632
322333...................................33633
Sec.6.Section 3-3601, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Branch office" means any fixed place
of business, other than the primary office, where records are kept, mail is
received, statements are rendered, money is collected, requests for service or
bids are received, information pertaining to the business of pest management is
given or pesticides are stored or disposed of.
2."Branch supervisor" means a certified
applicator working at or from a branch office who is responsible for ensuring
the training, equipping and supervision of all applicators of the branch
office.
3."Business license" means a license that
is issued pursuant to this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this chapter to
a person and that entitles that person and the person's employees to engage in
the business of pest management.
4."Business of pest management" means
engaging in, offering to engage in, advertising for, soliciting or performing
pest management, including any of the following:
(a)Identifying infestations
or making inspections for the purpose of identifying or attempting to identify
infestations.
(b)Making written or oral inspection reports,
recommendations, estimates or bids with respect to infestations.
(c)The application of pesticides or the making of
contracts or submitting of bids for the application of pesticides or the use of
devices for the purpose of eliminating, exterminating, controlling or
preventing infestations.
5."Certified applicator" means an
individual who is licensed by the office division to provide pest
management services in accordance with this chapter.
6."Certified qualified applicator" means
a certified applicator who is eligible to act as a qualifying party.
7."Child care facility" means a facility
that is regulated pursuant to title 36, chapter 7.1.
8."De minimis violation" means a
violation that, although undesirable, has no direct or immediate relationship
to safety, health or property damage.
9."Department"
means the Arizona department of agriculture.
10.9."Device"
means any instrument or contrivance that is intended to be used for trapping,
destroying, repelling or mitigating any pest or other form of plant or animal
life.
11.10."Direct
supervision" means the use of a pesticide under the instructions, control
and responsibility of a certified applicator who is available if needed for
consultation or assistance even though the certified applicator is not
physically present at the time and place the pesticide is used.
12."Director"
means the director of the Arizona department of agriculture.
11."Division"
means the pest management division of the department.
13.12."Final
grade treatment" means the establishment of a complete vertical barrier at
the exterior of foundation walls in stem wall or monolithic construction.
14.13."Financial
security" means liability insurance, a deposit of cash or certified
monies, a surety bond or an irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit from
an Arizona or a federally chartered financial
institution or a financial institution
as defined in section 6101.
15.14."Household
pests" means pests, other than wooddestroying organisms, that
invade households or other structures, including rodents, vermin and insects.
16.15."Immediate
supervision" means the use of a pesticide by an individual acting under
the instructions, control and responsibility of a certified applicator who is
within the direct line of sight or within hearing distance of the individual
and who is available for consultation or assistance at the time and place the
pesticide is used.
17.16."Initial
corrective treatment" means the first postconstruction treatment of any
kind performed by a licensee, excluding a treatment performed under warranty by
a licensee who has performed the pretreatment or new-construction treatment.
18.17."Inquiry"
means an initial investigation of possible violations of this chapter or rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter based on information received from the public
or office division staff.
19.18."Integrated
pest management" means a sustainable approach to managing pests that
combines biological, cultural, physical and chemical tools in a way that
minimizes economic, health and environmental risks.
20.19."New-construction
treatment" means a treatment that protects all cellulose components of a
structure from subterranean termites and that is performed after a permanent
concrete slab foundation is installed or footings and supports for a raised
foundation are installed, but before the structure or a final grade treatment
is completed.
21."Office"
means the office of pest management established by section 32-2303.
22.20."Other
structures" includes railroad cars, boats, docks, motor vehicles or
airplanes and their contents.
23.21."Pest
management":
(a)Means the management of health-related pests,
aquatic pests, household pests, wood-destroying organisms or other pests,
including weeds, that exist in, near or around structures, in ornamental shrubs
and trees, along rights-of-way or in lawns or cemeteries and all pesticide
applications that could be harmful to public health or the environment.
(b)Includes the management by persons for hire of
health-related pests, aquatic pests, household pests, wood-destroying organisms
or other pests, including weeds, that exist on golf courses.
(c)Does not include pesticide applications used
directly in the commercial production of crops and animals or used not for hire
on golf courses.
24.22."Pest
management services" means identifying infestations or making inspections
for the purpose of identifying or attempting to identify infestations, making
written or oral inspection reports or recommendations with respect to
infestations and the application of pesticides or the use of devices not exempt
by section 322304 33603, subsection B,
paragraph 18 17 for the purpose of eliminating,
exterminating, controlling or preventing infestations.
25.23."Pesticide"
means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used for
preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating insects, fungi, bacteria,
microbes, weeds, rodents, predatory animals or any form of plant or animal life
that is, or that the director may declare to be, a pest and that may infest or
be detrimental to vegetation, humans, animals or households or be present in
any environment.
26.24."Political
subdivision" means a state agency, county, city, town, municipal
corporation or school district or a special district formed pursuant to title
48. 
27.25."Postconstruction
treatment" means a treatment to control wooddestroying organisms in
or around an existing structure performed after all soil disturbance associated
with construction is complete and after an applicator has completed an
inspection of the structure and a treatment proposal under section 322332 33632, subsections A and B. 
28.26."Pretreatment"
means a termite treatment that protects all cellulose components of a structure
from subterranean termites, that is performed before a permanent concrete slab
foundation is installed or in conjunction with establishing footings and
supports for a raised foundation and that establishes thorough and complete
horizontal and vertical treated barriers.
29.27."Prior
violation" means any violation for which disciplinary action was taken
within a fiveyear period before the date of the violation for which
current disciplinary action is sought.
30.28."Qualifying
party" means a certified qualified applicator registered with the office division as the individual responsible for
ensuring the training, equipping and supervision of all applicators of a
business licensee or school district.
31.29."School"
means any public or nonpublic institution, other than a child's home, that is
established for the purpose of offering instruction to pupils in programs for
preschool children with disabilities, kindergarten programs or any combination
of grades one through twelve and that qualifies as a school pursuant to section
15802.
32.30."Service
vehicle" means a motor vehicle, including a trailer attached to the motor
vehicle, that is used to transport equipment or pesticides for the business of
pest management.
33.31."Sterilant"
means a product that is designed for killing all live vegetation and preventing
all vegetation growth for twelve or more months.
34.32."Weed"
means any plant that grows where it is not wanted.
35.33."Wooddestroying
insect inspection report" means a written inspection report on a form
approved by the director that is prepared in connection with the sale or
refinancing of real property whether or not the report is used as part of the
transaction.
36.34."Wooddestroying
organisms" means organisms that attack, damage or destroy wood or woodderivative
products, but does not include birds or mammals. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 3-3603, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3603.Powers and duties of director
A.The director is responsible for administering
this chapter and shall:
1.Adopt rules that are necessary or proper to
administer and implement this chapter, including rules that may be more
stringent than a corresponding federal law for:
(a)Administrative provisions.
(b)Licensure, certification and registration
requirements and qualifications, including training and education requirements
and financial security standards.
(c)Health and safety provisions.
(d)Duties and responsibilities.
(e)Recordkeeping and production of records
requirements.
(f)Licensee inspection and treatment report
requirements.
(g)Disciplinary action provisions.
(h)Equipment provisions.
(i)Advertising requirements.
(j)The use, storage and application of pesticides
and devices used in pest management.
2.Notify the business licensee, applicator and
qualifying party in writing of any inquiry into possible violations by the
business licensee, applicator or qualifying party by the close of business on
the tenth business day after the day on which the director initiated the
inquiry if the director anticipates an enforcement action.If in the
course of the investigation the office division identifies any
alleged violations by a different business licensee, applicator or qualified
party, the director shall notify the additional alleged violator by the close
of business on the tenth business day after the day on which the director
initiated the new inquiry. 
3.Develop and either conduct or contract to conduct
certified applicator and certified qualified applicator tests at locations
throughout this state. If the director contracts for these tests, the
contracts may provide for specific examination fees or a reasonable range of
fees determined by the director to be paid directly to the contractor by the
applicant.The director shall make all efforts to contract with
private parties to electronically administer the tests.
4.Maintain a computer system for the benefit and
protection of the public that includes the following information on
pretreatments, newconstruction treatments, final grade treatments,
initial corrective treatments and wooddestroying insect inspection
reports:
(a)The name of the individual who performed the
work.
(b)The address or location of the work or project.
(c)The name of the pest management company.
(d)The name of the qualifying party.
(e)The applicator license numbers.
(f)The nature and date of the work performed.
(g)Any other information that is required by rule.
5.Establish offices the director deems necessary to
carry out the purposes of this chapter.
6.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ
personnel the director deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter and designate their duties.
7.Oversee the approval, content and method of
delivery of continuing education courses.
8.Deny a license to any person who has had a
license revoked for a period of five years from the time of revocation.
9.License applicators and qualified applicators and
license businesses in accordance with this chapter and rules adopted pursuant
to this chapter.
10.Register qualifying parties, branch supervisors
and branch offices in accordance with this chapter and rules adopted pursuant
to this chapter.
11.Require the payment of a penalty for any late
license renewal.
12.Refuse to issue a business license in a name
that is not registered with the secretary of state or filed with the Arizona
corporation commission.
13.Adopt a wooddestroying insect inspection
report form for use by business licensees.
14.Receive
monies authorized under this chapter for deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in the appropriate funds.
B.The director may:
1.Compel attendance of witnesses, administer oaths
or affirmations and take testimony concerning all matters coming within the
director's jurisdiction.
2.Issue subpoenas for the taking of depositions,
the production of documents and things and the entry on land for inspection and
measuring, surveying, photographing, testing or sampling the property or any
designated object or operation on the property relevant to an inquiry or
complaint.
3.Contract and enter into interagency and
intergovernmental agreements with any private party or public agency.
4.With at least twentyfour hours' notice,
unless there may be an immediate risk to public health and safety, require a
business licensee, qualifying party or applicator to produce specific
records.On a showing of good cause by the business licensee,
qualifying party or applicator, the director may excuse failure to timely
comply.
5.Deny or revoke a license based on the information
in the application.
6.Issue advisory notices for de minimis violations.
7.Investigate alleged violations of this chapter,
rules adopted pursuant to this chapter, consent agreements, orders and any
condition imposed in connection with a license.
8.Require the public to provide notices regarding
alleged violations in writing.
9.Pursuant to section 41-1092.11, summarily suspend
a license issued under this chapter to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
10.Issue a corrective work order requiring a
business licensee or applicator to remedy deficiencies in treatment or to
comply with this chapter or any rules adopted pursuant to this chapter before
or after a formal hearing.
11.Do at
least one of the following in relation to unlicensed pest management business
operations, unless the operations do not require licensure On receipt of a complaint or on initiation of
a complaint by the division, investigate any alleged violation of unlicensed
activity pursuant to this chapter. If the director determines that an
unlicensed person is performing an act that is required to be performed by a
person licensed pursuant to this chapter, the director shall take one or more
of the following enforcement actions:
(a)Issue a cease and desist order requiring the business person to immediately cease operations.
(b)Impose on the owner of the business person a civil penalty of not more than one
thousand dollars for the first occurrence and not more than two thousand
dollars for the second or subsequent
occurrence.
(c)file an action to enjoin the
person from engaging in the unlicensed activity. 
(d)Request that the county attorney
or attorney general file charges against the person.
12.Refuse to issue a business license in a name
that is likely to be misleading or to imply any distorted representation about
the business.
13.Register a certified applicator who is a
representative of a business licensee as a temporary qualifying party if the
qualifying party becomes disassociated with the business licensee.
14.Provide and conduct classes to train individuals
in preparation for certified applicator and certified qualified applicator
tests. The director may assess a fee for each class.The director
may contract with a commercial enterprise or an accredited institution to
conduct the class.
15.Provide and conduct continuing education classes
quarterly. The director may assess a fee for each credit hour.The
director may contract with a commercial enterprise or an accredited institution
to conduct the class under the supervision of office division
staff.
16.Apply to
the appropriate court, through the attorney general or county attorney, for an
order enjoining any act or practice that constitutes a violation of this
chapter or any rule adopted pursuant to this chapter.
17.16.Enter into
consent agreements and issue consent orders.
18.17.Designate by
rule devices that are exempt from the licensure, certification and registration
requirements of this chapter.
19.18.Charge a person
for providing copies of rules, forms or policies proposed for adoption and for
educational materials.
20.19.Require a
business licensee or qualifying party to register with the office
division or to otherwise
identify all of the licensed or unlicensed applicators of the business or
supervised by the qualifying party.
21.20.Require a
business licensee to produce records for the purpose of verifying that an
individual is an applicator of the business licensee.
22.21.Charge a
handling fee in addition to the transaction amount for any transaction that
could have been completed electronically and was not.
23.22.Deny or refuse
to renew a license of a person who owes unpaid fees or civil penalties to the office division. 
C.The director or any duly authorized agents may
enter any private or public property, including a service vehicle, on which
pesticides are located or are reasonably believed to be located to be used for
purposes related to pest management or any office of a business engaged in pest
management. The owner, managing agent or occupant of the property or office
shall permit entry for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the use, storage, application and disposal of pesticides, including
worker safety materials and records pertaining to pest
management.If a person refuses to admit the director or the
authorized agent in accordance with this subsection, the director may obtain a
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.If a licensed or
certified person refuses to admit the director or an authorized agent in
accordance with this subsection during regular business hours, the director may
impose disciplinary action on the person.
D.The director or any duly authorized agents may
monitor compliance by a person with this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to
this chapter while the person is providing pest management services. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
3-3604, Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE3-3604.Pest management trust fund
A.The pest management trust fund is established for the exclusive
purpose of implementing, continuing and supporting the office division
and its objectives as established by this chapter.
B.Pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, the director shall deposit ten per cent
of all fees in the state general fund and deposit the remaining ninety per cent
in the pest management fund.All monies collected from civil
penalties shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
in the state general fund.
C.Monies
deposited in the pest management fund are exempt from the provisions of section
35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
B.The
director shall administer the trust fund as trustee. The state treasurer shall
accept, separately account for and hold in trust any monies deposited in the state
treasury, which are considered to be trust monies as defined in section 35310
and which shall not be commingled with any other monies in the state treasury
except for investment purposes. On notice from the director, the state
treasurer shall invest and divest any trust fund monies deposited in the state
treasury as provided by sections 35313 and 35314.03, and monies
earned from the investment shall be credited to the trust fund.
C.The
beneficiaries of the trust are the division programs established by this
chapter. Monies in the trust fund shall be disbursed as approved by the
director exclusively for the purposes prescribed in this chapter.
D.Surplus
monies, including any unexpended and unencumbered balance at the end of the
fiscal year, do not revert to the state general fund.
E.If the
division is terminated, any monies in the trust fund shall be expended to meet
EXISTING LEGAL obligations of the division. The director shall expend any
remaining monies on any program consistent with this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 3-3605, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3605.Pest management division council; members; duties
A.The
director shall establish by rule a pest management advisory committee division council to assist and make
recommendations to the director regarding the administration and implementation
of this chapter.The director shall appoint five members to the committee council, including one public member.
B.The pest
management division council shall:
1.Review
pest management policy in this state as established by law and administered by
the division.
2.Assist
the director in formulating administrative rules for the division, including
reviewing, advising and making recommendations to the director on proposed
rules before the rules are adopted and recommending and initiating the
rulemaking process for rules relating to this chapter.
3.Assist
the director in developing proposed budgets for the division.
4.Provide
additional assistance as the director deems necessary.
C.If the
director determines that the rulemaking recommendations of the pest management
division council are practicable and in the best interests of the pest
management industry and the public, the director shall accept the rulemaking
recommendations.If the director rejects the rulemaking
recommendations of the pest management division council, the director shall
provide a written explanation of the reasons for the rejection to the division
council not more than fifteen days after the director's decision to reject the
recommendations.
D.The
director shall include the comments of the pest management division council in
the official record when adopting rules or budgets for the division. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 3-3606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3606.Pesticide applications at schools and child care
facilities; advance notification; exemptions
A.Only a certified applicator may apply pesticides
at a school or child care facility.
B.A business licensee or certified applicator shall
notify a school or a child care facility at least seventytwo hours in
advance of any pesticide application in order to permit the school to comply
with section 15152 and the child care facility to comply with section 36898.The
seventytwo hour seventy-two-hour advance notice
shall include:
1.The
scheduled date and time
the application is to occur.The
seventytwo hour advance notice shall also include the brand name,
concentration, rate of application, pesticide label and material safety data
sheet and any use restrictions required by the pesticide label.
C.Immediately
before application of a pesticide, a business licensee or certified applicator
shall provide the school or child care facility with a written preapplication
notification containing the following information:
1.The brand
name, concentration and rate of application and any use restrictions required
by the label of the herbicide or specific pesticide.
2.The area or
areas where the pesticide is to be applied.
3.The date
and time the application is to occur.
4.The
pesticide label and the material safety data sheet.
D.The
pesticide label and material safety data sheet may be used in place of any
information required pursuant to subsections B and C of this section if the
information is already contained on the pesticide label or material safety data
sheet.
2.the
location and area of the application and the brand name of the pesticide or
pesticides to be applied.
3.The name,
address, phone number and contact person of the business licensee or certified
applicator.
4.A
statement that further information, the product label or the safety data sheet
is available by contacting the business licensee or certified applicator.
E.c.The following
pesticide applications are exempt from the notification requirement prescribed
by subsections subsection B and C of this section:
1.Nonresidual pesticide applications performed or
contracted by public health agencies for adult vector control, provided that
oral notification is attempted at least seventy-two hours before the
application, when possible, to the school office or child care facility office
with a statement of the pest problem, treatment procedure, area to be treated
and approximate time of the application.
2.Emergency applications of a pesticide that has a
toxicity category of III or IV pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 156.62 to control harmful pests that pose an immediate threat to the
public health. Under the circumstances described in this paragraph or paragraph
1 of this subsection, the business licensee or certified applicator shall do
all of the following:
(a)Notify the school office or child care facility
office before the application with a statement of the pest problem, treatment
procedure, area to be treated and approximate time of application.
(b)Immediately after the application has been
completed, notify the school office or the child care facility office of the
name of the pesticide applied, the formulation, the strength and dosage and the
date and time of application and provide the pesticide label.
(c)Post the treated area immediately after the
application.The posting shall be at least eight and one-half inches
by eleven inches and shall include the name of the pesticide, the registration
number issued by the United States environmental protection agency, the date
and time of application and the name and telephone number of the business
licensee and certified applicator. A copy of the posting shall also be placed
at the main entrance to the school or child care facility. The posting and the
copy of the posting shall remain in place for at least forty-eight hours after
the application.
3.Disinfectants or swimming pool chemicals.
4.Block, gel or paste-type bait that is a toxicity
category III or IV formulation of insecticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 156.62 and that is either of the following:
(a)Secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait
station and placed in an area that is inaccessible to children.
(b)Applied to a crack or crevice that is
inaccessible to children.
5.Block-type bait that is a toxicity level III or
IV formulation of rodenticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 156.62 and that is secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait
station placed in an area that is inaccessible to children.
6.Personal repellants.
7.Nonrestricted use sanitizers and deodorizers. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 3-3611, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3611.License and registration exemptions
A.The provisions of this chapter requiring
licensure and registration do not apply to:
1.Persons applying nonrestricted use pesticides on
residential property that they own and occupy or that they own and that is not
occupied.
2.Authorized representatives of any educational
institution engaged in research in the study of pest management or a state
agency engaged in research or the study of pest management.
3.Persons using a nonrestricted, ready-to-use
disinfectant, sanitizer or deodorizer.
4.A utility and the utility's employees if pest
management services are needed for an employee's health and safety in order for
the employee to continue performing work tasks.
5.Persons using an over-the-counter antimicrobial
to treat a swimming pool.
6.Persons using a device that is exempt pursuant to
section 322304 33603, subsection B,
paragraph 18 17. 
7.Persons who are exempt pursuant to section 322311.01 33612 or 322311.02 33613.
B.An individual is not required to have a separate
business license to engage in the business of pest management on behalf of a
business licensee or as an employee of a political subdivision.
C.The director by rule may exempt from sections 322313 33615 and 322314 3-3616 a certified applicator who performs
inspections but does not make recommendations, estimates, bids or contracts for
treatment or use pesticides or devices for pest management and may prescribe
alternative requirements and conditions. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 3-3612, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3612.Political subdivisions; exemptions; definition
A.A political subdivision that uses pesticides to
conduct pest management on property that is owned, leased or managed by the
political subdivision, including easements:
1.Is not required to be licensed under section 322313 33615.
2.Must provide the department with the name and
telephone number of the primary contact person or persons responsible for
responding to department inquiries or concerns regarding compliance with this
chapter. The primary contact person or persons at a minimum shall demonstrate
to the department:
(a)Where the records are retained.
(b)Where the personal protective equipment is
located.
(c)Where the pesticides are stored.
(d)That all applicators are properly certified.
B.A school district is exempt from subsection A,
paragraph 2 of this section, but shall have a qualifying party who is
registered in the appropriate categories.
C.An employee of a political subdivision who
provides pest management services must be a certified applicator except as
provided by subsection D of this section.
D.The following individuals are exempt from the
certification requirements of this chapter:
1.An employee of a
political subdivision who applied pesticides for the political subdivision no
more than ninety calendar days before certification.This exemption
does not apply to an employee who applies pesticides at a school or child care
facility.
2.An employee of a
political subdivision or designated agent while performing emergency response
or rescue services.
3.A volunteer of a
political subdivision while applying herbicides for the purpose of the
eradication and control of noxious weeds as defined in section 3201 and
who is under the immediate supervision of a certified
applicator.This exemption does not apply to a volunteer of a
political subdivision who:
(a)Applies herbicides at
a school or child care facility.
(b)Uses herbicides that
are labeled with the words "restricted use" or "danger".
(c)Uses sterilants.
(d)Uses application
equipment that holds more than four gallons of total mixed liquid herbicide.
(e)Has not completed an
herbicide application training program conducted by the political subdivision
and approved by the office division.
E.For the purposes of
this section, "volunteer" means a person who works without
compensation other than reimbursement of actual expenses incurred or
disbursement of meals or other incidental benefits. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 3-3613, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3613Landscapers; records; civil penalties
A.The provisions of this chapter requiring
licensure, and
registration do not apply to a person who conducts lawn, garden, shrub or tree
maintenance and who applies herbicides for the purpose of weed management,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
licensure, certification
and registration requirements of this chapter apply to a person who: 
1.Uses herbicides that are labeled with the words
"restricted use" or "danger".
2.Uses sterilants or
preemergent herbicides.
3.Offers weed
management as the person's primary service or advertises weed management
services.
4.Uses application equipment that collectively
holds more than four five gallons of total mixed
liquid herbicide at an address or project on the same day.
5.Uses more than twenty-five pounds of nonliquid
herbicide at an address or project on the same day.
6.Uses or is part of a crew of two or more
herbicide applicators at an address or project on the same day.
7.Uses an herbicide at a school or child care
facility.
8.Uses an herbicide at an address or project
without performing lawn, garden, shrub or tree maintenance at that address or
project on the same day.
C.A person who is exempt from licensure, certification and registration
pursuant to this section shall provide treatment records to each customer on
application of herbicides for the purpose of weed management and shall retain
records containing the same information provided to customers for at least six
months after the date of the treatment.For the purposes of this
subsection, treatment records must include the following: 
1.The address of the location of the herbicide
application.
2.The date of the herbicide application.
3.The trade name or common name of the herbicide
applied.
4.The amount of the herbicide applied.
5.The name of the individual who performed the
treatment.
D.If a person is exempt from licensure, certification and registration
pursuant to subsection A of this section but does not comply with subsection C
of this section, the director shall:
1.On
For a first violation,
issue a written notice of correction that contains a warning and a copy of this
section.
2.On
For a second violation,
impose a civil penalty of at least fifty dollars.
3.On
For a third or any
subsequent violation, impose a civil penalty of not more than one thousand
dollars.
E.If a person is not exempt from licensure, certification and registration
but uses an herbicide for the purpose of weed management, the director may:
1.Issue a cease and desist order and an
administrative warning.
2.On
For a first violation,
impose a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars.
3.On
For a second or any
subsequent violation, impose a civil penalty of not more than two thousand
dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 3-3615, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3615.Business license; financial security
A.A person who engages in the business of pest
management shall obtain a valid business license from the office
division. A person who is not exempt under this chapter and who
advertises for, solicits or claims to be willing to engage in the business of
pest management is presumed to be engaging in the business of pest management.
B.An application for an original or a renewal
business license shall:
1.Be in a form and include the information
prescribed by the director.
2.Be accompanied by the prescribed fee.
3.Include the following proof of financial
security:
(a)Either a deposit of money, liability insurance,
self-insured retention, a surety bond or a certified check protecting persons
who may suffer bodily injury or property damage as a result of the operations
of the applicant.The director shall not accept a bond or a
liability insurance policy unless it is issued by an insurer that holds a valid
certificate of authority or that is permitted to transact surplus lines
insurance in this state. The amount of the deposit, insurance, selfinsured
retention or bond shall be at least five hundred thousand dollars and shall be
maintained at not less than that amount at all times during the licensing
period.The license of a business licensee whose financial security
falls below the minimum five hundred thousand dollars shall be suspended by the
director and shall remain suspended until the security meets the minimum
financial security requirement.The financial security need only
cover those particular operations in which the licensee is engaged at any
time. If the financial security is in the form of liability insurance or a
surety bond, the licensee shall furnish the director with a certificate of
coverage that indicates the coverages and endorsements required by this
subsection on a form prescribed by the director.
(b)Either of the following if the business licensee
performs termite treatments:
(i)Proof of a surety bond in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars per business license for actual damages, including
reasonable costs of collection suffered by persons as a result of termite
damage due to negligent treatment.
(ii)Proof of a liability insurance policy rider in
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars per business license that covers
termite damage due to negligent treatment.
(c)If the business licensee provides wooddestroying
insect inspection reports, proof of a surety bond or a liability insurance policy
rider in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars per business license for
actual damages plus reasonable costs of collection suffered by persons as a
result of errors and omissions contained in the reports.
C.If an insurance policy provides for a deductible,
the deductible amount shall not exceed one per cent
percent of the total financial security for each occurrence. If
the deductible amount is in excess of one per cent percent of
the total financial security for each occurrence, the business licensee shall
provide other security as provided in this section or other evidence of
financial security for the excess deductible amount.
D.If the financial security is in the form of
liability insurance, a licensee shall maintain a coverage endorsement for
pesticides and herbicides, fumigation, care, custody and control, rightsofway,
wooddestroying insect inspection report errors and omissions and
pollution transit for its applicable license categories.
E.If the proof of financial security on file with
the office division expires, the business license is
automatically suspended until a current certificate of insurance or proof of
financial responsibility is furnished to the director. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section
3-3616, Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE3-3616.Qualifying party; registration
A.A person shall not
engage in the business of pest management in any category without a qualifying
party registered in that category.
B.To be a qualifying party, an individual must:
1.Be a certified qualified applicator.
2.Register as a qualifying party with the office division using a form and including the
information prescribed by the director.END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 3-3618, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3618.Fees
A.The director shall establish by rule and collect
application and renewal fees for the following:
1.A business license.
2.A branch office registration.
3.A branch supervisor registration.
4.A qualifying party registration.
5.A temporary qualifying party registration.
6.Temporary qualifying party renewal registration.
7.Applicator certification.
8.A qualified applicator certification.
9.An applicator registration.
10.A duplicate license.
B.The director may charge and collect late fees in
addition to the fees listed in subsection A of this section.
C.The director may establish tiered fees for
business licenses.
D.The director may charge and collect additional
fees for goods and services
that the director considers to be appropriate to carry out the intent and
purpose of this chapter. These additional fees shall not exceed the costs of providing the goods or rendering
the services. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 3-3621, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3621.Disciplinary action; grounds; procedure
A.If the director finds that a person has violated
this chapter, a rule adopted pursuant to this chapter or a written order of the
director, the director may issue a notice of violation and a cease and desist
order to the person and, after an opportunity for a hearing, take any of the
following disciplinary actions, in combination or alternatively:
1.Revoke a license or registration.
2.Suspend a license or registration.
3.Refuse to renew a license or registration.
4.Impose probation requirements that require a
person to comply with one or more specific provisions of this chapter or rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter and that require reporting by or monitoring of
the person.
5.Impose a civil penalty in an amount of not more
than one thousand dollars for each violation except for grounds prescribed in
section 322325 33624, subsection B,
paragraphs 8 and 9.
6.Require a qualifying party to report to the
director the qualifying party's role in the management of a business license.
7.Require an individual to take supplemental
continuing education within a time period set by the director.
B.Instead of taking disciplinary action for a
violation pursuant to subsection A of this section, the director may issue an
administrative warning.
C.Except as provided in section 411092.11,
the director may take disciplinary action against a business licensee pursuant
to subsection A of this section only if any of the following applies:
1.The business licensee has committed a prior
violation of the same type, including any violation by any applicator of the
business licensee.
2.The business licensee failed to follow a written
order of the director directing it to correct a deficiency or problem within
the time specified.
3.The business licensee has knowingly assumed
operations for a business licensee whose license has been revoked and during
the first three years after revocation allows the former licensee to play an
active role in company policy, decisions, sales or supervision of applicators.
4.The business licensee is convicted of a felony.
5.The business licensee is determined by the
director to have committed a violation in connection with a pretreatment,
new-construction treatment or final grade treatment.
6.The business licensee uses applicators to provide
pest management services that are not registered pursuant to the requirements
established under section 322304 33603, subsection B,
paragraph 20 19. 
7.The business licensee fails to provide written
notice immediately following a pest management treatment in or around
residential structures of four or fewer units to the person requesting the
treatment or to the person's designated agent. The notice shall include the
specific pesticide by trade name used in the treatment.
8.The business licensee performing pest management
treatments on an ongoing basis to locations other than residential structures
of four or fewer units fails to provide written notice to the person who
requested the treatments or the person's designated agent. Notice shall be
given before the first application of the pesticide and when new or additional
pesticides are used or immediately after each treatment.
9.If the treatments are performed in the interior
of residential units, the licensee fails to leave a notice in the interior of
each treated unit immediately after each treatment. The notice shall include
the pesticide by trade name and any other information as required by the
pesticide label or local ordinance.
10.A statement of precaution does not accompany
each notification of treatment required in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of this
subsection.Each statement of precaution shall be printed
conspicuously, in not less than eight-point type, and shall include the words:
Warningpesticides can be harmful. Keep
children and pets away from pesticide applications until dry, dissipated or
aerated.For more information contact [business license name and
business license number] at [telephone number].
11.The business licensee fails within thirty
calendar days after completion of a pretreatment, a new-construction treatment,
a final grade treatment, an initial corrective treatment project or a wooddestroying
insect inspection report to file with the office division,
in a form approved by the director, the termite action report form and
prescribed fee.
12.The business licensee, within twelve months
after completion of a termite pretreatment or new-construction treatment, fails
either to file a supplemental termite action report in a form provided by the
director that indicates the completion of the final grade treatment or to
report in writing why the treatment has not been completed and when it will be
completed.
13.The business licensee's applicator applies a
pesticide that causes harm to the public, the environment or a nontarget
animal.
14.The business licensee fails within thirty
calendar days to pay civil penalties imposed under this chapter or rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
15.The business licensee engages in the business of
pest management while the business license is suspended.
D.The director shall commence an inquiry only
within five years after the date of the alleged act or omission.
E.The director may issue an advisory notice stating
de minimis violations of statutes or rules that carry no penalty, unless the
person subject to this chapter wilfully and repeatedly violates the statute or
rule. For wilful and repeated violations, the director may take disciplinary
action against the person for a violation.
F.The license of a person who does not renew the
license and who has been advised in writing that an investigation or complaint
is pending at the time the license is due to expire or terminate does not
expire or terminate until the investigation or complaint is resolved. The
license is suspended on the date it would otherwise expire or terminate until
the person renews the license or the investigation or complaint is resolved.
G.The director may summarily suspend a person's
license while there is a pending criminal charge against the person for a
felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
Sec.18.Section
3-3623, Arizona Revised Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to
read:
START_STATUTE3-3623.Civil penalties; suspension 
A.The office
director may suspend a license, certification or registration
without a hearing if the licensee fails within thirty calendar days to pay
civil penalties imposed under this chapter or rules adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
B.A licensee whose license is suspended under
subsection A of this section must apply to the director for reinstatement.
C.A license, certification or registration
suspended under subsection A of this section shall be revoked without a hearing
after one year of suspension.Revocations under this subsection are
not subject to section 322304 33603, subsection A,
paragraph 8 7. 
D.The office division shall not renew a
license, certification or registration or broaden a certification until the
person suspended under subsection A of this section is reinstated. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 3-3624, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3624.Unlawful acts; violations; classification
A.A person shall not:
1.Engage in the business of pest management, commence work on a contract or sign, issue
or deliver any document expressing an opinion or statement relating to pest
management without a business license issued pursuant to this
chapter, unless the person is otherwise exempt pursuant to this chapter.
2.Engage in the business of pest management in any
category without a qualifying party who is registered in that category.
3.Operate a branch office without a registered
branch supervisor under whose direct supervision pesticide applications are
made out of that office.
4.Apply pesticides in any category other than wooddestroying
organism management or fumigation unless the person is an applicator certified
in that category or applies the pesticides under the direct supervision of an
applicator certified in that category.
5.Apply pesticides in the category of wooddestroying
organism management, aquatic pest management or fumigation unless the person is
an applicator certified in that category or the person applies the pesticides
under the immediate supervision of an applicator certified in that category.
6.Make recommendations regarding pest management
unless the person is a certified applicator.
7.Deny to an
authorized inspector the
director or any agent of the director the right to be present on
a jobsite in connection with a contemporaneous pest management treatment,
including for the purpose of taking pesticide samples and soil samples.
B.The following nonexclusive acts are grounds for
disciplinary action:
1.Violating this chapter, rules adopted pursuant to
this chapter or a written order of the director.
2.Making false or fraudulent records or reports.
3.Misrepresenting a material fact in obtaining a
license.
4.Applying pesticides in a manner that is
inconsistent with the label and labeling of the pesticide or that may cause
harm to the public, the environment or nontarget animals.
5.Misusing a pesticide if the misuse is due to the
failure of the person to properly train or supervise. Proper training includes
training to read and understand the label and labeling and to understand the
proper use of application equipment.Proper supervision includes
oversight of applicators to ensure general compliance with the label and
labeling and all applicable laws.
6.Authorizing, directing or abetting the
publication, advertisement, distribution or circulation of any false statement
or material misrepresentation concerning a business of pest management.
7.Engaging in the business of pest management or
providing pest management services under a suspended license.
8.Being convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor
arising from or in connection with a license issued pursuant to this chapter
after issuance of the license or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
9.Having had a license, or the equivalent, to apply
pesticides or engage in the business of pest management suspended or revoked in
another jurisdiction for cause.
10.Making a fraudulent statement or an intentional
material misrepresentation in connection with a wood treatment proposal or a
wooddestroying insect inspection report.
11.Having three or more de minimis violations of
this chapter or rules adopted under this chapter.
12.Failing to provide the director with a current
certificate of insurance or proof of financial responsibility.
13.Failing to
provide a proper final grade treatment within twelve months after the original
pretreatment or new-construction treatment.
14.Providing immediate
supervision of more uncertified applicators at a time than is authorized by
rule.
15.Failing to make and maintain true and accurate
records of treatments performed or wooddestroying insect inspection
reports, including those performed under warranty or guarantee, for at least
three years after the date of treatment or inspection.
16.Failing to make treatment records available on
request of the property owner or the property owner's authorized agent within
three business days.
17.Failing to permit the director or any duly
authorized agent to promptly inspect records pertaining to pest management
located at an office of a business licensee when an employee or the owner of
the business licensee is present at the business office and has access to the
records.
18.Failing to timely produce specific records
requested pursuant to section 322304 33603, subsection B,
paragraph 4.
19.Violating the terms of a consent agreement or
written order of the director.
c.A person
who violates subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section with reckless disregard
for the health and safety of other persons or property is guilty of a class 6
felony. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 3-3625, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3625.Business license; principals; definition
A.The office
director shall deny an
application for a new business license or a renewal of an existing business
license if a principal of the applicant was also a principal of another
business that currently owes past due termite action registration form fees,
owes civil penalties to the office
division or has had its
business license suspended or revoked within the last five years and was a
principal at the time the fees became due or the acts resulting in the
disciplinary action occurred. 
B.For the purposes of this section,
"principal" means a person who owns at least a ten per cent percent interest in a business. Principal includes an
owner that is itself a business as well as owners of a principal.END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 3-3631, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as transferred and renumbered, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE3-3631.Termite action report form; exemption
A.Within thirty calendar days after completion of a
pretreatment, a newconstruction treatment, a final grade treatment, an
initial corrective treatment or a wooddestroying insect inspection
report, a business licensee or certified applicator shall file with the office division in a form approved by the director a
termite action report form and the prescribed fee. A termite action report is
required for termite action only and does not include all wood-destroying
organisms. 
B.The termite action report form shall include:
1.The address or location of the work or project.
2.The type and date of the work.
3.The name of the business licensee.
4.Any other information required by rule.
C.The director may:
1.Adjust the fee upward or downward to a level that
is calculated to produce sufficient revenue to carry out the functions of wooddestroying
organism regulation.
2.Establish tiered fees according to the means of
submission to encourage electronic submission of the termite action report
form.
3.Assess a penalty of not more than one hundred
dollars per form for failing to submit the required form or fee, or both,
within thirty calendar days.
D.If the business licensee who performs an initial
corrective treatment performed the pretreatment or new-construction treatment
at the same site and filed a termite action report form with the office division
documenting the pretreatment or new-construction treatment, the
business licensee is exempt from this section with respect to the initial
corrective treatment. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 32-1121, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1121.Persons not required to be licensed; penalties;
applicability
A.This chapter shall not be construed to apply to:
1.An authorized representative of the United States
government, this state or any county, incorporated city or town, reclamation
district, irrigation district or other municipality or political subdivision of
this state.
2.Trustees of an express trust that is not formed
for the purpose of conducting business as a contractor or officers of a court,
if they are acting within the terms of their trust or office.
3.Public utilities operating under regulation of
the corporation commission or construction, repair or operation incidental to
discovering or producing petroleum or gas, or the drilling, testing, abandoning
or other operation of a petroleum or gas well, if performed by an owner or
lessee.
4.Any materialman, manufacturer or retailer who
furnishes finished products, materials or articles of merchandise and who does
not install or attach such items or installs or attaches such items if the
total value of the sales contract or transaction involving such items and the
cost of the installation or attachment of such items to a structure does not exceed
one thousand dollars, including labor, materials and all other items, but
excluding any electrical fixture or appliance that was designed by the
manufacturer, that is unaltered, unchanged or unmodified by any person, that
can be plugged into a common household electrical outlet utilizing a two pronged two-pronged or three pronged three-pronged electrical connector and that
does not use any other form of energy, including natural gas, propane or other
petroleum or gaseous fuel, to operate or is attached by a nail, screw or other
fastening device to the frame or foundation of any residential
structure.The materialman, manufacturer or retailer shall inform
the purchaser that the installation may also be performed by a licensed
contractor whose name and address the purchaser may request.
5.Owners of property who improve such property or
who build or improve structures or appurtenances on such property and who do
the work themselves, with their own employees or with duly licensed
contractors, if the structure, group of structures or appurtenances, including
the improvements thereto, are intended for occupancy solely by the owner and
are not intended for occupancy by members of the public as the owner's
employees or business visitors and the structures or appurtenances are not
intended for sale or for rent.In all actions brought under this
chapter, except an action against an owner-occupant as defined in section
33-1002, proof of the sale or rent or the offering for sale or rent of any such
structure by the ownerbuilder within one year after completion or
issuance of a certificate of occupancy is prima facie evidence that such
project was undertaken for the purpose of sale or rent.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "sale" or "rent" includes any
arrangement by which the owner receives compensation in money, provisions,
chattels or labor from the occupancy or the transfer of the property or the
structures on the property.
6.Owners of property who are acting as developers
and who build structures or appurtenances to structures on their property for
the purpose of sale or rent and who contract for such a project with a general
contractor licensed pursuant to this chapter and owners of property who are
acting as developers, who improve structures or appurtenances to structures on
their property for the purpose of sale or rent and who contract for such a
project with a general contractor or specialty contractors licensed pursuant to
this chapter.To qualify for the exemption under this paragraph, the
licensed contractors' names and license numbers shall be included in all sales
documents.
7.Architects or engineers who are engaging in their
professional practice as defined in chapter 1 of this title and who hire or
offer to hire the services of a contractor for preconstruction activities
relating to investigation and discovery, including:
(a)Subsurface utility location and designation
services.
(b)Potholing.
(c)Drilling for any of the following:
(i)Soil samples.
(ii)Rock samples.
(iii)Pavement samples.
(d)Locating existing features of a building or
structure, including existing electrical, mechanical, plumbing and structural
members.
8.A person licensed, certified or registered
pursuant to title 3, chapter
22 of this title 20 or a person working under
the direct supervision of a person certified or qualified pursuant to title 3, chapter 22 of this title 20 to the extent the person is engaged in pest
management.
9.The sale or installation of finished products,
materials or articles of merchandise that are not fabricated into and do not
become a permanent fixed part of the structure. This exemption does not apply
if a local building permit is required, if the total price of the finished
product, material or article of merchandise, including labor but excluding any
electrical fixture or appliance that was designed by the manufacturer, that is
unaltered, unchanged or unmodified by any person, that can be plugged into a
common household electrical outlet utilizing a two pronged two-pronged or three pronged three-pronged electrical connector and that
does not use any other form of energy, including natural gas, propane or other
petroleum or gaseous fuel, to operate or is attached by a nail, screw or other
fastening device to the frame or foundation of any residential structure, is
more than one thousand dollars or if the removal of the finished product,
material or article of merchandise causes damage to the structure or renders
the structure unfit for its intended use.
10.Employees of the owners of condominiums,
townhouses, cooperative units or apartment complexes of four units or less or
the owners' management agent or employees of the management agent repairing or
maintaining structures owned by them.
11.Any person who engages in the activities regulated
by this chapter, as an employee of an exempt property owner or as an employee
with wages as the person's sole compensation.
12.A surety company or companies that are
authorized to transact business in this state and that undertake to complete a
contract on which they issued a performance or completion bond, provided all
construction work is performed by duly licensed contractors.
13.Insurance companies that are authorized to
transact business in this state and that undertake to perform repairs resulting
from casualty losses pursuant to the provisions of a policy, provided all
construction work is performed by duly licensed contractors.
14.Any person other than a licensed contractor
engaging in any work or operation on one undertaking or project by one or more
contracts, for which the aggregate contract price, including labor, materials
and all other items, but excluding any electrical fixture or appliance that was
designed by the manufacturer, that is unaltered, unchanged or unmodified by any
person, that can be plugged into a common household electrical outlet utilizing
a two pronged two-pronged or three pronged three-pronged electrical connector and that
does not use any other form of energy, including natural gas, propane or other
petroleum or gaseous fuel, to operate or is attached by a nail, screw or other
fastening device to the frame or foundation of any residential structure, is
less than one thousand dollars.The work or operations that are
exempt under this paragraph shall be of a casual or minor
nature.This exemption does not apply:
(a)In any case in which the performance of the work
requires a local building permit.
(b)In any case in which the work or construction is
only a part of a larger or major operation, whether undertaken by the same or a
different contractor, or in which a division of the operation is made in
contracts of amounts less than one thousand dollars, excluding any electrical
fixture or appliance that was designed by the manufacturer, that is unaltered,
unchanged or unmodified by any person, that can be plugged into a common
household electrical outlet utilizing a two
pronged two-pronged or
three pronged threepronged electrical
connector and that does not use any other form of energy, including natural
gas, propane or other petroleum or gaseous fuel, to operate or is attached by a
nail, screw or other fastening device to the frame or foundation of any
residential structure, for the purpose of evasion of this chapter or otherwise.
(c)To a person who utilizes any form of advertising
to the public in which the person's unlicensed status is not disclosed by
including the words "not a licensed contractor" in the advertisement.
15.A person who is licensed, certified or
registered pursuant to title41, chapter 16 and who is not otherwise
required to be licensed under this chapter or an employee of such person.
16.A person who functions as a gardener by
performing lawn, garden, shrub and tree maintenance.
17.Alarm agents as defined in section 32101.
B.A person who is licensed to perform work in a
particular trade pursuant to this chapter shall not be required to obtain and
maintain a separate license for mechanical or structural service work performed
within the scope of such trade by such person.
C.Any person who does not have an exemption from
licensure pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 14, subdivision (c) of this
section is subject to prosecution for a violation of section 441522.
The attorney general may investigate the act or practice and take appropriate action
pursuant to title 44, chapter 10, article 7.
D.The exemptions from licensure pursuant to
subsection A, paragraphs 4, 9 and 14 of this section do not apply to either of
the following:
1.All fire safety and mechanical, electrical and
plumbing work that is done in connection with fire safety installation and fire
safety maintenance and repair. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "fire safety installation" means
hardwired or interconnected smoke alarms and fire sprinklers and does not
include an individual device that is attached by a nail, screw or other
fastening device to the frame or foundation of any residential
unit.For the purposes of this paragraph, fire safety maintenance
and repair does not include routine work that is conducted by an employee of an
apartment or condominium complex and that
is incidental to the fire safety equipment.
2.All work that is done, including the
installation, maintenance and repair of devices, appliances or equipment, that
involves the connecting to any supply of natural gas, propane or other
petroleum or gaseous fuel. Nothing in this paragraph impacts the effect of
section 361624.01. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Heading repeal
The chapter heading of title 32, chapter 22, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.24.Repeal
Section 32-2303,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.25.Section 36-606, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-606.Pesticide illness; medical education; reports
A.The director of the department of health services
shall develop and implement, in cooperation with rural health clinics, county
health departments, state and local medical associations, poison control
centers and other appropriate health care professionals, a system for reporting
and preventing pesticide provoked illnesses.This program shall
include:
1.Medical education programs to alert health care
professionals to the symptoms, diagnosis, treatment and reporting of pesticide
provoked illnesses.
2.A statewide reporting network, which shall:
(a)Require health care professionals and poison
control centers to file incident reports of an illness that they reasonably
believe, based on professional judgment, to be caused by or related to
documented exposure to a pesticide.
(b)Catalogue and retrieve data regarding pesticide
poisoning for use in worker and public health education programs to prevent
pesticide poisoning.
B.The health care professional or poison control
center required to file an incident report required pursuant to subsection A,
paragraph 2, subdivision (a) of this
section shall specifically indicate in the incident report the
reason for believing that the illness is caused by or related to documented
exposure to a pesticide and shall specify if the illness is caused by the
documented exposure or is related to the documented exposure.All
incident reports shall be filed with the director.The director
shall provide to the Arizona department of agriculture all records, reports and
information of all illnesses resulting from documented exposure to agriculture
pesticides and shall provide to the
office of pest management all records, reports and information of all illnesses
resulting from documented exposure to structural pesticides. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 36-898, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-898.Licensees; pesticide application; notice; definitions
A.The director, in consultation with licensees,
personnel of licensees, parents, guardians, administrators, members of the
public, a qualifying party and at least one health professional, shall develop
and adopt a policy to provide parents, guardians, children and personnel with
at least fortyeight hours' notice before pesticides are applied on
licensee property.
B.The policy shall include at least the following:
1.Procedures for providing the notification, including:
(a)Procedures for written notification to parents,
guardians or an individual authorized by a parent or guardian during a regular
child care session.
(b)Procedures for requiring the licensee to post
signs to identify pesticide application areas.
2.Procedures for requiring any contracted pest
control applicator to provide detailed and sufficient information to licensees
for the purpose of completing the posting materials.
C.The policy shall include exemptions for the following
pesticide applications:
1.Nonresidual pesticide applications performed or
contracted by public health agencies for adult vector control.
2.Emergency pesticide applications of a pesticide
that has a toxicity category of III or IV pursuant to 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 156.62 to control harmful pests that pose an immediate
threat to the public health.
3.Disinfectants or swimming pool chemicals.
4.Block, gel or paste-type bait that is a toxicity
category III or IV formulation of insecticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal
Regulations section 156.62 and that is either of the following:
(a)Secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait
station and placed in an area that is inaccessible to children.
(b)Applied to a crack or crevice inaccessible to
children.
5.Block-type bait that is a toxicity level III or
IV formulation of rodenticide pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations
section 156.62 and that is secured in an enclosed, tamper-resistant bait
station placed in an area inaccessible to children.
6.Personal repellants.
7.Any pesticide exempt from regulation by the
United States environmental protection agency pursuant to the federal
insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act (7 United States Code section 136w).
D.Each licensee
shall maintain written records of pesticide application notifications for a
period of at least three years after the application.The licensee
may delegate to the pest control applicator the duty to fill out and post
notices required by department policy. A licensee is not required to maintain
records of pesticides that are exempt pursuant to subsection C of this section.
E.For the purposes of this section:
1."Child care" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 36-881.
2."Department" means the department of
health services.
3."Licensee" means a person who is
regulated pursuant to this chapter.
4."Pesticides"
includes pesticides regulated under the federal insecticide, fungicide and
rodenticide act (P.L. 100532; 102 Stat. 2654; 7 United States Code
section 136) except for nonrestricted use disinfectants, sanitizers or
deodorizers regulated by the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide
act.
5."Qualifying party" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 322301 3-3601. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 41-1092, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrative law judge" means an
individual or an agency head, board or commission that sits as an
administrative law judge, that conducts administrative hearings in a contested
case or an appealable agency action and that makes decisions regarding the
contested case or appealable agency action.
2."Administrative law judge decision"
means the findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendations or decisions
issued by an administrative law judge.
3."Appealable agency action" means an action
that determines the legal rights, duties or privileges of a party and that is
not a contested case.Appealable agency actions do not include
interim orders by selfsupporting regulatory boards, rules, orders,
standards or statements of policy of general application issued by an
administrative agency to implement, interpret or make specific the legislation
enforced or administered by it or clarifications of interpretation, nor does it
mean or include rules concerning the internal management of the agency that do
not affect private rights or interests. For the purposes of this paragraph,
administrative hearing does not include a public hearing held for the purpose
of receiving public comment on a proposed agency action.
4."Director" means the director of the
office of administrative hearings.
5."Final administrative decision" means a
decision by an agency that is subject to judicial review pursuant to title 12,
chapter 7, article 6.
6."Office" means the office of
administrative hearings.
7."Selfsupporting regulatory
board" means any one of the following:
(a)The Arizona state board of accountancy.
(b)The state board of appraisal.
(c)The board of barbers.
(d)The board of behavioral health examiners.
(e)The Arizona state boxing and mixed martial arts
commission.
(f)The state board of chiropractic examiners.
(g)The board of cosmetology.
(h)The state board of dental examiners.
(i)The state board of funeral directors and
embalmers.
(j)The Arizona game and fish commission.
(k)The board of homeopathic and integrated medicine
examiners.
(l)The Arizona medical board.
(m)The naturopathic physicians medical board.
(n)The state board of nursing.
(o)The board of examiners of nursing care
institution administrators and adult care home managers.
(p)The board of occupational therapy examiners.
(q)The state board of dispensing opticians.
(r)The state board of optometry.
(s)The Arizona board of osteopathic examiners in
medicine and surgery.
(t)The Arizona peace officer standards and training
board.
(u)The Arizona state board of pharmacy.
(v)The board of physical therapy.
(w)The state board of podiatry examiners.
(x)The state board for private postsecondary
education.
(y)The state board of psychologist examiners.
(z)The board of respiratory care examiners.
(aa)The
office of pest management.
(bb)(aa)The state board of technical
registration.
(cc)(bb)The Arizona state veterinary
medical examining board.
(dd)(cc)The acupuncture board of
examiners.
(ee)(dd)The Arizona regulatory board of
physician assistants.
(ff)(ee)The board of athletic training.
(gg)(ff)The board of massage therapy. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Exemption from rulemaking
For the purposes of this act, the Arizona department of
agriculture is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.
Sec.29.Effective date; retroactivity
This act is effective and applies retroactively to from and
after June 30, 2016.

