







REFERENCE TITLE: criminal cases; arrests; records;
  erasure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1273









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada





AN ACT

amending section
13907, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 38, article
19, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 134052; relating to
criminal case records.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-907, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-907.Setting aside judgment of convicted person on discharge;
application; release from disabilities; firearm possession; exceptions; sealing
arrest and conviction records
A.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, every person convicted of a criminal offense, on fulfillment of the
conditions of probation or sentence and discharge by the court, may apply to
the judge, justice of the peace or magistrate who pronounced sentence or
imposed probation or such judge, justice of the peace or magistrate's successor
in office to have the judgment of guilt set aside.The convicted
person shall be informed of this right at the time of discharge.
B.The convicted person or, if authorized in
writing, the convicted person's attorney or probation officer may apply to set
aside the judgment.
C.If the judge, justice of the peace or magistrate
grants the application, the judge, justice of the peace or magistrate shall set
aside the judgment of guilt, dismiss the accusations or information and order
that the person be released from all penalties and disabilities resulting from
the conviction except those imposed by:
1.The department of transportation pursuant to
section 283304, 283306, 283307, 283308 or 283319,
except that the conviction may be used as a conviction if the conviction would
be admissible had it not been set aside and may be pleaded and proved in any
subsequent prosecution of such person by the state or any of its subdivisions
for any offense or used by the department of transportation in enforcing
section 283304, 283306, 283307, 283308 or 283319
as if the judgment of guilt had not been set aside.
2.The game and fish commission pursuant to section
17314 or 17340.
D.Notwithstanding section 13905 or 13906,
if a judgment of guilt is set aside pursuant to this section, the person's
right to possess a gun or firearm is restored.This subsection does
not apply to a person who was convicted of a serious offense as defined in
section 13706.
E.This section does not apply to a person who was
convicted of a criminal offense:
1.Involving a dangerous offense.
2.For which the person is required or ordered by
the court to register pursuant to section 133821.
3.For which there has been a finding of sexual
motivation pursuant to section 13118.
4.In which the victim is a minor under fifteen
years of age.
5.In violation of section 283473, any local
ordinance relating to stopping, standing or operation of a vehicle or title 28,
chapter 3, except a violation of section 28693 or any local ordinance
relating to the same subject matter as section 28693.
F.If a
judgment of guilt is set aside pursuant to this section, the person may request
that the court seal the person's arrest and conviction records. The court or a
law enforcement agency may not publicly disclose an arrest and conviction
record that is sealed. A person whose arrest and conviction record is sealed
may deny under all circumstances that the arrest and conviction occurred.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 13, chapter 38, article 19,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-4052, to read:
START_STATUTE13-4052.Criminal case records; erasure
A.In any criminal case that is commenced From
and after October 1, 1969, if the accused, by a final judgment, is found not
guilty of the charge or the charge is dismissed, all law enforcement,
prosecuting agency and court records that pertain to the charge shall be erased
when the time to file a notice of appeal expires if an appeal is not taken or,
if an appeal is taken, on the final determination of the appeal if the finding of
not guilty or the dismissal is sustained.this subsection does not
require a record to be erased in a criminal case where the defendant was found
not guilty by reason of insanity or adjudicated guilty except insane.
B.In any criminal case that is commenced before
October 1, 1969, if the accused, by a final judgment, was found not guilty of
the charge or the charge was dismissed, all law enforcement, grand jury,
prosecuting agency and court records that pertain to the charge shall be erased
by operation of law. The clerk of the court or any person who is charged with
the retention and control of the records may not disclose to anyone the
existence of the records or any information that pertains to any charge that is
erased. this subsection does not prohibit the accused person or the person's
heirs from filing a petition to erase the records with the court that granted
the not guilty judgment or dismissal and, if granted, all law enforcement,
grand jury, prosecuting agency and court records that pertain to the charge
shall be erased. This subsection does not require any record to be erased in a
criminal case where the defendant was found not guilty by reason of insanity or
adjudicated guilty except insane.
C.If a person is arrested or charged with violating
a criminal law and the prosecutor dismisses or does not file a criminal charge
against the person in the Superior Court or a municipal court or justice Court
for at least thirteen months after the arrest or dismissal, all law
enforcement, grand jury, prosecuting agency and court records that pertain to
the arrest or charge shall be erased. in cases where the dismissal was entered
in the Superior, municipal or justice court before April 1, 1972, the records
are deemed erased by operation of law and the clerk of the court or the person
who is charged with the retention and control of the records may not disclose
to anyone the existence of the records or any information that pertains to any
charge that was erased. This subsection does not prohibit an arrested or
charged person or the person's heirs from filing a petition with the court or
the clerk of the court to erase the records and, if granted, the records shall
be erased.
d.If a person who was convicted of an offense in
any court of this state before October 1, 1974 receives a pardon for the
offense, the person or the person's heirs, at any time subsequent to the
pardon, may file a petition with the court that entered judgment, or with the
court at the location having custody of the records of the conviction, for an
order of erasure. the Court or clerk of the court shall direct all law
enforcement, grand jury, prosecuting agency and court records that pertain to
the case to be erased. If a person is pardoned on or after October 1, 1974,
the records shall be erased.
E.The clerk of the court, any person who is
charged with the retention and control of the records or any law enforcement
agency that has information contained in the erased records may not disclose to
anyone, except the subject of the record on submission of satisfactory proof of
the subject's identity, information that pertains to any charge that is erased
under this section. The clerk of the court or a person who is charged with the
retention and control of the records shall forward a notice of the erasure to
any law enforcement agency that the clerk or person knows information
concerning the arrest has been disseminated and the law enforcement agency
shall erase the records of the disseminated information. the clerk of the
court or a person who is charged with the RETENTION AND control of the records
shall provide adequate security measures to safeguard against unauthorized
access to or dissemination of the records or, on the request of the accused,
cause the actual physical destruction of the records, except that the clerk or
person may not cause the actual physical destruction of the records until three
years after the date of the final disposition of the criminal case to which the
records pertain. A fee may not be charged in any court with respect to any
petition under this section. Any person who has a record erased may state that
the person has never been arrested within the meaning of the law with respect
to the proceedings that are erased and may swear so under oath.
f.This section does not apply to any law
enforcement, prosecuting agency or court record that pertains to an information
or indictment that contains more than one count while the case is pending, or
if the case is disposed of, only when all counts are entitled to erasure
pursuant to this section.
G.For the purposes of this section, a court
record does not include a record or transcript of the proceedings that is made
or prepared by an official court reporter, assistant court reporter or monitor.
END_STATUTE

