







REFERENCE TITLE: empowerment scholarship
  accounts; eligibility; administration







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1280









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

amending sections
152401, 152402 and 152403, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to arizona empowerment SCHOLARSHIP accounts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Curriculum" means a complete course of
study for a particular content area or grade level, including any supplemental
materials required by the curriculum.
2."Department" means the department of
education.
3."Eligible postsecondary institution"
means a community college as defined in section 151401, a university
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents or an accredited private
postsecondary institution.
4."Parent" means a resident of this state
who is the parent or legal guardian of a qualified student.
5."Qualified school" means a
nongovernmental primary or secondary school or a preschool for pupils with
disabilities that is located in this state and that does not discriminate on
the basis of race, color or national origin.
6."Qualified student" means a resident of
this state who:
(a)Is any of the following:
(i)Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 (29 United States Code section 794).
(ii)Identified by a school district or by an
independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I as a
child with a disability as defined in section 15761 or 15731.
(iii)A child with a disability who is eligible to
receive services from a school district under section 15763.
(iv)Attending a school or school district that has
been assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241 or who
is currently eligible to attend kindergarten and who resides within the
attendance boundary of a school that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F
pursuant to section 15241.
(v)A previous recipient of a scholarship issued
pursuant to section 15891 or this section, unless the qualified student's parent has been removed
from eligibility in the program for failure to comply pursuant to section
15-2403, subsection C.
(vi)A child of a parent who is a member of the armed forces of the United
States and who is on active duty or was killed in the line of
duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is not subject
to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vii)A child
with a guardian who is a member of the armed forces of the United States and
who is on active duty or was killed in the line of duty.A child who
meets the requirements of this item is not subject to subdivision (b) of this
paragraph.
(viii)(vii)A
child who is a ward of the juvenile court and who is residing with a
prospective permanent placement pursuant to section 8862 and the case
plan is adoption or permanent guardianship.
(ix)(viii)A
child who was a ward of the juvenile court and who achieved permanency through
adoption or permanent guardianship.
(x)(ix)A
child who is the sibling of a current or previous empowerment scholarship
account recipient or of an eligible
qualified student who accepts the terms of and enrolls in the empowerment
scholarship program.
(xi)(x)A
child who resides within the boundaries of an Indian reservation in this state as determined by the department of education
or a tribal government.
(b)And, except as provided in subdivision (a), items item (vi) and (vii) of this paragraph, who meets any of
the following requirements:
(i)Attended a governmental primary or secondary
school as a fulltime student as defined in section 15901 for at
least the first one hundred days of the prior fiscal year and who transferred
from a governmental primary or secondary school under a contract to participate
in an empowerment scholarship account. First,
second and third grade students who are enrolled in Arizona online instruction
must receive four hundred hours of logged instruction to be eligible pursuant
to this item. Fourth, fifth and sixth grade students who are enrolled in
Arizona online instruction must receive five hundred hours of logged
instruction to be eligible pursuant to this item. Seventh and eighth grade
students who are enrolled in Arizona online instruction must receive five hundred
fifty hours of logged instruction to be eligible pursuant to this item. High
school students who are enrolled in Arizona online instruction must receive
five hundred hours of logged instruction to be eligible pursuant to this item.
(ii)Previously participated in the empowerment
scholarship account program.
(iii)Received a scholarship under section 431505
and who continues to attend a qualified school if the student attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a fulltime student as defined
in section 15901 for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal year or
one full semester prior to attending a qualified school.
(iv)Was eligible for an Arizona scholarship for
pupils with disabilities and received monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 or received an Arizona scholarship for pupils
with disabilities but did not receive monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 and who continues to attend a qualified
school if the student attended a governmental primary or secondary school as a
fulltime student as defined in section 15-901 for at least ninety days
of the prior fiscal year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified
school.
(v)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a
kindergarten program in a school district or charter school in this state or attended a program for preschool children
with disabilities.
(vi)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a program
for preschool children with disabilities in this state.
7."Treasurer" means the office of the
state treasurer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
15-2402, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2402.Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts; funds
A.Arizona
empowerment scholarship accounts are established to provide options for the
education of students in this state.
B.To enroll a qualified student for an empowerment
scholarship account, the parent of the qualified student must sign an agreement
to do all of the following:
1.Use a portion of the empowerment scholarship
account monies allocated each quarter
annually to provide an
education for the qualified student in at least the subjects of reading,
grammar, mathematics, social studies and science, unless the empowerment
scholarship account is allocated monies according to a transfer schedule other
than quarterly transfers pursuant to section 152403, subsection F.
2.Not enroll the qualified student in a school
district or charter school and release the school district from all obligations
to educate the qualified student. This paragraph does not relieve the school
district or charter school that the qualified student previously attended from
the obligation to conduct an evaluation pursuant to section 15766.
3.Not accept a scholarship from a school tuition organization
pursuant to title 43 concurrently with an empowerment scholarship account for
the qualified student in the same year a parent signs the agreement pursuant to
this section.
4.Use the money deposited in the qualified
student's Arizona empowerment scholarship account only for the following
expenses of the qualified student:
(a)Tuition or fees at a qualified school.
(b)Textbooks required by a qualified school.
(c)Educational
therapies or services from a licensed or accredited practitioner or provider,
including licensed or accredited paraprofessionals or educational aides, if the
qualified student meets any of the criteria specified in section 152401,
paragraph 6, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) as determined by a school
district or by an independent third party pursuant to section 152403,
subsection I.
(c)If the qualified student meets any of the
criteria specified in section 15-2401, paragraph 6, subdivision (a), item (i), (ii) or (iii) as determined by a
school district or by an independent third party pursuant to section 15-2403,
subsection I, the qualified student may use the following additional services:
(i)Educational therapies from a licensed or
accredited practitioner or provider.
(ii)A licensed or accredited paraprofessional or
educational aide.
(iii)Tuition for vocational and life skills
education approved by the department. 
(iv)Associated services that include educational
and psychological evaluations, assistive technology rentals and braille
translation services approved by the department.
(d)Tutoring or teaching services provided by an
individual or facility accredited by a state, regional or national accrediting
organization.
(e)Curriculum curricula.
(f)Tuition or fees for a nonpublic online learning
program.
(g)Fees for a nationally standardized
norm-referenced achievement test, an advanced placement examination or any
exams related to college or university admission.
(h)Contributions to a Coverdell education savings
account established pursuant to 26 United States Code section 530 for the
benefit of the qualified student, except that money used for elementary or
secondary education expenses must be for expenses otherwise allowed under this
section.
(i)Tuition or fees at an eligible postsecondary institution.
(j)Textbooks required by an eligible postsecondary
institution.
(k)Fees for management of the empowerment
scholarship account by firms selected by
the treasurer.
(l)Services provided by a public school, including
individual classes and extracurricular programs.
(m)Insurance or surety bond payments as required by the department of education.
(n)Uniforms purchased from or through a qualified
school.
5.Not file an affidavit of intent to homeschool
pursuant to section 15802, subsection B, paragraph 2 or 3.
6.Not use monies deposited in the qualified
student's account for any of the following:
(a)Computer hardware or other technological
devices.
(b)Transportation of the pupil.
(c)Consumable educational supplies, including
paper, pens or markers.
C.In exchange for the parent's agreement pursuant
to subsection B of this section, the department shall transfer from the monies
that would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's prior school district, or if
the child is currently eligible to attend kindergarten, the monies that the
department determines would otherwise be allocated to a recipient's expected
school district of attendance, to the treasurer for deposit into an Arizona
empowerment scholarship account an amount that is equivalent to ninety per cent percent of the sum of the base support level
and additional assistance prescribed in sections 15185 and 15943
for that particular student if that student were attending a charter school.
The department may retain up to five per
cent percent
of the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account for deposit in the department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund established in subsection D of this section, out of
which the department shall transfer one per
cent percent
of the sum of the base support level and additional assistance prescribed in
sections 15185 and 15943 for each student with an empowerment
scholarship account to the state treasurer for deposit in the state treasurer
empowerment scholarship account fund established in subsection E of this
section.
D.The department of education empowerment
scholarship account fund is established consisting of monies retained by the
department pursuant to subsection C of this section. The department shall
administer the fund. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation. Monies in the fund shall be used for the department's costs in
administering empowerment scholarship accounts under this chapter. Monies in
the fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. If the number of empowerment scholarship accounts
significantly increases after fiscal year 20122013, the department may
request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any subsequent
fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
E.The state treasurer empowerment scholarship
account fund is established consisting of monies transferred by the department
to the state treasurer pursuant to subsection C of this section. The state
treasurer shall administer the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for the
state treasurer's costs in administering the empowerment scholarship accounts
under this chapter.If the number of empowerment scholarship
accounts significantly increases after fiscal year 20132014, the state
treasurer may request an increase in the amount appropriated to the fund in any
subsequent fiscal year in the budget estimate submitted pursuant to section 35113.
Monies in the fund are subject to legislative appropriation. Monies in the
fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing
of appropriations.
F.A parent must renew the qualified student's
empowerment scholarship account on an annual basis.Notwithstanding
any changes to the student's multidisciplinary evaluation team plan, a student
who has previously qualified for an empowerment scholarship account shall
remain eligible to apply for renewal until the student finishes high school.
G.A signed agreement under this section constitutes
school attendance required by section 15802.
H.A qualified school or a provider of services
purchased pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 4 of this section may not share,
refund or rebate any Arizona empowerment scholarship account monies with the
parent or qualified student in any manner.
I.On the qualified student's graduation from a
postsecondary institution or after any period of four consecutive years after
high school graduation in which the student is not enrolled in an eligible
postsecondary institution, the qualified student's Arizona empowerment
scholarship account shall be closed and any remaining funds shall be returned to
the state.
J.Monies received pursuant to this article do not
constitute taxable income to the parent of the qualified student. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 15-2403, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2403.Empowerment scholarship accounts; administration; audit;
rules
A.The treasurer may contract with private financial
management firms to manage Arizona empowerment scholarship accounts with the supervision of the treasurer.
B.The department shall conduct or contract for
annual audits of empowerment scholarship accounts to ensure compliance with
section 152402, subsection B, paragraph 4.The department
shall also conduct or contract for random, quarterly and annual audits of
empowerment scholarship accounts as needed to ensure compliance with section 152402,
subsection B, paragraph4.
C.The department may remove any parent or qualified
student from eligibility for an Arizona empowerment scholarship account if the
parent or qualified student fails to comply with the terms of the contract or
applicable laws, rules or orders or knowingly misuses monies or knowingly fails
to comply with the terms of the contract with intent to defraud and shall
notify the treasurer.The department shall notify the treasurer to
suspend the account of a parent or qualified student and shall notify the
parent or qualified student in writing that the account has been suspended and
that no further transactions will be allowed or disbursements made. The
notification shall specify the reason for the suspension and state that the
parent or qualified student has ten days, not including weekends, to respond
and take corrective action.If the parent or qualified student
refuses or fails to contact the department, furnish any information or make any
report that may be required for reinstatement within the ten-day period, the
department may remove the parent or qualified student pursuant to this
subsection.
D.A parent may appeal the department's decision
pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 10.
E.The department may refer cases of substantial
misuse of monies to the attorney general for the purpose of collection or for the purpose of a criminal investigation
if the department obtains evidence of fraudulent use of an account.
F.The department shall make quarterly transfers of
the amount calculated pursuant to section 152402, subsection C to the
treasurer for deposit into the empowerment scholarship account of each
qualified student, except the department may make transfers according to
another transfer schedule if the department determines a transfer schedule
other than quarterly transfers is necessary for the operation of the
empowerment scholarship account.
G.The department shall determine a period that is accept applications between July 1 and May 1 June 30 of each year during which it will accept applications for the following
fiscal year. The
department shall enroll and issue an award letter to eligible applicants within
forty-five days after receipt of a completed application and all required
documentation.On or
before May 30 of each year, the department shall furnish to the joint
legislative budget committee an estimate of the amount required to fund
empowerment scholarship accounts for the following fiscal year.The
department shall include in its budget request for the following fiscal year
the amount estimated in section 152402, subsection C for each qualified
student.
H.The department may adopt rules and policies
necessary for the administration of empowerment scholarship accounts,
including:
1.Policies for conducting or contracting for
examinations of the use of account monies.
2.Conducting or contracting for random, quarterly
and annual reviews of accounts.
3.Establishing or contracting for the establishment
of an online anonymous fraud reporting service.
4.Establishing an anonymous telephone hotline for
fraud reporting.
5.Policies that require a surety bond or insurance
for account holders.
I.The department shall contract with an independent
third party for the purposes of determining if a qualified student is eligible
to receive educational therapies or services pursuant to section 152402,
subsection B, paragraph 4, subdivision (c). END_STATUTE

