







REFERENCE TITLE: retirement plans; elected officials;
  opt-out







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1206









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley, Begay, Driggs: Allen S, Donahue, Farnsworth D, Miranda, Shooter





AN ACT

Amending sections
38727, 38801, 38804, 38810, 38831 and 38833,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to state retirement systems.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-727, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-727.Eligibility; options
A.The following provisions apply to all employees
hired on or after the effective date:
1.All employees and officers of this state and all
officers and employees of political subdivisions establishing a retirement plan
administered by the board pursuant to this article are subject to this article,
except that membership is not mandatory:
(a)On the part of any employee who is eligible and
who elects to participate in the optional retirement programs established by
the Arizona board of regents pursuant to the authority conferred by section 151628
or by a community college district board pursuant to authority conferred by
section 151451.
(b)For a state elected official who is subject to
term limits, who is initially elected
or appointed before January 1, 2014, who is eligible for participation in ASRS
because the state elected official has
continuously elected not
to participate in the elected officials' retirement plan as specified in section 38804, subsection K and as
provided in section 38804, subsection A and who elects has
continuously elected not to participate in ASRS as provided in
paragraph 7 of this subsection.
(c)On the part of any employee or officer who is
eligible to participate and who participates in the elected officials'
retirement plan pursuant to article 3 of this chapter, the elected officials'
defined contribution retirement system pursuant to article 3.1 of this chapter,
the public safety personnel retirement system pursuant to article 4 of this
chapter or the corrections officer retirement plan pursuant to article 6 of
this chapter.
2.All employees and officers of political
subdivisions whose compensation is provided wholly or in part from state monies
and who are declared to be state employees and officers by the legislature for
retirement purposes are subject, on legislative enactment, to this article and
are members of ASRS.
3.Any member whose service terminates other than by
death or withdrawal from membership is deemed to be a member of ASRS until the
member's death benefit is paid.
4.Employees and officers shall not become members
of ASRS and, if they are members immediately before becoming employed as
provided by this section, shall have their membership status suspended while
they are employed by state departments paying the salaries of their officers
and employees wholly or in part from monies received from sources other than
appropriations from the state general fund for the period or periods payment of
the employer contributions is not made by or on behalf of the departments.
5.Notwithstanding other provisions of this section,
a temporary employee of the legislature whose projected term of employment is
for not more than six months is ineligible for membership in
ASRS.If the employment continues beyond six successive months, the
employee may elect to either:
(a)Receive credit for service for the first six months
of employment and establish membership in ASRS as of the beginning of the
current term of employment if, within fortyfive days after the first six
months of employment, both the employer and the employee contribute to ASRS the
amount that would have been required to be contributed to ASRS during the first
six months of employment as if the employee had been a member of ASRS during
those six months.
(b)Establish membership in ASRS as of the day
following the completion of six months of employment.
6.A person who is employed in postgraduate training
in an approved medical residency training program of an employer or a
postdoctoral scholar who is employed by a university under the jurisdiction of
the Arizona board of regents is ineligible for membership in ASRS.
7.A state elected official who is subject to term
limits, who is initially elected
or appointed before January 1, 2014 and who is eligible for participation in
ASRS because the state elected official has
continuously elected not to participate in the elected officials'
retirement plan as specified in section
38804, subsection K and as provided in section 38804,
subsection A may elect not to participate in ASRS.The election not
to participate is specific for that term of office.The state elected
official who is subject to term limits shall make the election in writing and
file the election with ASRS within thirty days after the elected official's
retirement plan mails the notice to the state elected official of the state
elected official's eligibility to participate in ASRS.The election
is effective on the first day of the state elected official's eligibility. If
a state elected official who is subject to term limits fails to make an
election as provided in this paragraph, the state elected official is deemed to
have elected to participate in ASRS.The election not to participate
in ASRS is irrevocable and constitutes a waiver of all benefits provided by
ASRS for the state elected official's entire term, except for any benefits
accrued by the state elected official in ASRS for periods of participation
before being elected to an office subject to term limits or any benefits
expressly provided by law.
8.A person may elect not to participate in ASRS if
the person becomes employed by an employer after the person has attained at
least sixtyfive years of age, is not an active member, inactive member,
retired member or receiving benefits pursuant to article 2.1 of this chapter
and does not have any credited service or prior service in ASRS.The
employee shall make the election not to participate in writing and file the
election with ASRS within thirty days after employment.The election
not to participate is irrevocable for the remainder of the person's employment
for which the person made the election and constitutes a waiver of all benefits
provided by the Arizona state retirement system. The period the person works
is not eligible for purchase under section 38743 or 38744.
9.The following are ineligible for membership in
ASRS:
(a)A person who performs services in a hospital,
home or other institution as an inmate or patient at the hospital, home or
other institution.
(b)A person who performs agricultural labor
services, as defined in section 210 of the social security act.
(c)A person who is a nonresident alien temporarily
residing in the United States and who holds an F1, J1, M1
or Q1 visa when services are performed.
(d)A person who performs services for a school,
college or university in this state at which the person is enrolled as a
student, as defined by the employing institution. The employing institution
shall maintain an appeal process for a person who disagrees with the employing
institution's determination that the person is a student and not eligible for
membership in ASRS.
(e)A person who performs services under a program
designed to relieve the person from unemployment.
B.The following elected officials are subject to
this article if the member's employer is an employer under article 3 of this
chapter:
1.A state elected official who is subject to term
limits, who is elected or appointed on or before December 31, 2013 and who is
an active, an inactive or a retired member of ASRS or a member of ASRS with a
disability because the state elected official had previously elected not to
participate in the elected officials' retirement plan as provided in section 38804,
subsection A.
2.An elected official, as defined in section 38831,
who is an active, an inactive or a retired member of ASRS or a member of ASRS
with a disability, if the elected official's employer is a participating
employer under this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 38-801, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-801.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Accumulated contributions" means the
sum of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant to
section 38810, subsection A plus the amount transferred to the fund on
behalf of the member plus the amount deposited in the fund pursuant to section
38816.
2."Actuarial equivalent" means equality
in present value of the aggregate amounts expected to be received under two
different forms of payment, based on mortality and interest assumptions adopted
by the board.
3."Alternate payee" means the spouse or
former spouse of a participant as designated in a domestic relations order.
4."Alternate payee's portion" means
benefits that are payable to an alternate payee pursuant to a plan approved
domestic relations order.
5."Average yearly salary" means the
result obtained by dividing the total salary paid to an employee during a
considered period by the number of years, including fractional years, in which
the salary was received.The considered period shall be:
(a)For an elected official who becomes a member of
the plan before January 1, 2012, the three consecutive years within the last
ten completed years of credited service as an elected official that yield the
highest average.If a member does not have three consecutive years
of credited service as an elected official, the considered period is the
member's last consecutive period of employment with a plan employer immediately
before retirement.
(b)For an elected official who becomes a member of
the plan on or after January 1, 2012, the five consecutive years within the
last ten completed years of credited service as an elected official that yield
the highest average.If a member does not have five consecutive
years of credited service as an elected official, the considered period is the
member's last consecutive period of employment with a plan employer immediately
before retirement.
6."Board" means the board of trustees of
the system.
7."Credited service" means the number of
whole and fractional years of a member's service as an elected official after
the elected official's effective date of participation for which member and
employer contributions are on deposit with the fund, plus credited service
transferred to the plan from another retirement system or plan for public
employees of this state, plus service as an elected official before the elected
official's effective date of participation that is being funded pursuant to a
joinder agreement pursuant to section 38815 or service that was redeemed
pursuant to section 38816.Credited service does not include
periods of service for which an active member is uncompensated by the employer
and for which no contributions to the plan are made.
8."Cure period" means the ninety-day
period in which a participant or alternate payee may submit an amended domestic
relations order and request a determination, calculated from the time the plan
issues a determination finding that a previously submitted domestic relations
order did not qualify as a plan approved domestic relations order.
9."Determination" means a written
document that indicates to a participant and alternate payee whether a domestic
relations order qualifies as a plan approved domestic relations order.
10."Determination period" means the
ninety-day period in which the plan must review a domestic relations order that
is submitted by a participant or alternate payee to determine whether the
domestic relations order qualifies as a plan approved domestic relations order,
calculated from the time the plan mails a notice of receipt to the participant
and alternate payee.
11."Direct rollover" means a payment by
the plan to an eligible retirement plan that is specified by the distributee.
12."Distributee" means a member, a
member's surviving spouse or a member's spouse or former spouse who is the
alternate payee under a plan approved domestic relations order.
13."Domestic relations order" means an
order of a court of this state that is made pursuant to the domestic relations
laws of this state and that creates or recognizes the existence of an alternate
payee's right to, or assigns to an alternate payee the right to, receive a
portion of the benefits payable to a participant.
14."Effective date of participation"
means August 7, 1985, except with respect to employers and their elected
officials whose contributions to the plan commence after that date, in which
case the effective date of their participation in the plan is specified in the
applicable joinder agreement.
15."Elected official" means:
(a)Every elected official of this state who was a
member of the plan on December 31, 2013.
(b)Every elected official of each county of this
state who was a member of the plan on December 31, 2013.
(c)Every justice of the supreme court, every judge
of the court of appeals, every judge of the superior court and every fulltime
superior court commissioner, except fulltime superior court
commissioners who failed to make a timely election of membership under the
judges' retirement plan, repealed on August 7, 1985, who was a member of the
plan on December 31, 2013.
(d)The administrator of the board if the
administrator is a natural person but only if the administrator is employed by
the board before January 1, 2012.
(e)Each elected official of an incorporated city or
town whose employer has executed a proper joinder agreement for coverage of its
elected officials and who was a member of the plan on December 31, 2013.
(f)a state elected official who is
subject to term limits, who is initially elected or appointed before january 1,
2014, who has continuously elected not to participate in the plan pursuant to
section 38804, subsection A and in the arizona state retirement system
pursuant to section 38727, subsection A since initially being elected as
a state elected official who is subject to term limits and who is subsequently
elected or appointed as a state elected official who is subject to term limits
on or after January 1, 2014.
16."Eligible child" means an unmarried
child of a deceased active or retired member who meets one of the following
qualifications:
(a)Is under eighteen years of age.
(b)Is at least eighteen years of age and under
twentythree years of age only during any period that the child is a fulltime
student.
(c)Is under a disability that began before the
child attained twentythree years of age and remains a dependent of the
surviving spouse or guardian.
17."Eligible retirement plan" means any
of the following that accepts a distributee's eligible rollover distribution:
(a)An individual retirement account described in
section 408(a) of the internal revenue code.
(b)An individual retirement annuity described in
section 408(b) of the internal revenue code.
(c)An annuity plan described in section 403(a) of
the internal revenue code.
(d)A qualified trust described in section 401(a) of
the internal revenue code.
(e)An annuity contract described in section 403(b)
of the internal revenue code.
(f)An eligible deferred compensation plan described
in section 457(b) of the internal revenue code that is maintained by a state, a
political subdivision of a state or any agency or instrumentality of a state or
a political subdivision of a state and that agrees to separately account for
amounts transferred into the eligible deferred compensation plan from this
plan.
18."Eligible rollover distribution" means
a payment to a distributee, but does not include any of the following:
(a)Any distribution that is one of a series of
substantially equal periodic payments made not less frequently than annually
for the life or life expectancy of the member or the joint lives or joint life
expectancies of the member and the member's beneficiary or for a specified period
of ten years or more.
(b)Any distribution to the extent the distribution
is required under section 401(a)(9) of the internal revenue code.
(c)The portion of any distribution that is not
includable in gross income.
(d)Any distribution made to satisfy the
requirements of section 415 of the internal revenue code.
(e)Hardship distributions.
(f)Similar items designated by the commissioner of
the United States internal revenue service in revenue rulings, notices and
other guidance published in the internal revenue bulletin.
19."Employer" means a department, agency
or political subdivision of this state that makes employer contributions to the
plan pursuant to section 38810 on behalf of an elected official who
participates in the plan.
20."Fund" means the elected officials'
retirement plan fund.
21."Notice of receipt" means a written
document that is issued by the plan to a participant and alternate payee and
that states that the plan has received a domestic relations order and a request
for a determination that the domestic relations order is a plan approved
domestic relations order.
22."Participant" means a member who is
subject to a domestic relations order.
23."Participant's portion" means benefits
that are payable to a participant pursuant to a plan approved domestic
relations order.
24."Pension" means a series of monthly
payments to a person who is entitled to receive benefits under the plan.
25."Personal representative" means the
personal representative of a deceased alternate payee.
26."Physician" means a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
27."Plan" means the elected officials'
retirement plan.
28."Plan approved domestic relations
order" means a domestic relations order that the plan approves as meeting
all the requirements for a plan approved domestic relations order as otherwise
prescribed in this article.
29."Plan year" or "fiscal year"
means the period beginning on July 1 of any year and ending on June 30 of the
next succeeding year.
30."Retired member" means a person who is
being paid a pension based on the person's credited service as a member of the
plan.
31."Segregated funds" means the amount of
benefits that would currently be payable to an alternate payee pursuant to a
domestic relations order under review by the plan, or a domestic relations
order submitted to the plan that failed to qualify as a plan approved domestic
relations order, if the domestic relations order were determined to be a plan
approved domestic relations order.
32."System" means the public safety
personnel retirement system. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 38-804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-804.Membership; termination; definition
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section, all
elected officials are members of the plan, except that a state elected official
who is subject to term limits may elect not to participate in the
plan.The state elected official who is subject to term limits shall
make the election in writing and file the election with the board within thirty
days after the state elected official assumes office. The election is
effective on the first day of the state elected official's eligibility for that
term of office.The election not to participate is specific for that
term of office.If a state elected official who is subject to term
limits fails to make an election as provided in this subsection, the state
elected official is deemed to have elected to participate in the plan. The
election not to participate in the plan is irrevocable and constitutes a waiver
of all benefits provided by the plan for the state elected official's entire
term, except for any benefits accrued by the state elected official in the plan
for periods of participation before being elected to an office subject to term
limits or any benefits expressly provided by law.The state elected
official who elects not to participate in the plan shall participate in the
Arizona state retirement system unless the state elected official makes an
irrevocable election not to participate in the Arizona state retirement system
as provided in section 38727.
B.All elected officials who are members of the plan
on December 31, 2013 may remain members of the plan under the terms and
limitations of this article.
C.If a member who becomes a member of the plan
before January 1, 2012 ceases to hold office for any reason other than death or
retirement, within twenty days after filing a completed application with the
board, the member is entitled to receive the following amounts, less any
benefit payments the member has received and any amount the member may owe to
the plan:
1.If the member has less than five years of credited
service with the plan, the member may withdraw the member's accumulated
contributions from the plan.
2.If the member has five or more years of credited
service with the plan, the member may withdraw the member's accumulated
contributions plus an amount equal to the amount determined as follows:
(a)5.0 to 5.9 years of credited service, twentyfive
percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant
to section 38810, subsection A.
(b)6.0 to 6.9 years of credited service, forty
percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant
to section 38810, subsection A.
(c)7.0 to 7.9 years of credited service, fiftyfive
percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant
to section 38810, subsection A.
(d)8.0 to 8.9 years of credited service, seventy
percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant
to section 38810, subsection A.
(e)9.0 to 9.9 years of credited service, eightyfive
percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary pursuant
to section 38810, subsection A.
(f)10.0 or more years of credited service, one
hundred percent of all member contributions deducted from the member's salary
pursuant to section 38810, subsection A.
D.If a member has more than ten years of credited
service with the plan, leaves the monies prescribed in subsection C of this
section on account with the plan for more than thirty days after termination of
employment and after that time period requests a refund of those monies, the
member is entitled to receive the amount prescribed in subsection B C of this section plus interest at a rate
determined by the board for each year computed from and after the member's
termination of employment.
E.If an elected official who becomes a member of
the plan on or after January 1, 2012 ceases to hold office for any reason other
than death or retirement, within twenty days after filing a completed
application with the board, the member may withdraw the member's accumulated
contributions from the plan and shall be paid the member's accumulated
contributions plus interest at a rate determined by the board as of the date of
termination, less any benefit payments the member has received and any amount
the member may owe to the plan.
F.If the amount prescribed in subsection C, D or E
of this section includes monies that are an eligible rollover distribution and
the member elects to have the distribution paid directly to an eligible
retirement plan or individual retirement account or annuity and specifies the
eligible retirement plan or individual retirement account or annuity to which
the distribution is to be paid, the distribution shall be made in the form of a
direct trusteetotrustee transfer to the specified eligible
retirement plan. The distribution shall be made in the form and at the time
prescribed by the board. A member who receives the amount prescribed in
subsection C, D or E of this section from the plan or who elects a transfer
pursuant to this subsection forfeits the member's credited service, and all
rights to benefits under the plan and membership in the plan terminate.
G.For distributions occurring from and after
December 31, 2007, a member or a member's beneficiary, including a nonspouse
designated beneficiary to the extent permitted under subsection H of this
section, may roll over an eligible rollover distribution as defined in section
402(c)(4) of the internal revenue code to a roth individual retirement account,
if, for distributions occurring before January 1, 2010, the member or the
member's beneficiary satisfies the requirements for making a roth individual
retirement account contribution under section 408A(c)(3)(B) of the internal
revenue code, as in effect on the date of the rollover. Any amount rolled over
to a roth individual retirement account is included in the gross income of the
member or the member's beneficiary to the extent the amounts would have been
included in gross income if not rolled over as required under section 408A(d)(3)(A)
of the internal revenue code.For the purposes of this subsection,
the administrator is not responsible for ensuring the member or the member's
beneficiary is eligible to make a rollover to a roth individual retirement
account.
H.For distributions made from and after December
31, 2009, a nonspouse designated beneficiary as defined in section 401(a)(9)(E)
of the internal revenue code may elect to directly rollover an eligible
rollover distribution to an individual retirement account under section 408(a)
of the internal revenue code or an individual retirement annuity under section
408(b) of the internal revenue code that is established on behalf of the
designated beneficiary and that will be treated as an inherited individual
retirement plan pursuant to section 402(c)(11) of the internal revenue
code.In order to be able to roll over the distribution, the
distribution otherwise must satisfy the definition of an eligible rollover
distribution as defined in section 402(c)(4) of the internal revenue code. In
applying this subsection, a nonspouse rollover is not subject to the direct
rollover requirements under section 401(a)(31) of the internal revenue code,
the rollover notice requirements under section 402(f) of the internal revenue
code or the mandatory withholding requirements under section 3405(c) of the
internal revenue code.
I.For plan years occurring before January 1, 2007,
the period for providing the rollover notice as required under section 402(f)
of the internal revenue code is no less than thirty days and no more than
ninety days before the date of distribution and, for plan years beginning from
and after December 31, 2006, the period for providing the rollover notice as
required under section 402(f) of the internal revenue code is no less than
thirty days and no more than one hundred eighty days before the date of
distribution.
J.In no case shall more than twelve months of
credited service be credited on account of all service rendered by a member in
any one year.
K.Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, if an elected official who
has terminated the member's membership in the plan pursuant to subsection C A of this section is subsequently elected,
appointed or hired on or after January 1, 2014, the elected official is not
eligible to become a member of the plan but is subject to article 3.1 of this
chapter. If a state elected official
who is subject to term limits, who is initially elected or appointed before
january 1, 2014 and who has continuously elected not to participate in the plan
pursuant to subsection A of this section and in the arizona state retirement
system pursuant to section 38727, subsection A since initially being
elected as a state elected official who is subject to term limits is
subsequently elected or appointed as a state elected official who is subject to
term limits on or after January 1, 2014, the state elected official is eligible
to become a member of the plan or may elect not to participate in the plan
pursuant to subsection A of this section. if the state elected official
becomes a member of the plan, credited service only accrues from the date of
the member's most recent eligibility as a state elected official.
L.Notwithstanding subsection K of this section relating to an elected official who has
terminated the member's membership in the plan, if an elected
official files a written election form with the board within ninety days after
the day of the member's reemployment as an elected official and repays the
amount previously withdrawn pursuant to subsection C or D of this section
within one year after the date of the member's reemployment as an elected
official, with interest on that amount at the rate of nine per cent
percent for each year, compounded each year from the date of
withdrawal to the date of repayment, credited service shall be restored.
Credited service shall not be restored until complete repayment is made to the
fund.
M.Except as
provided in subsection K of this section, an elected official who
is elected, appointed or hired on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not a
member of the plan on December 31, 2013 is not eligible to become a member of
the plan but is subject to article 3.1 of this chapter.
N.If a retired member subsequently becomes an
elected official, contributions shall not be made by the retired member and
credited service shall not accrue while the retired member is holding office.
O.In addition to subsection N of this section, if a
retired member subsequently becomes, by reason of election or reelection, an
elected official of the same office from which the member retired within a time
period following the member's retirement that is less than one full term for
that office, the member shall not receive a pension. If the elected official
ceases to hold the same office, the elected official is entitled to receive the
same pension the elected official was receiving when the elected official's
pension was discontinued pursuant to this subsection. Nothing in this
subsection prohibits a retired judge called by the supreme court to active
duties of a judge pursuant to section 38813 from receiving retirement
benefits. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 38-810, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-810.Contributions; appropriations
A.Each member shall contribute to the fund an
amount equal to the amount prescribed in subsection G of this
section.Contributions of members shall be made by payroll deductions.Every
member is deemed to consent to these deductions. Payment of a member's
compensation, less these payroll deductions, constitutes a full and complete
discharge and satisfaction of all claims and demands by the member relating to
remuneration for the member's services rendered during the period covered by
the payment, except with respect to the benefits provided under the plan. A
member may not, under any circumstance, borrow from, take a loan against or
remove contributions from the member's account before the termination of
membership in the plan or the receipt of a pension.
B.The board's office shall
be credited monthly with monies collected pursuant to section 12119.01,
subsection B, paragraph 2, section 12120.31, subsection D, paragraph 2,
section 12284.03, subsection A, paragraph 6, section 22281,
subsection C, paragraph 3 and section 41178. The monies credited to the
fund pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited in the fund on a monthly
basis, and there shall be a complete accounting of the determination of these
monies deposited in the fund.
C.Beginning on January 1, 2014 through June 30,
2044, except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, each employer shall make level per cent
percent compensation contributions of twentythree and onehalf
per cent percent of the compensation of all employees
of the employer who are either members under this article, article 3.1 of this
chapter or article 2 of this chapter pursuant to section 38727,
subsection B to meet the normal cost plus an amount to amortize the unfunded
accrued liability and the employer's contribution under the elected officials'
defined contribution retirement system established pursuant to article 3.1 of
this chapter and the employer's contribution under article 2 of this chapter
for members eligible pursuant to section 38727, subsection B. If a member has elected not to accept the
employer's contribution pursuant to section 38833, the employer is not
required to contribute that percent of compensation for that member. The
employer also shall pay the amount required by section 38-797.05 for members
under article 2 of this chapter who are eligible pursuant to section 38727,
subsection B and the amount required by article 3.2 of this chapter for members
under article 3.1 of this chapter. The monies deposited in the fund pursuant
to subsection B of this section shall be used to supplement the contributions
required of all employers under the plan.The employer level per cent percent compensation contribution that is
paid pursuant to this subsection, less the amount contributed by the employer
pursuant to section 38833 and section 38737 for members eligible
pursuant to section 38727, subsection B, shall not be used to pay for an
increase in benefits that is otherwise payable to members but shall be used to
meet the normal cost plus an amount to amortize the unfunded accrued liability.
D.Beginning July 1, 2044, as determined by
actuarial valuations performed by the plan's actuary, each employer shall make
level per cent percent compensation
contributions sufficient under the actuarial valuation to meet both the normal
cost plus the actuarially determined amount required to amortize the unfunded
accrued liability over a rolling period of at least twenty and not more than
thirty years that is established by the board taking into account the
recommendation of the plan's actuary, except that the employer contribution
rate shall not be less than ten per cent percent of
salary.The monies deposited in the fund pursuant to subsection B of
this section shall be used to supplement the contributions required of all
employers under the plan.The minimum employer contribution that is
paid and that is in excess of the normal cost plus the actuarially determined amount
required to amortize the unfunded accrued liability as calculated pursuant to
this subsection shall be used to reduce future employer contribution increases
and shall not be used to pay for an increase in benefits that are otherwise
payable to members. The board shall separately account for these monies in the
fund.After the close of any fiscal year, if the plan's actuary
determines that the actuarial valuation of the fund contains excess valuation
assets and is more than one hundred per
cent percent
funded, the board shall account for fifty per cent percent
of the excess valuation assets in a stabilization reserve account. After the
close of any fiscal year, if the plan's actuary determines that the actuarial
valuation of the fund has a valuation asset deficiency and an unfunded
actuarial accrued liability, the board shall use any valuation assets in the
stabilization reserve account, to the extent available, to limit the decline in
the fund's funding ratio to not more than two per cent
percent.
E.The department of administration and the
treasurer of each county and participating city and town shall transfer to the
board the contributions provided for in subsections A, C and D of this section
within ten working days after each payroll date.The state, county
treasurers and clerks of the superior court shall transfer the monies credited
under subsection B of this section to the board on or before the fifteenth day
of each calendar month that follows the month in which the court fees were
collected.Contributions and monies credited under subsection B of
this section and transferred after these dates shall include a penalty equal to
ten per cent percent a year, compounded annually, for each
day that the contributions or monies credited under subsection B of this
section are late.Delinquent payments due under this subsection,
together with interest charges as provided in this subsection and court costs,
may be recovered by action in a court of competent jurisdiction against the
person or persons responsible for the payments or, at the request of the board,
may be deducted from any other monies, including excise revenue taxes, payable
to a political subdivision by any department or agency of this
state.If requested by the board, the state, county treasurers or
clerks of the superior court shall transfer the monies credited under
subsection B of this section, in an amount determined by the board, directly to
the qualified governmental excess benefit arrangement established pursuant to
section 38803.01.
F.The employer shall pay the member contributions
required of members on account of compensation earned after August 7,
1985.The paid contributions shall be treated as employer
contributions for the purpose of determining tax treatment under the United
States internal revenue code.The effective date of the employer
payment shall not be before the date the retirement plan has received
notification from the United States internal revenue service that pursuant to
section 414(h) of the United States internal revenue code the member
contributions paid will not be included in gross income for income tax purposes
until the paid contributions are distributed by refund or pension
payments.The employer shall pay the member contributions from
monies established and available in the retirement deduction account, which
monies would otherwise have been designated as member contributions and paid to
the retirement plan. Member contributions paid pursuant to this subsection
shall be treated for all other purposes, in the same manner and to the same
extent, as member contributions made before August 7, 1985.
G.The amount contributed by a member pursuant to
subsection A of this section is:
1.Through June 30, 2011, seven per cent
percent of the member's gross salary.
2.For fiscal year 20112012, ten per cent percent of the member's gross salary.
3.For fiscal year 20122013, eleven and onehalf
per cent percent of the member's gross salary.
4.For fiscal year 20132014 and each fiscal
year thereafter, thirteen per cent percent of the member's gross
salary.
H.For fiscal year 20112012 and each fiscal
year thereafter, the amount of the member's contribution that exceeds seven per cent percent of the member's compensation shall
not be used to reduce the employer's contributions that are calculated pursuant
to subsection C of this section.
I.In fiscal years 20132014 through 20422043,
the sum of $5,000,000 is appropriated in each fiscal year from the state
general fund to the elected officials' retirement plan fund to supplement the
normal cost plus an amount to amortize the unfunded accrued liability pursuant
to subsection C of this section. Monies appropriated pursuant to this
subsection shall not be used to pay for an increase in benefits that is
otherwise payable to members and shall only be used as specified in this
subsection. Monies appropriated pursuant to this subsection are exempt from
the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 38-831, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-831.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Annuity account" means an account that
is established for each member to record the deposit of member contributions,
employer contributions and interest, dividends or other accumulations credited
on behalf of the member.
2."Board" means the board of trustees of
the public safety personnel retirement system established by section 38848.
3."Defined contribution system" means the
elected officials' defined contribution retirement system established pursuant
to this article.
4."Elected official":
(a)Means:
(a) (i)Every elected official of this
state who was elected or appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not
an active, an inactive,a disabled
or a retired member of the plan or a
member of the plan with a disability on December 31, 2013.
(b) (ii)Every elected official of each county
of this state who was elected or appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who
was not an active, an inactive, a
disabled or a retired member of the plan or a member of the plan with a disability on
December 31, 2013.
(c) (iii)Every justice of the supreme
court who was appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not an active,
an inactive, a disabled or
a retired member of the plan or a
member of the plan with a disability on December 31, 2013.
(d) (iv)Every judge of the court of
appeals who was appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not an
active, an inactive, a disabled
or a retired member of the plan or a
member of the plan with a disability on December 31, 2013.
(e) (v)Every judge of the superior court
who was elected or appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not an
active, an inactive, a disabled
or a retired member of the plan or a
member of the plan with a disability on December 31,2013.
(f) (vi)Every fulltime superior
court commissioner, except fulltime superior court commissioners who
failed to make a timely election of membership under the judges' retirement
plan, repealed on August 7, 1985, who was hired on or after January 1, 2014 and
who was not an active, an inactive,a
disabled or a retired member of the plan or a member of the plan with a disability on
December 31, 2013.
(g) (vii)Each elected official of an
incorporated city or town whose employer has executed a proper joinder
agreement with the plan for coverage of its elected officials, who was elected
or appointed on or after January 1, 2014 and who was not an active, an inactive, a disabled or a retired member
of the plan or a member of the plan
with a disability on December 31, 2013.
(b)Does not include a state elected
official who is subject to term limits, who is not an active, an inactive or a retired member
of the plan or a member of the
plan with a disability because the state elected official has continuously
elected not to participate in the plan pursuant to section 38804,
subsection A and in the arizona state retirement system pursuant to section 38727,
subsection A since initially being elected before January 1, 2014 as a state
elected official who is subject to term limits and who is subsequently elected
or appointed as a state elected official who is subject to term limits on or
after January 1, 2014.
5."Employer" means a department or
political subdivision of this state that makes employer contributions to the
defined contribution system on behalf of a member.
6."Employer contribution" means an amount
deposited by an employer, from the employer's own monies, in the member's
annuity account on a periodic basis coinciding with the member's regular pay
period.
7."Member" means an elected official
under the defined contribution system.
8."Plan" means the elected officials'
retirement plan established by article 3 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 38-833, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-833.Member and employer contributions; disability
A.Beginning January 1, 2014, the defined
contribution system is the retirement program for elected officials, unless the
elected official is described in section 38727, subsection
B.Elected officials shall be enrolled in the defined contribution
plan established by the board pursuant to this article.
B.Each elected official who is a member of the
defined contribution system shall contribute eight per cent
percent of the member's gross compensation by salary reduction
that shall be deposited in the member's annuity account. Each member shall
also contribute to the elected officials' defined contribution retirement
system disability program pursuant to article 3.2 of this chapter.
C.Although designated as employee contributions,
all member contributions made to the defined contribution system shall be
picked up and paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the
employee.The contributions picked up by an employer may be made
through a reduction in the member's compensation. A member participating in
the defined contribution system does not have the option of choosing to receive
the contributed amounts directly instead of the employer paying the amounts to
the defined contribution system.All member contributions that are
picked up by the employer as provided in this subsection shall be treated as
employer contributions under section 414(h) of the internal revenue code, shall
be excluded from members' gross income for federal and state income tax
purposes and are includable in the gross income of the members or the members'
beneficiaries only in the taxable year in which they are distributed.
D.Each employer shall annually make a contribution:
1.Equal
to six per cent percent of each member's gross
compensation. The pro rata share of this amount shall be paid on each date that
a member contribution is made and shall be credited to the member's annuity
account. A member who is a state
elected official and who is subject to term limits may elect not to accept the
employer's contribution to the member's annuity account that is required by
this subsection. The
state elected official who is subject to term limits shall make the election as
provided in this paragraph in writing and file the election with the board
within thirty days after the state elected official assumes office. The
election is effective on the first day of the state elected official's
eligibility for that term of office.The election not to accept the
employer's contribution to the state elected official's annuity account is
specific for that term of office.If a state elected official who is
subject to term limits fails to make an election as provided in this paragraph,
the state elected official is deemed to have elected to accept the employer's
contribution to the state elected official's annuity account. The election not
to accept the employer's contribution to the state elected official's annuity
account is irrevocable and constitutes a waiver of the employer's contribution
to the state elected official's annuity account for the state elected
official's entire term.
2.Each employer shall also contribute
To the elected officials' defined contribution retirement system disability
program pursuant to article 3.2 of this chapter.
E.Member and employer contributions and earnings on
those contributions are immediately vested.A member may receive
benefits pursuant to article 3.2 of this chapter if the member develops a total
disability.
F.At the election of a state elected official as described in
section 38831, paragraph 4, subdivision (b),
the board shall distribute the balance of the state elected official's annuity
account to the state elected official or the official's beneficiary.END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Refund of employer contribution; election
A state elected official who was subject to term limits, who
was enrolled in the elected officials' defined contribution retirement system
established pursuant to title 38, chapter 5, article 3.1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, because the state elected official was not an active, an inactive or
a retired member of the elected officials' retirement plan or a member of the
elected officials' retirement plan with a disability and who had continuously
elected not to participate in the elected officials' retirement plan pursuant
to section 38-804, subsection A, Arizona Revised Statutes, and in the Arizona
state retirement system pursuant to section 38727, subsection A, Arizona
Revised Statutes, since initially being elected before January 1, 2014 as a
state elected official who is subject to term limits may elect to return the
employer's contributions and the earnings on those contributions that were deposited,
pursuant to section 38833, Arizona Revised Statutes, in the state
elected official's annuity account. The election under this section shall be
made within one hundred eighty days after the effective date of this section or
the employer's contributions and the earnings on those contributions will
remain in the state elected official's annuity account until distribution.
Sec.8.Retroactivity
Sections 38727, 38801, 38804 and 38831,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, apply retroactively to from
and after September 12, 2013.

