







REFERENCE TITLE: racial profiling; prohibition; reporting







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1231









Introduced by
Senators
  Miranda, Meza; Representatives Espinoza, Fernandez: Senators Bradley, Contreras,
  Dalessandro, Hobbs, Pancrazi; Representative Velasquez





AN ACT

amending title
41, chapter 9, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 10; relating to law
enforcement.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, chapter 9, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding article 10, to read:
ARTICLE 10.RACIAL PROFILING
START_STATUTE41-1494.Definitions
In this article, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Board"
means the Arizona peace officer standards and training board.
2."Law
enforcement agency" means the department of public safety, a county
sheriff's department, a police department of a city or town or any other agency
that employs a peace officer.
3."Peace
Officer" has the same meaning prescribed in section 1215 and
includes any other person who is certified as a peace officer by the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board.
4."Racial
profiling" means the detention, official restraint or other disparate
treatment of an individual solely on the basis of the racial or ethnic status
of the individual. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-1494.01.Racial profiling prohibited
A.A peace
officer may not engage in racial profiling.
B.A peace
officer may not use the race or ethnicity of an individual as the sole factor
either:
1.In
determining the existence of probable cause to take into custody or arrest an
individual.
2.Constituting
a particularized suspicion that an offense has been or is being committed to
justify the detention of an individual or the investigatory stop of a motor
vehicle. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-1494.02.Racial profiling prevention policy; records; immunity;
mandatory reporting 
A.The
Arizona peace officer standards and training board may develop and distribute a
suggested model written racial profiling prevention policy for use by law
enforcement agencies the board may not mandate the adoption of the model policy
except for any law enforcement agency that fails to timely develop and provide
to the board a policy for that agency.
B.With
respect to motor vehicle stops, beginning January 1, 2017, every peace officer
shall record and retain the following information using the form that is
developed and adopted by a law enforcement agency or The board:
1.The
number of motor vehicle stops.
2.The
characteristics of race or ethnicity of the person stopped. The identification
of the characteristics shall be based on the observation and perception of the
peace officer responsible for reporting the motor vehicle stop, and the person
stopped is not required to provide the information.
3.If the
stop is for a violation of law, the nature of the alleged violation that
resulted in the motor vehicle stop.
4.Whether a
warning or citation was issued, an arrest was made or a search was conducted as
a result of the motor vehicle stop. For the purposes of this paragraph, search
does not include a search incident to arrest or an inventory search.
5.Any
additional information that the peace officer deems appropriate.
C.On or before
October 1, 2017 and annually thereafter, each law enforcement agency in this
state shall provide to the board, in a form prescribed by the board, a summary
report of the information recorded pursuant to subsection B of this section.
D.The board
may develop a uniform system for receiving allegations of racial profiling.
Each law enforcement agency in this state shall provide to the board a copy of
each allegation of racial profiling received and written notification of the
review and disposition of the allegation. No information revealing the
identity of the peace officer involved in the stop may be used, transmitted or
disclosed in violation of any collective bargaining agreement provision or
personnel rule under which the peace officer is employed. No information
revealing the identity of the complainant may be used, transmitted or disclosed
in the form alleging racial profiling.
E.Any peace
officer who in good faith records information on a motor vehicle stop pursuant
to this section is not liable in any civil action for the act of recording the
information unless the peace officer's conduct was unreasonable, reckless or
otherwise contrary to law.
F.the
board, within the limits of its existing appropriations, including any grant
monies that the board is awarded for such purpose, shall provide for an annual
review and analysis of the prevalence and disposition of motor vehicle stops
based on racial profiling and allegations of racial profiling involved in other
detentions reported pursuant to this section. After the review and analysis,
the board, when it deems warranted, may inquire into and study individual law
enforcement agency circumstances in which the raw data collected and analyzed
raises at least some issue or the appearance of possible racial profiling. The
board may make recommendations to any law enforcement agency to improve
measures to prevent racial profiling or the appearance of racial profiling.
The board shall annually report to the Governor and the Legislature the results
of any review, analysis, inquiry and study and any recommendations by the board
to any law enforcement agency.
G.Unless
restricted by privilege, any peace officer, prosecutor, defense attorney or
probation officer who becomes aware of incidents of racial profiling by a law
enforcement agency shall report the incidents to the board within thirty days
after becoming aware of the incidents. END_STATUTE

