







REFERENCE TITLE: probation; juvenile; adult







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1298









Introduced by
Senator
  Driggs





AN ACT

amending sections
8341, 8352, 8355, 13902, 13914 and 13916,
Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to probation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-341.Disposition and commitment; definitions
A.After receiving and considering the evidence on
the proper disposition of the case, the court may enter judgment as follows:
1.It may award a delinquent juvenile:
(a)To the care of the juvenile's parents, subject
to the supervision of a probation department.
(b)To a probation department, subject to any
conditions the court may impose, including a period of incarceration in a
juvenile detention center of not more than one year.
(c)To a reputable citizen of good moral character,
subject to the supervision of a probation department.
(d)To a private agency or institution, subject to
the supervision of a probation officer.
(e)To the department of juvenile corrections.
(f)To maternal or paternal relatives, subject to
the supervision of a probation department.
(g)To an appropriate official of a foreign country
of which the juvenile is a foreign national who is unaccompanied by a parent or
guardian in this state to remain on unsupervised probation for at least one
year on the condition that the juvenile cooperate with that official.
2.It may award an
incorrigible child:
(a)To the care of
the child's parents, subject to the supervision of a probation department.
(b)To the protective supervision of a probation
department, subject to any conditions the court may impose.
(c)To a reputable citizen of good moral character,
subject to the supervision of a probation department.
(d)To a public or private agency, subject to the
supervision of a probation department.
(e)To maternal or paternal relatives, subject to
the supervision of a probation department.
B.If a juvenile is placed on probation pursuant to
this section, the period of probation may continue until the juvenile's eighteenth
birthday, except that the term of probation shall not exceed one year if all of
the following apply:
1.The juvenile is not charged with a subsequent
offense.
2.The juvenile has not been found in violation of a
condition of probation.
3.The court has not made a determination that it is
in the best interests of the juvenile or the public to require continued
supervision. The court shall state by minute entry or written order its
reasons for finding that continued supervision is required.
4.The offense for which the juvenile is placed on
probation does not involve a dangerous offense as defined in section 13105.
5.The offense for which the juvenile is placed on
probation does not involve a violation of title 13, chapter 14 or 35.1.
6.Restitution ordered pursuant to section 8344
has been made.
7.The juvenile's parents have not requested that
the court continue the juvenile's probation for more than one year.
C.If a juvenile is adjudicated as a first time
felony juvenile offender, the court shall provide the following written notice
to the juvenile:
You have been adjudicated a first time felony juvenile
offender. You are now on notice that if you are adjudicated of another offense
that would be a felony offense if committed by an adult and if you commit the
other offense when you are fourteen years of age or older, you will may
be placed on juvenile intensive probation, which may include home
arrest and electronic monitoring, or you may be placed on juvenile intensive
probation and may be incarcerated for a period of time in a juvenile detention
center, or you may be committed to the department of juvenile corrections or
you may be prosecuted as an adult. If you are convicted as an adult of a
felony offense and you commit any other offense, you will be prosecuted as an
adult.
D.If a juvenile is fourteen years of age or older
and is adjudicated as a repeat felony juvenile offender, the juvenile court shall may place the juvenile on juvenile intensive
probation, which may include home arrest and electronic monitoring, may place
the juvenile on juvenile intensive probation, which may include incarceration
for a period of time in a juvenile detention center, or may commit the juvenile
to the department of juvenile corrections pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
1, subdivision (e) of this section for a significant period of time.
E.If the juvenile is adjudicated as a repeat felony
juvenile offender, the court shall provide the following written notice to the
juvenile:
You have been adjudicated a repeat felony juvenile offender.
You are now on notice that if you are arrested for another offense that would
be a felony offense if committed by an adult and if you commit the other
offense when you are fifteen years of age or older, you will be tried as an
adult in the criminal division of the superior court. If you commit the other
offense when you are fourteen years of age or older, you may be tried as an
adult in the criminal division of the superior court. If you are convicted as
an adult, you will be sentenced to a term of incarceration. If you are
convicted as an adult of a felony offense and you commit any other offense, you
will be prosecuted as an adult.
F.The failure or inability of the court to provide
the notices required under subsections C and E of this section does not
preclude the use of the prior adjudications for any purpose otherwise
permitted.
G.Except as provided in subsection S of this
section, after considering the nature of the offense and the age, physical and
mental condition and earning capacity of the juvenile, the court shall order
the juvenile to pay a reasonable monetary assessment if the court determines
that an assessment is in aid of rehabilitation. If the director of the
department of juvenile corrections determines that enforcement of an order for
monetary assessment as a term and condition of conditional liberty is not costeffective,
the director may require the youth to perform an equivalent amount of community
restitution in lieu of the payment ordered as a condition of conditional
liberty.
H.If a child is adjudicated incorrigible, the court
may impose a monetary assessment on the child of not more than one hundred
fifty dollars.
I.A juvenile who is charged with unlawful purchase,
possession or consumption of spirituous liquor is subject to section 8323.
The monetary assessment for a conviction of unlawful purchase, possession or
consumption of spirituous liquor by a juvenile shall not exceed five hundred
dollars. The court of competent jurisdiction may order a monetary assessment
or equivalent community restitution.
J.The court shall require the monetary assessment
imposed under subsection G or H of this section on a juvenile who is not
committed to the department of juvenile corrections to be satisfied in one or
both of the following forms:
1.Monetary reimbursement by the juvenile in a lump
sum or installment payments through the clerk of the superior court for
appropriate distribution.
2.A program of work, not in conflict with regular
schooling, to repair damage to the victim's property, to provide community
restitution or to provide the juvenile with a job for wages.The
court order for restitution or monetary assessment shall specify, according to
the dispositional program, the amount of reimbursement and the portion of wages
of either existing or provided work that is to be credited toward satisfaction
of the restitution or assessment, or the nature of the work to be performed and
the number of hours to be spent working.The number of hours to be
spent working shall be set by the court based on the severity of the offense
but shall not be less than sixteen hours.
K.If a juvenile is committed to the department of
juvenile corrections, the court shall specify the amount of the monetary assessment
imposed pursuant to subsection G or H of this section.
L.After considering the length of stay guidelines
developed pursuant to section 412816, subsection C, the court may set
forth in the order of commitment the minimum period during which the juvenile
shall remain in secure care while in the custody of the department of juvenile
corrections. When the court awards a juvenile to the department of juvenile
corrections or an institution or agency, it shall transmit with the order of
commitment copies of a diagnostic psychological evaluation and educational
assessment if one has been administered, copies of the case report, all other
psychological and medical reports, restitution orders, any request for
postadjudication notice that has been submitted by a victim and any other
documents or records pertaining to the case requested by the department of
juvenile corrections or an institution or agency. The department shall not
release a juvenile from secure care before the juvenile completes the length of
stay determined by the court in the commitment order unless the county attorney
in the county from which the juvenile was committed requests the committing
court to reduce the length of stay. The department may temporarily escort the
juvenile from secure care pursuant to section 41-2804, may release the juvenile
from secure care without a further court order after the juvenile completes the
length of stay determined by the court or may retain the juvenile in secure
care for any period subsequent to the completion of the length of stay in
accordance with the law.
M.Written notice of the release of any juvenile
pursuant to subsection L of this section shall be made to any victim requesting
notice, the juvenile court that committed the juvenile and the county attorney
of the county from which the juvenile was committed.
N.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, if a
person is under the supervision of the court as an adjudicated delinquent
juvenile at the time the person reaches eighteen years of age, treatment
services may be provided until the person reaches twentyone years of age
if the court, the person and the state agree to the provision of the treatment
and a motion to transfer the person pursuant to section 8327 has not
been filed or has been withdrawn. The court may terminate the provision of
treatment services after the person reaches eighteen years of age if the court
determines that any of the following applies:
1.The person is not progressing toward treatment
goals.
2.The person terminates treatment.
3.The person commits a new offense after reaching
eighteen years of age.
4.Continued treatment is not required or is not in
the best interests of the state or the person.
O.On the request of a victim of an act that may
have involved significant exposure as defined in section 131415 or that
if committed by an adult would be a sexual offense, the prosecuting attorney
shall petition the adjudicating court to require that the juvenile be tested
for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus. If the victim is a minor
the prosecuting attorney shall file this petition at the request of the
victim's parent or guardian. If the act committed against a victim is an act
that if committed by an adult would be a sexual offense or the court determines
that sufficient evidence exists to indicate that significant exposure occurred,
it shall order the department of juvenile corrections or the department of
health services to test the juvenile pursuant to section 131415.
Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the department of juvenile corrections
and the department of health services shall release the test results only to
the victim, the delinquent juvenile, the delinquent juvenile's parent or
guardian and a minor victim's parent or guardian and shall counsel them
regarding the meaning and health implications of the results.
P.If a juvenile has been adjudicated delinquent for
an offense that if committed by an adult would be a felony
an offense listed in section 411750, subsection C, the
court shall provide the department of public safety Arizona automated
fingerprint identification system established in section 412411 with the
juvenile's tenprint fingerprints,
personal identification data and other pertinent information. If a juvenile
has been committed to the department of juvenile corrections the department
shall provide the fingerprints and information required by this subsection to
the Arizona automated fingerprint identification system.If the
juvenile's fingerprints and information have been previously submitted to the
Arizona automated fingerprint identification system the information is not
required to be resubmitted.
Q.Access to fingerprint records submitted pursuant
to subsection P of this section shall be limited to the administration of
criminal justice as defined in section 411750. Dissemination of
fingerprint information shall be limited to the name of the juvenile, juvenile
case number, date of adjudication and court of adjudication.
R.If a juvenile is adjudicated delinquent for an
offense that if committed by an adult would be a misdemeanor, the court may
prohibit the juvenile from carrying or possessing a firearm while the juvenile
is under the jurisdiction of the department of juvenile corrections or the
juvenile court.
S.If a juvenile is adjudicated delinquent for a
violation of section 131602, subsection A, paragraph 5, the court shall
order the juvenile to pay a fine of at least three hundred dollars but not more
than one thousand dollars. Any restitution ordered shall be paid in accordance
with section 13809, subsection A. The court may order the juvenile to
perform community restitution in lieu of the payment for all or part of the
fine if it is in the best interests of the juvenile.The amount of
community restitution shall be equivalent to the amount of the fine by
crediting any service performed at a rate of ten dollars per hour. If the
juvenile is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of section 131602,
subsection A, paragraph 5 and is ordered to perform community restitution, the
court may order the parent or guardian of the juvenile to assist the juvenile
in the performance of the community restitution if both of the following apply:
1.The parent or guardian had knowledge that the
juvenile intended to engage in or was engaging in the conduct that gave rise to
the violation.
2.The parent or guardian knowingly provided the
juvenile with the means to engage in the conduct that gave rise to the
violation.
T.If a juvenile is adjudicated delinquent for an
offense involving the purchase, possession or consumption of spirituous liquor
or a violation of title 13, chapter 34 and is placed on juvenile probation, the
court may order the juvenile to submit to random drug and alcohol testing at
least two times per week as a condition of probation.
U.A juvenile who is adjudicated delinquent for an
offense involving the purchase, possession or consumption of spirituous liquor
or a violation of title 13, chapter 34, who is placed on juvenile probation and
who is found to have consumed any spirituous liquor or to have used any drug
listed in section 133401 while on probation is in violation of the
juvenile's probation.If a
juvenile who commits a
third or subsequent violation of a condition of probation as prescribed by this
subsection, the juvenile shall
be brought before the juvenile court and, if the allegations are proven, the
court shall either revoke probation and hold a disposition hearing pursuant to
this section or select additional conditions of probation as it deems
necessary, including detention, global position system monitoring, additional
alcohol or drug treatment, community restitution, additional drug or alcohol
testing or a monetary assessment.
V.For the purposes of this section:
1."First time felony juvenile offender"
means a juvenile who is adjudicated delinquent for an offense that would be a
felony offense if committed by an adult.
2."Repeat felony juvenile offender" means
a juvenile to whom both of the following apply:
(a)Is adjudicated delinquent for an offense that
would be a felony offense if committed by an adult.
(b)Previously has been adjudicated a first time
felony juvenile offender.
3."Sexual offense" means oral sexual
contact, sexual contact or sexual intercourse as defined in section 131401.
END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-352, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-352.Intensive probation; evaluation; criteria; limit;
conditions
A.A juvenile probation officer shall prepare a
disposition summary report for every juvenile who has been adjudicated of a
delinquent act or of a technical violation of probation.
B.The juvenile probation officer shall evaluate the
needs of the juvenile and the juvenile's risk to the community, including the
nature of the offense, the delinquent history of the juvenile, the juvenile's
history of referrals and adjustments and the recommendation of the juvenile's
parents.The juvenile probation officer shall include the
recommendation of the juvenile's parents in the disposition summary report. If
the nature of the offense and the prior delinquent history of the juvenile
indicate that the juvenile should be included in an intensive probation program
pursuant to supreme court guidelines for juvenile intensive probation, the
juvenile probation officer may recommend to the court that the juvenile be
granted intensive probation.
C.After reviewing the juvenile's prior record, the
facts and circumstances of the current delinquent act or technical violation of
probation and the disposition summary report, the court may grant the juvenile
a period of intensive probation.
D.When granting intensive probation the court shall
set forth on the record the factual reasons for using the disposition.
E.Intensive probation shall be conditioned on the
juvenile:
1.Participating in one or more of the following throughout the term of intensive probation, if approved by the court or probation officer,
for not less than thirtytwo hours each week throughout the term of probation:
(a)School.
(b)A court
ordered treatment program.
(c)Employment.
(d)Supervised community restitution work.
(e)An activity that improves the
juvenile's prosocial skill development, including enhancing the juvenile's
relationship with the juvenile's family.
2.Paying restitution and probation fees except that
the inability to pay probation fees or restitution does not prohibit
participation in the intensive probation program.
3.Remaining at a place of residence at all times
except to attend school, work or treatment, to perform community restitution or
to participate in some activity, as specifically allowed in each instance by
the supervising juvenile probation officer, or if in the direct company of a
parent, guardian or custodian, as approved by the juvenile probation officer.
4.Allowing administration of drug and alcohol tests
as directed by a juvenile probation officer.
5.Meeting any other conditions imposed by the
court, including electronic monitoring, to meet the needs of the juvenile or to
limit the risks to the community.
F.Probation fees shall be deposited in the juvenile
probation fund established pursuant to section 12268. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 8-355, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-355.School; employment; community restitution programs
The juvenile intensive probation team shall ensure that each
juvenile under its supervision is either
employed, attending school, participating in a community restitution program or
attending a court ordered treatment program or any combination thereof as
ordered by the court participating
in one or more of the following, if approved by the court or probation officer,
for not less than thirtytwo hours each week.
throughout the term of intensive probation:
1.School.
2.A
treatment program.
3.Employment.
4.An
activity that improves the juvenile's prosocial skill development, including
enhancing the juvenile's relationship with the juvenile's family. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 13-902, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-902.Periods of probation; monitoring; fees; definition
A.Unless terminated sooner, probation may continue
for the following periods:
1.For a class 2 felony, seven years.
2.For a class 3 felony, five years.
3.For a class 4 felony, four years.
4.For a class 5 or 6 felony, three years.
5.For a class 1 misdemeanor, three years.
6.For a class 2 misdemeanor, two years.
7.For a class 3 misdemeanor, one year.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section,
unless terminated sooner, probation may continue for the following periods:
1.For a violation of section 281381 or 281382,
five years.
2.For a violation of section 281383, ten
years.
C.When
If the court has
required, as a condition of probation, that the defendant make restitution for
any economic loss related to the defendant's offense and that condition has not
been satisfied, the court at any time before the termination or expiration of
probation may extend the period within the following limits:
1.For a felony, not more than five years.
2.For a misdemeanor, not more than two years.
D.Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
justice courts and municipal courts may impose the probation periods specified
in subsection A, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 and subsection B, paragraph 1 of this
section.
E.After conviction of a felony offense or an
attempt to commit any offense that is included in chapter 14 or 35.1 of this
title or section 132308.01, 132923 or 133623, if probation
is available, probation may continue for a term of not less than the term that
is specified in subsection A of this section up to and including life and that
the court believes is appropriate for the ends of justice.
F.After conviction of a violation of section 133824,
subsection A, if a term of probation is imposed and the offense for which the
person was required to register was a felony, probation may continue for a term
of not less than the term that is specified in subsection A of this section up
to and including life and that the court believes is appropriate for the ends
of justice.
G.If a person is convicted on or after November 1,
2006 of a dangerous crime against children as defined in section 13705,
a term of probation is imposed, the person is required to register pursuant to
section 133821 and the person is classified as a level three offender
pursuant to section 133825, the court shall require global position
system or electronic monitoring for the duration of the term of probation, unless the court determines that the
defendant is in a secure facility or is physically incapacitated to the extent
that global position system or electronic monitoring is unnecessary.
The court may impose a fee on the probationer to offset the cost of the
monitoring device required by this subsection.The fee shall be
deposited in the adult probation services fund pursuant to section 12267,
subsection A, paragraph 3. This subsection does not preclude global position
system or electronic monitoring of any other person who is serving a term of
probation.
H.For the
purposes of this section, "secure facility" means a facility whose
purpose is to prevent a person from leaving the facility because of the danger
the person may present to oneself or the community. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 13-914, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-914.Intensive probation; evaluation; sentence; criteria;
limit; conditions
A.An adult probation officer shall prepare a
presentence report for every offender who has either:
1.Been convicted of a felony and for whom the
granting of probation is not prohibited by law.
2.Violated probation by commission of a technical
violation that was not chargeable or indictable as a criminal offense.
B.The adult probation officer shall evaluate the
needs of the offender and the offender's risk to the community, including the
nature of the offense and criminal history of the offender.If the
nature of the offense and the prior criminal history of the offender indicate
that the offender should be included in an intensive probation program pursuant
to supreme court guidelines for intensive probation, the adult probation officer
may recommend to the court that the offender be granted intensive probation.
C.The court may suspend the imposition or execution
of the sentence and grant the offender a period of intensive probation in
accordance with this chapter. Except for sentences that are imposed pursuant
to section 133601, the sentence is tentative to the extent that it may
be altered or revoked pursuant to this chapter, but for all other purposes it
is a final judgment of conviction. This subsection does not preclude the court
from imposing a term of intensive probation pursuant to section 133601.
D.When granting intensive probation the court shall
set forth on the record the factual and legal reasons in support of the
sentence.
E.Intensive probation shall be conditioned on the
offender:
1.Maintaining employment or maintaining fulltime student status at a
school subject to title 15 or title 32, chapter 30, or a combination of employment and student status,
and making progress deemed satisfactory to the probation officer, or both, or being involved in
supervised job searches and community restitution work at least six days a week
throughout the offender's term of intensive probation.
2.Paying restitution and probation fees of not less
than seventy-five dollars unless, after determining the inability of the
offender to pay the fee, the court assesses a lesser fee. Probation fees shall
be deposited in the adult probation services fund established by section 12267.
Any amount assessed pursuant to this paragraph shall be used to supplement
monies used for the salaries of adult probation and surveillance officers and
for support of programs and services of the superior court adult probation
departments.
3.Establishing a residence at a place approved by
the intensive probation team and not changing the offender's residence without
the team's prior approval.
4.Remaining at the offender's place of residence at
all times except to go to work, to attend school, to perform community
restitution and as specifically allowed in each instance by the adult probation
officer.
5.Allowing administration of drug and alcohol tests
if requested by a member of the intensive probation team.
6.Performing not less than forty hours of community
restitution each month. Offenders who
are fulltime students, employed or in a treatment program approved by the court
or the probation department may be exempted or required to
perform fewer hours of community restitution.For good cause, the
court may reduce the number of community restitution hours performed to not
less than twenty hours each month.
7.Meeting any other conditions imposed by the court
to meet the needs of the offender and limit the risks to the community,
including participation in a program of community punishment authorized in title
12, chapter 2, article 11. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 13-916, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-916.Intensive probation teams; adult probation officer
qualifications; duties; case load limit
A.The chief adult probation officer in each county,
with approval of the presiding judge of the superior court, shall appoint
intensive probation teams consisting of one adult probation officer and one
surveillance officer, two adult probation officers or one adult probation
officer and two surveillance officers.
B.A two person intensive probation team shall
supervise no more than twentyfive persons at one time, and a three
person intensive probation team shall supervise no more than forty persons at
one time.
C.The adult probation officers shall meet the
bonding requirements and experience and education standards established
pursuant to section 12251.
D.The intensive probation team may serve warrants
on, make arrests of and bring before the court persons who have violated the
terms of intensive probation.
E.The adult probation and surveillance officers
both have the authority of a peace officer in the performance of their duties
but are not eligible to participate in the public safety personnel retirement
system.
F.The intensive probation team shall:
1.Secure and keep a complete identification record
of each person supervised by the team and a written statement of the conditions
of the probation.
2.Exercise close supervision and observation over
persons sentenced to intensive probation including both of the following:
(a)Visual contact with each probationer at least
four times per week.
(b)Weekly contact
with the employer of the probationer verification of the probationer's employment.
3.Obtain and assemble information concerning the
conduct of persons sentenced to intensive probation, including weekly arrest
records, and report the information to the court.
4.Report to the court if the probationer engages in
conduct constituting an offense.
5.Bring a defaulting probationer into court if, in
the judgment of the adult probation officer, the probationer's conduct
justifies revoking the intensive probation.
6.Monitor the payment of restitution and probation
fees and bring into court any probationer who fails to pay restitution or fees.
7.Perform any other responsibilities required by
the terms and conditions imposed by the court. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Global position system and electronic
monitoring; applicability
A.Beginning on
the effective date of this act, the requirement for global position system or
electronic monitoring prescribed by section 13902, subsection G, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, does not apply to any person who on
the effective date of this act is on global position system or electronic
monitoring prescribed by section 13902, subsection G, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by this act, who was convicted or found guilty except
insane before July 13, 2009 of a dangerous crime against children as defined in
section 13705, Arizona Revised Statutes, and who at the time of
conviction or finding of guilty except insane was not required to register
pursuant to section 133821, Arizona Revised Statutes, and was not
classified as a level three offender.
B.Section 13902,
subsection G, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act, applies to all
persons who are required to have global position system or electronic
monitoring, including persons who were required to have global position system
or electronic monitoring on or before the effective date of this section.

