







REFERENCE TITLE: animal cruelty; classification







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1281









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
132910, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to animal cruelty.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2910, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2910.Cruelty to animals; interference with working or service
animal; classification; definitions
A.A person commits cruelty to animals if the person
does any of the following:
1.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly subjects
any animal under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or
abandonment.
2.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly fails to
provide medical attention necessary to prevent protracted suffering to any
animal under the person's custody or control.
3.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly inflicts
unnecessary physical injury to any animal.
4.Recklessly subjects any animal to cruel
mistreatment.
5.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly kills any
animal under the custody or control of another person without either legal privilege
or consent of the owner.
6.Recklessly interferes with, kills or harms a
working or service animal without either legal privilege or consent of the
owner.
7.Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly leaves an
animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle and physical injury to or
death of the animal is likely to result.
8.Intentionally or knowingly subjects any animal
under the person's custody or control to cruel neglect or abandonment that
results in serious physical injury to the animal.
9.Intentionally or knowingly subjects any animal to
cruel mistreatment.
10.Intentionally or knowingly interferes with,
kills or harms a working or service animal without either legal privilege or
consent of the owner.
11.Intentionally or knowingly allows any dog that
is under the person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause
physical injury to a service animal.
12.Recklessly allows any dog that is under the
person's custody or control to interfere with, kill or cause physical injury to
a service animal.
13.Intentionally or knowingly obtains or exerts
unauthorized control over a service animal with the intent to deprive the
service animal handler of the service animal.
B.It is a defense to subsection A of this section
if:
1.Any person exposes poison to be taken by a dog
that has killed or wounded livestock or poison to be taken by predatory animals
on premises owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
protecting the person or the person's livestock or poultry, the treated
property is kept posted by the person who authorized or performed the treatment
until the poison has been removed and the poison is removed by the person
exposing the poison after the threat to the person or the person's livestock or
poultry has ceased to exist. The posting required shall provide adequate
warning to persons who enter the property by the point or points of normal
entry. The warning notice that is posted shall be readable at a distance of
fifty feet, shall contain a poison statement and symbol and shall state the
word "danger" or "warning".
2.Any person uses poisons in and immediately around
buildings owned, leased or controlled by the person for the purpose of
controlling wild and domestic rodents as otherwise allowed by the laws of the
state, excluding any furbearing animals as defined in section 17101.
C.This section does not prohibit or restrict:
1.The taking of wildlife or other activities
permitted by or pursuant to title 17.
2.Activities permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
3.Activities regulated by the Arizona game and fish
department or the Arizona department of agriculture.
D.A peace officer, animal control enforcement agent
or animal control enforcement deputy may use reasonable force to open a vehicle
to rescue an animal if the animal is left in the vehicle as prescribed in
subsection A, paragraph 7 of this section.
E.A person who is convicted of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 6 or 10 of this section is liable as follows:
1.If the working or service animal was killed or
disabled, to the owner or agency that owns the working or service animal and
that employs the handler or to the owner or handler for the replacement and
training costs of the working or service animal and for any veterinary bills.
2.To the owner or agency that owns a working or
service animal for the salary of the handler for the period of time that the
handler's services are lost to the owner or agency.
3.To the owner for the owner's contractual losses
with the agency.
F.An incorporated city or town or a county may
adopt an ordinance with misdemeanor provisions at least as stringent as the
misdemeanor provisions of this section, except that any ordinance adopted shall
not prohibit or restrict any activity involving a dog, whether the dog is
restrained or not, if the activity is directly related to the business of
shepherding or herding livestock and the activity is necessary for the safety
of a human, the dog or livestock or is permitted by or pursuant to title 3.
G.A person who violates subsection A, paragraph 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 12 of this section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. A
person who violates subsection A, paragraph 8, 9, 10, 11 or 13 of this section
is guilty of a class 6 5 felony.
H.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Animal"
means a mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian.
2."Cruel mistreatment" means to torture
or otherwise inflict unnecessary serious physical injury on an animal or to
kill an animal in a manner that causes protracted suffering to the animal.
3."Cruel neglect" means to fail to
provide an animal with necessary food, water or shelter.
4."Handler" means a law enforcement
officer or any other person who has successfully completed a course of training
prescribed by the person's agency or the service animal owner and who used a
specially trained animal under the direction of the person's agency or the
service animal owner.
5."Service animal" means an animal that
has completed a formal training program, that assists its owner in one or more
daily living tasks that are associated with a productive lifestyle and that is
trained to not pose a danger to the health and safety of the general public.
6."Working animal" means a horse or dog
that is used by a law enforcement agency, that is specially trained for law
enforcement work and that is under the control of a handler. END_STATUTE

