







REFERENCE TITLE: misconduct involving weapons; public
  places







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1257









Introduced by
Senators
  Kavanagh, Burges, Griffin, McGuire, Smith; Representatives Gowan, Kern, Montenegro,
  Petersen, Thorpe: Senators Barto, Biggs, Donahue, Farnsworth D, Lesko,
  Shooter; Representatives Allen J, Barton, Borrelli, Bowers, Boyer, Campbell,
  Finchem, Gray, Lawrence, Leach, Livingston, Lovas, Mesnard, Mitchell, Olson,
  Rivero, Shope, Townsend, Weninger





AN ACT

amending section
133102, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to misconduct involving
weapons.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-3102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3102.Misconduct involving weapons; defenses; classification;
definitions
A.A person commits misconduct involving weapons by
knowingly:
1.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife
concealed on his person or within his immediate control in or on a means of
transportation:
(a)In the furtherance of a serious offense as
defined in section 13706, a violent crime as defined in section 13901.03
or any other felony offense; or
(b)When contacted by a law enforcement officer and
failing to accurately answer the officer if the officer asks whether the person
is carrying a concealed deadly weapon; or
2.Carrying a deadly weapon except a pocket knife concealed
on his person or concealed within his immediate control in or on a means of
transportation if the person is under twenty-one years of age; or
3.Manufacturing, possessing, transporting, selling
or transferring a prohibited weapon, except that if the violation involves dry
ice, a person commits misconduct involving weapons by knowingly possessing the
dry ice with the intent to cause injury to or death of another person or to
cause damage to the property of another person; or
4.Possessing a deadly weapon or prohibited weapon
if such person is a prohibited possessor; or
5.Selling or transferring a deadly weapon to a
prohibited possessor; or
6.Defacing a deadly weapon; or
7.Possessing a defaced deadly weapon knowing the
deadly weapon was defaced; or
8.Using or possessing a deadly weapon during the
commission of any felony offense included in chapter 34 of this title; or
9.Discharging a firearm at an occupied structure in
order to assist, promote or further the interests of a criminal street gang, a
criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise; or
10.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
any public establishment or attending any public event and carrying a deadly
weapon on his person after a reasonable request by the operator of the
establishment or the sponsor of the event or the sponsor's agent to remove his
weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event for temporary and secure storage of the weapon pursuant to section 133102.01; or
11.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
an election polling place on the day of any election carrying a deadly weapon;
or
12.Possessing a deadly weapon on school grounds; or
13.Unless specifically authorized by law, entering
a nuclear or hydroelectric generating station carrying a deadly weapon on his
person or within the immediate control of any person; or
14.Supplying, selling or giving possession or
control of a firearm to another person if the person knows or has reason to know
that the other person would use the firearm in the commission of any felony; or
15.Using, possessing or exercising control over a
deadly weapon in furtherance of any act of terrorism as defined in section 132301
or possessing or exercising control over a deadly weapon knowing or having
reason to know that it will be used to facilitate any act of terrorism as
defined in section 132301; or
16.Trafficking in weapons or explosives for
financial gain in order to assist, promote or further the interests of a
criminal street gang, a criminal syndicate or a racketeering enterprise.
B.Subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section shall
not apply to:
1.A person in his dwelling, on his business
premises or on real property owned or leased by that person or that person's
parent, grandparent or legal guardian.
2.A member of the sheriff's volunteer posse or
reserve organization who has received and passed firearms training that is
approved by the Arizona peace officer standards and training board and who is
authorized by the sheriff to carry a concealed weapon pursuant to section 11441.
3.A firearm that is carried in:
(a)A manner where any portion of the firearm or
holster in which the firearm is carried is visible.
(b)A holster that is wholly or partially visible.
(c)A scabbard or case designed for carrying weapons
that is wholly or partially visible.
(d)Luggage.
(e)A case, holster, scabbard, pack or luggage that
is carried within a means of transportation or within a storage compartment,
map pocket, trunk or glove compartment of a means of transportation.
C.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12 and
13 of this section shall not apply to:
1.A peace officer or any person summoned by any
peace officer to assist and while actually assisting in the performance of
official duties; or
2.A member of the military forces of the United
States or of any state of the United States in the performance of official
duties; or
3.A warden, deputy warden, community correctional
officer, detention officer, special investigator or correctional officer of the
state department of corrections or the department of juvenile corrections; or
4.A person specifically licensed, authorized or
permitted pursuant to a statute of this state or of the United States.
D.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section does
not apply to an elected or appointed judicial officer in the court facility
where the judicial officer works if the judicial officer has demonstrated
competence with a firearm as prescribed in section 133112, subsection N,
except that the judicial officer shall comply with any rule or policy adopted
by the presiding judge of the superior court while in the court
facility.For the purposes of this subsection, appointed judicial
officer does not include a hearing officer or a judicial officer pro tempore that who is not a fulltime officer.
E.Subsection A, paragraphs 3 and 7 of this section
shall not apply to:
1.The possessing, transporting, selling or
transferring of weapons by a museum as a part of its collection or an
educational institution for educational purposes or by an authorized employee
of such museum or institution, if:
(a)Such museum or institution is operated by the
United States or this state or a political subdivision of this state, or by an
organization described in 26 United States Code section 170(c) as a recipient
of a charitable contribution; and
(b)Reasonable precautions are taken with respect to
theft or misuse of such material.
2.The regular and lawful transporting as merchandise;
or
3.Acquisition by a person by operation of law such
as by gift, devise or descent or in a fiduciary capacity as a recipient of the
property or former property of an insolvent, incapacitated or deceased person.
F.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall
not apply to the merchandise of an authorized manufacturer of or dealer in
prohibited weapons, when such material is intended to be manufactured,
possessed, transported, sold or transferred solely for or to a dealer, a
regularly constituted or appointed state, county or municipal police department
or police officer, a detention facility, the military service of this or
another state or the United States, a museum or educational institution or a
person specifically licensed or permitted pursuant to federal or state law.
G.Subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section shall
not apply to:
1.Shooting
ranges or shooting events, hunting areas or similar locations or activities.
2.A person
who is in a public establishment other than a vehicle or craft or at a public
event and who possesses a valid permit issued pursuant to section 133112.
This paragraph does not:
(a)Apply to a public establishment
or public event that is a secured facility.
(b)Apply to the licensed premises
of any public establishment or public event with a license issued pursuant to
title 4.
(c)Apply to a state, county or
municipal judicial department, law enforcement agency or correctional facility.
(d)Apply to any area where firearm
possession is prohibited by federal law.
(e)Apply to an educational
institution as defined in section 132911.
(f)Apply to a community college
district in this state or a university under the jurisdiction of the Arizona
board of regents.
(g)Relieve or limit an operator of
a public establishment or a sponsor of a public event from the requirements of
section 133102.01.
(h)Limit, restrict or prohibit the
rights of a private property owner, private tenant, private employer or private
business entity.
H.Subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section shall
not apply to a weapon described in section 133101, subsection A,
paragraph 8, subdivision (a), item (v), if such weapon is possessed for the
purposes of preparing for, conducting or participating in lawful exhibitions,
demonstrations, contests or athletic events involving the use of such
weapon.Subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section shall not apply
to a weapon if such weapon is possessed for the purposes of preparing for,
conducting or participating in hunter or firearm safety courses.
I.Subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section shall
not apply to the possession of a:
1.Firearm that is not loaded and that is carried
within a means of transportation under the control of an adult provided that if
the adult leaves the means of transportation the firearm shall not be visible
from the outside of the means of transportation and the means of transportation
shall be locked.
2.Firearm for use on the school grounds in a
program approved by a school.
3.Firearm by a person who possesses a certificate
of firearms proficiency pursuant to section 133112, subsection T and who
is authorized to carry a concealed firearm pursuant to the law enforcement
officers safety act of 2004 (P.L. 108277; 118 Stat. 865; 18 United
States Code sections 926B and 926C).
J.Subsection A, paragraphs 2, 3, 7 and 13 of this
section shall not apply to commercial nuclear generating station armed nuclear
security guards during the performance of official duties or during any
security training exercises sponsored by the commercial nuclear generating
station or local, state or federal authorities.
K.The operator of the establishment or the sponsor
of the event or the employee of the operator or sponsor or the agent of the
sponsor, including a public entity or public employee, is not liable for acts
or omissions pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 10 of this section unless the
operator, sponsor, employee or agent intended to cause injury or was grossly
negligent.
L.If a law enforcement officer contacts a person
who is in possession of a firearm, the law enforcement officer may take
temporary custody of the firearm for the duration of that contact.
M.Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A,
paragraph 15 of this section is a class 2 felony.Misconduct
involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 9, 14 or 16 of this section is
a class 3 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 3,
4, 8 or 13 of this section is a class 4 felony.Misconduct involving
weapons under subsection A, paragraph 12 of this section is a class 1
misdemeanor unless the violation occurs in connection with conduct that
violates section 132308, subsection A, paragraph 5, section 132312,
subsection C, section 133409 or section 133411, in which case the
offense is a class 6 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under subsection A,
paragraph 1, subdivision (a) of this section or subsection A, paragraph 5, 6 or
7 of this section is a class 6 felony. Misconduct involving weapons under
subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this section or subsection A,
paragraph 10 or 11 of this section is a class 1 misdemeanor. Misconduct
involving weapons under subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is a class 3
misdemeanor.
N.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Contacted by
a law enforcement officer" means a lawful traffic or criminal
investigation, arrest or detention or an investigatory stop by a law
enforcement officer that is based on reasonable suspicion that an offense has
been or is about to be committed.
2."Public establishment" means a
structure, vehicle or craft that is owned, leased or operated by this state or
a political subdivision of this state.
3."Public event" means a specifically
named or sponsored event of limited duration that is either conducted by a
public entity or conducted by a private entity with a permit or license granted
by a public entity. Public event does not include an unsponsored gathering of
people in a public place.
4."School" means a public or nonpublic
kindergarten program, common school or high school.
5."School grounds" means in, or on the
grounds of, a school.
6."Secured
facility" means any of the following:
(a)a public establishment or public
event that Has security personnel and electronic weapons screening devices in place
at each entrance to the public establishment or public event.
(b)a public establishment or public
event that Has security personnel who electronically screen each person who
enters the public establishment or public event to determine if the person is
carrying a deadly weapon and the security personnel require each person who is
carrying a deadly weapon to leave the weapon in possession of the security
personnel pursuant to section 13-3102.01 while the person is in the public
establishment or at the public event.
(c)The area of a public
establishment or public event that is not generally accessible to the public
and that has security personnel or biometric, coded or employee restricted
entry or a similar means of limiting access to the area that is not generally
accessible to the public. END_STATUTE

