







REFERENCE TITLE: education funding; incarceration study
  committee







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1205









Introduced by
Senator
  Sherwood





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING THE
education funding and incarceration STUDY COMMITTEE.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Education funding and incarceration study committee;
membership; duties; report; delayed repeal
A.The education funding and incarceration study
committee is established consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who are members of different political
parties. The president of the senate shall designate one of these members to
serve as cochairperson of the committee.
2.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who are
members of different political parties. The speaker of the house of
representatives shall designate one of these members to serve as cochairperson
of the committee.
3.The director of the state department of
corrections or the director's designee.
4.The director of the department of juvenile
corrections or the director's designee.
5.One certified teacher who is appointed by the
governor.
6.One certified school counselor who is appointed
by the governor.
7.One employee of the department of education who
is appointed by the superintendent of public instruction.
8.One faculty member from a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents who has expertise in data
collection or analysis, statistics or economics and who is appointed by the
governor.
9.One faculty member from a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents who has expertise in law,
criminology or sociology or another relevant field and who is appointed by the
governor.
10.One member who represents an entity that
provides education services to atrisk youth and who is appointed by the
governor.
11.One member who represents an entity that
advocates for student's academic preparedness and who is appointed by the
governor.
B.Members of the committee are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
C.A majority of the members of the committee
constitutes a quorum.
D.The committee shall conduct a thorough study of
all matters relating to the correlation between the funding levels of
kindergarten programs and grades one through twelve to the rate of
incarceration in the state department of corrections and the rate of
recidivism. The study shall review the spending levels per student or inmate
for the previous ten years, data on high school graduation and incarceration
trends, ethnic and gender ratios for student and inmate populations and
incarceration and recidivism rates in communities where lowperforming
schools are located.
E.The committee shall submit a report of its
findings and any recommendations to the governor, the president of the senate
and the speaker of the house of representatives on or before December 1, 2017
and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary of state.
F.This section is repealed from and after September
30, 2018.

