








REFERENCE TITLE: adequate water supply requirements;
  municipalities








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1268









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin; Representatives Gowan, Stevens





AN ACT

amending sections
9-463.01, 32-2181, 32-2183, 32-2197.08, 45-108, 45108.01, 45108.02,
45108.03 and 486414; relating to water supply.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-463.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-463.01.Authority
A.Pursuant to this article, the legislative body of
every municipality shall regulate the subdivision of all lands within its corporate
limits.
B.The legislative body of a municipality shall
exercise the authority granted in subsection A of this section by ordinance
prescribing:
1.Procedures to be followed in the preparation,
submission, review and approval or rejection of all final plats.
2.Standards governing the design of subdivision
plats.
3.Minimum requirements and standards for the
installation of subdivision streets, sewer and water utilities and improvements
as a condition of final plat approval.
C.By ordinance, the legislative body of any
municipality shall:
1.Require the preparation, submission and approval
of a preliminary plat as a condition precedent to submission of a final plat.
2.Establish the procedures to be followed in the
preparation, submission, review and approval of preliminary plats.
3.Make requirements as to the form and content of
preliminary plats.
4.Either determine that certain lands may not be
subdivided, by reason of adverse topography, periodic inundation, adverse
soils, subsidence of the earth's surface, high water table, lack of water or
other natural or manmade hazard to life or property, or control the lot
size, establish special grading and drainage requirements and impose other
regulations deemed reasonable and necessary for the public health, safety or
general welfare on any lands to be subdivided affected by such characteristics.
5.Require payment of a proper and reasonable fee by
the subdivider based upon on the number of lots or
parcels on the surface of the land to defray municipal costs of plat review and
site inspection.
6.Require the dedication of public streets, sewer
and water utility easements or rightsofway, within the proposed
subdivision.
7.Require the preparation and submission of
acceptable engineering plans and specifications for the installation of
required street, sewer, electric and water utilities, drainage, flood control,
adequacy of water and improvements as a condition precedent to recordation of
an approved final plat.
8.Require the posting of performance bonds,
assurances or such other security as may be appropriate and necessary to assure
the installation of required street, sewer, electric and water utilities,
drainage, flood control and improvements meeting established minimum standards
of design and construction.
D.The legislative body of any municipality may
require by ordinance that land areas within a subdivision be reserved for
parks, recreational facilities, school sites and fire stations subject to the
following conditions:
1.The requirement may only be made upon on
preliminary plats filed at least thirty days after the adoption
of a general or specific plan affecting the land area to be reserved.
2.The required reservations are in accordance with
definite principles and standards adopted by the legislative body.
3.The land area reserved shall be of such a size
and shape as to permit the remainder of the land area of the subdivision within
which the reservation is located to develop in an orderly and efficient manner.
4.The land area reserved shall be in such multiples
of streets and parcels as to permit an efficient division of the reserved area
in the event that it is not acquired within the prescribed period.
E.The public agency for whose benefit an area has
been reserved shall have a period of one year after recording the final
subdivision plat to enter into an agreement to acquire such reserved land
area.The purchase price shall be the fair market value of the
reserved land area at the time of the filing of the preliminary subdivision
plat plus the taxes against such reserved area from the date of the reservation
and any other costs incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of such
reserved area, including the interest cost incurred on any loan covering such
reserved area.
F.If the public agency for whose benefit an area
has been reserved does not exercise the reservation agreement set forth in
subsection E of this section within such one year period or such extended
period as may be mutually agreed upon
on by such public agency
and the subdivider, the reservation of such area shall terminate.
G.The legislative body of every municipality shall
comply with this article and applicable state statutes pertaining to the
hearing, approval or rejection, and recordation of:
1.Final subdivision plats.
2.Plats filed for the purpose of reverting to
acreage of land previously subdivided.
3.Plats filed for the purpose of vacating streets
or easements previously dedicated to the public.
4.Plats filed for the purpose of vacating or
redescribing lot or parcel boundaries previously recorded.
H.Approval of every preliminary and final plat by a
legislative body is conditioned upon
on compliance by the
subdivider with:
1.Rules as may be established by the department of
transportation relating to provisions for the safety of entrance upon on
and departure from abutting state primary highways.
2.Rules as may be established by a county flood
control district relating to the construction or prevention of construction of
streets in land established as being subject to periodic inundation.
3.Rules as may be established by the department of
health services or a county health department relating to the provision of
domestic water supply and sanitary sewage disposal.
I.If the subdivision is comprised composed of subdivided lands, as defined in
section 322101, and is within an active management area, as defined in
section 45402, the final plat shall not be approved unless it is
accompanied by a certificate of assured water supply issued by the director of
water resources, or unless the subdivider has obtained a written commitment of
water service for the subdivision from a city, town or private water company
designated as having an assured water supply by the director of water resources
pursuant to section 45576 or is exempt from the requirement pursuant to
section 45576.The legislative body of the municipality shall
note on the face of the final plat that a certificate of assured water supply
has been submitted with the plat or that the subdivider has obtained a written
commitment of water service for the proposed subdivision from a city, town or
private water company designated as having an assured water supply, pursuant to
section 45576, or is exempt from the requirement pursuant to section 45576.
J.Except as provided in subsections K and P of this
section, if the subdivision is composed of subdivided lands as defined in
section 322101 outside of an active management area and the director of water resources has given written notice
to the municipality pursuant to section 45108, subsection H legislative body of the municipality has
adopted an ordinance pursuant to subsection O of this section,
the final plat shall not be approved unless one of the following applies:
1.The director of water resources has determined
that there is an adequate water supply for the subdivision pursuant to section
45108 and the subdivider has included the report with the plat.
2.The subdivider has obtained a written commitment
of water service for the subdivision from a city, town or private water company
designated as having an adequate water supply by the director of water
resources pursuant to section 45108.
K.The legislative body of a municipality that has received written notice from the director of
water resources pursuant to section 45108, subsection H or that has
adopted an ordinance pursuant to subsection O of this section may provide by
ordinance an exemption from the requirement in subsection J or O of this section for a subdivision that the
director of water resources has determined will have an inadequate water supply
because the water supply will be transported to the subdivision by motor
vehicle or train if all of the following apply:
1.The legislative body determines that there is no
feasible alternative water supply for the subdivision and that the
transportation of water to the subdivision will not constitute a significant
risk to the health and safety of the residents of the subdivision.
2.If the water to be transported to the subdivision
will be withdrawn or diverted in the service area of a municipal provider as
defined in section 45561, the municipal provider has consented to the
withdrawal or diversion.
3.If the water to be transported is groundwater,
the transportation complies with the provisions governing the transportation of
groundwater in title 45, chapter 2, article 8.
4.The transportation of water to the subdivision
meets any additional conditions imposed by the legislative body.
L.A municipality that adopts the exemption
authorized by subsection K of this section shall give written notice of the
adoption of the exemption, including a certified copy of the ordinance
containing the exemption, to the director of water resources, the director of
environmental quality and the state real estate commissioner. If the
municipality later rescinds the exemption, the municipality shall give written
notice of the rescission to the director of water resources, the director of
environmental quality and the state real estate commissioner.A
municipality that rescinds an exemption adopted pursuant to subsection K of
this section shall not readopt the exemption for at least five years after the
rescission becomes effective.
M.If the legislative body of a municipality approves
a subdivision plat pursuant to subsection J, paragraph 1 or 2 or subsection O of this section, the
legislative body shall note on the face of the plat that the director of water
resources has reported that the subdivision has an adequate water supply or
that the subdivider has obtained a commitment of water service for the proposed
subdivision from a city, town or private water company designated as having an
adequate water supply pursuant to section 45108.
N.If the legislative body of a municipality
approves a subdivision plat pursuant to an exemption authorized by subsection K
of this section or granted by the director of water resources pursuant to
section 45108.02 or 45108.03:
1.The legislative body shall give written notice of
the approval to the director of water resources and the director of
environmental quality.
2.The legislative body shall include on the face of
the plat a statement that the director of water resources has determined that
the water supply for the subdivision is inadequate and a statement describing
the exemption under which the plat was approved, including a statement that the
legislative body or the director of water resources, whichever applies, has
determined that the specific conditions of the exemption were met. If the
director subsequently informs the legislative body that the subdivision is
being served by a water provider that has been designated by the director as
having an adequate water supply pursuant to section 45108, the
legislative body shall record in the county recorder's office a statement
disclosing that fact.
O.If a
municipality has not been given written notice by the director of water
resources pursuant to section 45108, subsection H, The
legislative body of the a municipality, to protect the
public health and safety, may provide by ordinance that, except as provided in
subsections K and P of this section, the final plat of a subdivision located in
the municipality and outside of an active management area will not be approved
by the legislative body unless the director of water resources has determined
that there is an adequate water supply for the subdivision pursuant to section
45108 or the subdivider has obtained a written commitment of water
service for the subdivision from a city, town or private water company
designated as having an adequate water supply by the director of water
resources pursuant to section 45108. Before holding a public hearing to
consider whether to enact an ordinance pursuant to this subsection, a
municipality shall provide written notice of the hearing to the board of
supervisors of the county in which the municipality is located. A municipality
that enacts an ordinance pursuant to this subsection shall give written notice
of the enactment of the ordinance, including a certified copy of the ordinance,
to the director of water resources, the director of environmental quality, the
state real estate commissioner and the board of supervisors of the county in
which the municipality is located. If a municipality enacts an ordinance
pursuant to this subsection, water providers may be eligible to receive monies
in a water supply development fund, as otherwise provided by law.
P.Subsections J and O of this section do not apply
to:
1.A proposed subdivision that the director of water
resources has determined will have an inadequate water supply pursuant to
section 45108 if the director grants an exemption for the subdivision
pursuant to section 45108.02 and the exemption has not expired or if the
director grants an exemption pursuant to section 45108.03.
2.A proposed subdivision that received final plat
approval from the municipality before the requirement for an adequate water
supply became effective in the municipality if the plat has not been materially
changed since it received the final plat approval. If changes were made to the
plat after the plat received the final plat approval, the director of water
resources shall determine whether the changes are material pursuant to the
rules adopted by the director to implement section 45108.If
the municipality approves a plat pursuant to this paragraph and the director of
water resources has determined that there is an inadequate water supply for the
subdivision pursuant to section 45108, the municipality shall note this on
the face of the plat.
Q.If the subdivision is composed of subdivided
lands as defined in section 322101 outside of an active management area
and the municipality has not received
written notice pursuant to section 45108, subsection H and
has not adopted an ordinance pursuant to subsection O of this section:
1.If the director of water resources has determined
that there is an adequate water supply for the subdivision pursuant to section
45108 or if the subdivider has obtained a written commitment of water
service for the subdivision from a city, town or private water company
designated as having an adequate water supply by the director of water
resources pursuant to section 45108, the municipality shall note this on
the face of the plat if the plat is approved.
2.If the director of water resources has determined
that there is an inadequate water supply for the subdivision pursuant to
section 45108, the municipality shall note this on the face of the plat
if the plat is approved.
R.Every municipality is responsible for the
recordation of all final plats approved by the legislative body and shall
receive from the subdivider and transmit to the county recorder the recordation
fee established by the county recorder.
S.Pursuant to provisions of applicable state
statutes, the legislative body of any municipality may itself prepare or have
prepared a plat for the subdivision of land under municipal ownership.
T.The legislative bodies of cities and towns may
regulate by ordinance land splits within their corporate
limits.Authority granted under this section refers to the
determination of division lines, area and shape of the tracts or parcels and
does not include authority to regulate the terms or condition of the sale or
lease nor does it include the authority to regulate the sale or lease of tracts
or parcels that are not the result of land splits as defined in section 9463.
U.For any subdivision that consists of ten or fewer
lots, tracts or parcels, each of which is of a size as prescribed by the
legislative body, the legislative body of each municipality may expedite the
processing of or waive the requirement to prepare, submit and receive approval
of a preliminary plat as a condition precedent to submitting a final plat and
may waive or reduce infrastructure standards or requirements proportional to
the impact of the subdivision.Requirements for dustcontrolled
access and drainage improvements shall not be waived. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-2181, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2181.Notice to commissioner of intention to subdivide lands;
unlawful acting in concert; exceptions; deed restrictions; definition
A.Before offering
subdivided lands for sale or lease, the subdivider shall notify the
commissioner in writing of the subdivider's intention. The notice shall
contain:
1.The name and address of
the owner.If the holder of any ownership interest in the land is other
than an individual, such as a corporation, partnership or trust, the notice shall contain a
statement naming the type of legal entity and listing the interest and the
extent of any interest of each principal in the entity. For the purposes of
this section, "principal" means any person or entity having a ten per cent percent or more financial interest or, if the
legal entity is a trust, each beneficiary of the trust holding a ten per cent percent or more beneficial interest.
2.The name and address of
the subdivider.
3.The legal description
and area of the land.
4.A true statement of the
condition of the title to the land, including all encumbrances on the land, and
a statement of the provisions agreed to by the holder of any blanket
encumbrance enabling a purchaser to acquire title to a lot or parcel free of
the lien of the blanket encumbrance on completion of all payments and
performance of all of the terms and provisions required to be made or performed
by the purchaser under the real estate sales contract by which the purchaser
has acquired the lot or parcel. The subdivider shall file copies of documents
acceptable to the department containing these provisions with the commissioner
before the sale of any subdivision lot or parcel subject to a blanket
encumbrance.
5.The terms and
conditions on which it is intended to dispose of the land, together with copies
of any real estate sales contract, conveyance, lease, assignment or other
instrument intended to be used, and any other information the owner or the
owner's agent or subdivider desires to present.
6.A map of the
subdivision that has been filed in the office of the county recorder in the
county in which the subdivision is located.
7.A brief but
comprehensive statement describing the land on and the locality in which the
subdivision is located.
8.A statement of the
provisions that have been made for permanent access and provisions, if any, for
health department approved sewage and solid waste collection and disposal and
public utilities in the proposed subdivision, including water, electricity, gas
and telephone facilities.
9.A statement as to the
location of the nearest public common and high schools available for the
attendance of school age pupils residing on the subdivision property.
10.A statement of the use
or uses for which the proposed subdivision will be offered.
11.A statement of the
provisions, if any, limiting the use or occupancy of the parcels in the
subdivision, together with copies of any restrictive covenants affecting all or
part of the subdivision.
12.The name and business
address of the principal broker selling or leasing, within this state, lots or
parcels in the subdivision.
13.A true statement of
the approximate amount of indebtedness that is a lien on the subdivision or any
part of the subdivision and that was incurred to pay for the construction of
any onsite or offsite improvement, or any community or
recreational facility.
14.A true statement or
reasonable estimate, if applicable, of the amount of any indebtedness that has
been or is proposed to be incurred by an existing or proposed special district,
entity, taxing area or assessment district, within the boundaries of which the
subdivision, or any part of the subdivision, is located, and that is to pay for
the construction or installation of any improvement or to furnish community or
recreational facilities to the subdivision, and which amounts are to be
obtained by ad valorem tax or assessment, or by a special assessment or tax upon on the subdivision or any part of the
subdivision.
15.A true statement as to
the approximate amount of annual taxes, special assessments or fees to be paid
by the buyer for the proposed annual maintenance of common facilities in the
subdivision.
16.A statement of the
provisions for easements for permanent access for irrigation water where
applicable.
17.A true statement of
assurances for the completion of offsite improvements, such as roads,
utilities, community or recreational facilities and other improvements to be
included in the offering or represented as being in the offering, and approval
of the offering by the political subdivision with authority. This statement
shall include a trust agreement or any other evidence of assurances for
delivery of the improvements and a statement of the provisions, if any, for the
continued maintenance of the improvements.
18.A true statement of
the nature of any improvements to be installed by the subdivider, the estimated
schedule for completion and the estimated costs related to the improvements
that will be borne by purchasers of lots in the subdivision.
19.A true statement of
the availability of sewage disposal facilities and other public utilities,
including water, electricity, gas and telephone facilities in the subdivision,
the estimated schedule for their installation, and the estimated costs related
to the facilities and utilities that will be borne by purchasers of lots in the
subdivision.
20.A true statement as to
whether all or any portion of the subdivision is located in an open range or
area in which livestock may roam at large under the laws of this state and what
provisions, if any, have been made for the fencing of the subdivision to
preclude livestock from roaming within the subdivided lands.
21.If the subdivider is a
subsidiary corporation, a true statement identifying the parent corporation and
any of the following in which the parent or any of its subsidiaries is or has
been involved within the past five years:
(a)Any subdivision in this state.
(b)Any subdivision, wherever located, for which
registration is required pursuant to the federal interstate land sales full
disclosure act.
(c)Any subdivision, wherever located, for which
registration would have been required pursuant to the federal interstate land
sales full disclosure act but for the exemption for subdivisions whose lots are
all twenty acres or more in size.
22.A true statement identifying all other
subdivisions, designated in paragraph 21 of this subsection, in which any of
the following is or, within the last five years, has been directly or
indirectly involved:
(a)The holder of any
ownership interest in the land.
(b)The subdivider.
(c)Any principal or
officer in the holder or subdivider.
23.A true statement as to
whether all or any portion of the subdivision is located in territory in the
vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in
section 288461, in territory in the vicinity of a public airport as
defined in section 288486, on or after July 1, 2001, in a high noise or
accident potential zone as defined in section 288461 or on or after July
1 of the year in which the subdivision becomes located in a high noise or
accident potential zone.The statement required pursuant to this
paragraph does not require the amendment or refiling of any notice filed before
July 1, 2001 or before July 1 of the year in which the subdivision becomes
located in a high noise or accident potential zone.
24.If the subdivision is
a conversion from multifamily rental to condominiums as defined in section 331202,
a true statement as to the following:
(a)That the property is a conversion from
multifamily rental to condominiums.
(b)The date original construction was completed.
25.Other information and documents and certifications
as the commissioner may reasonably require provided that the subdivider shall
not be required to disclose any critical infrastructure information as defined
in section 411801 or any information contained in a report issued
pursuant to section 414273.
B.The commissioner, on
application, may grant a subdivider of lots or parcels within a subdivision for
which a public report was previously issued by the commissioner an exemption
from all or part of the notification requirements of subsection A of this
section. The subdivider shall file a statement with the commissioner
indicating the change of ownership in the lots or parcels together with any
material changes occurring subsequent to the original approval of the
subdivision within which the lots or parcels are located.The
statement shall further refer to the original approval by the commissioner.
C.If the subdivision is
within an active management area, as defined in section 45402, the
subdivider shall accompany the notice with a certificate of assured water
supply issued by the director of water resources along with proof that all
applicable fees have been paid pursuant to sections 483772 and 483774.01,
unless the subdivider has obtained a written commitment of water service for
the subdivision from a city, town or private water company designated as having
an assured water supply by the director of water resources pursuant to section
45576 or is exempt from the requirement pursuant to section 45576.
If the subdivider has submitted a certificate of assured water supply to a
city, town or county prior to approval of the plat by the city, town or county
and this has been noted on the face of the plat, the submission constitutes
compliance with this subsection if the subdivider provides proof to the
commissioner that all applicable fees have been paid pursuant to sections 483772
and 483774.01.
D.It is unlawful for a
person or group of persons acting in concert to attempt to avoid this article
by acting in concert to divide a parcel of land or sell subdivision lots by
using a series of owners or conveyances or by any other method that ultimately
results in the division of the lands into a subdivision or the sale of
subdivided land.The plan or offering is subject to this article.Unlawful
acting in concert pursuant to this subsection with respect to the sale or lease
of subdivision lots requires proof that the real estate licensee or other
licensed professional knew or with the exercise of reasonable diligence should
have known that property which the licensee listed or for which the licensee
acted in any capacity as agent was subdivided land subject to this article. A
familial relationship alone is not sufficient to constitute unlawful acting in
concert.
E.A creation of six or
more lots, parcels or fractional interests in improved or unimproved land, lots
or parcels of any size is subject to this article except when:
1.Each of the lots,
parcels or fractional interests represents, on a partition basis, thirtysix
acres or more in area of land located in this state, including to the
centerline of dedicated roads or easements, if any, contiguous to the land in
which the interests are held.
2.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are the result of a foreclosure sale, the exercise by a trustee
under a deed of trust of a power of sale or the grant of a deed in lieu of
foreclosure. This paragraph does not allow circumvention of the requirements
of this article.
3.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are created by a valid order or decree of a court pursuant
to and through compliance with title 12, chapter 8, article 7 or by operation
of law.This paragraph does not allow circumvention of the
requirements of this article.
4.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests consist of interests in any oil, gas or mineral lease,
permit, claim or right therein and such interests are regulated as securities
by the United States or by this state.
5.The lots, parcels or
fractional interests are registered as securities under the laws of the United
States or the laws of this state or are exempt transactions under section 441844,
441845 or 441846.
6.The commissioner by
special order exempts offerings or dispositions of any lots, parcels or
fractional interests from compliance with this article on written petition and
on a showing satisfactory to the commissioner that compliance is not essential
to the public interest or for the protection of buyers.
7.A sale or lease of a
lot, parcel or fractional interest occurs ten or more years after the sale or
lease of another lot, parcel or fractional interest and the other lot, parcel
or fractional interest is not subject to this article and is treated as an
independent parcel unless, upon
on investigation by the
commissioner, there is evidence of intent to subdivide.
F.In areas outside of
active management areas established pursuant to title 45, chapter 2, article 2:
1.If the subdivision is located in a county that has adopted the
provision authorized by final
plat approval for a subdivision is subject to section 11823,
subsection A, or in a city or town that
has enacted an ordinance pursuant to section 9463.01,
subsection O J, the subdivider shall
accompany the notice with a report issued by the director of water resources
pursuant to section 45108 stating that the subdivision has an adequate
water supply, unless one of the following applies:
(a)The subdivider
submitted the report to a city, town or county before approval of the plat by
the city, town or county and this has been noted on the face of the plat.
(b)The subdivider has
obtained a written commitment of water service for the subdivision from a city,
town or private water company designated as having an adequate water supply by
the director of water resources pursuant to section 45108.
(c)The plat was approved
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K,
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 11823, subsection B,
paragraph 1, pursuant to an exemption granted by the director of water
resources under section 45108.02 and the exemption has not expired or
pursuant to an exemption granted by the director under section 45108.03.If
the plat was approved pursuant to an authorized exemption, the state real
estate commissioner shall require that all promotional material and contracts
for the sale of lots in the subdivision adequately display the following:
(i)The director of water
resources' report or the developer's brief summary of the report as approved by
the commissioner on
the proposed water supply for the subdivision.
(ii)A statement
describing the exemption under which the subdivision was approved, including
the specific conditions of the exemption that were met. If the plat was
approved by the legislative body of a city or town pursuant to an exemption
authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K or by the board of
supervisors of a county pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 11823,
subsection B, paragraph 1, the subdivider shall record the document required by section
33406.
(d)The subdivision
received final plat approval from the city, town or county before the
requirement for an adequate water supply became effective in the city, town or
county, and there have been no material changes to the plat since the final
plat approval. If changes were made to the plat after the final plat approval,
the director of water resources shall determine whether the changes are
material pursuant to the rules adopted by the director to implement section 45108.
If this subdivision applies, the state real estate commissioner shall require
that all promotional materials and contracts for the sale of lots in the
subdivision adequately display the director of water resources' report or the
developer's brief summary of the report as approved by the commissioner on the
proposed water supply for the subdivision.
2.If the subdivision is not located in a county that has adopted the
provision authorized by final
plat approval for a subdivision is not subject to section 11823,
subsection A or in a city or town that
has enacted an ordinance pursuant to section 9463.01,
subsection O J, and if the director of
water resources, pursuant to section 45108, reports an inadequate onsite
supply of water to meet the needs projected by the developer or if no water is
available, the state real estate commissioner shall require that all
promotional material and contracts for the sale of lots in subdivisions
approved by the commissioner adequately display the director of water
resources' report or the developer's brief summary of the report as approved by
the commissioner on the proposed water supply for the subdivision.
G.The commissioner may
require the subdivider to supplement the notice of intention to subdivide lands
and may require the filing of periodic reports to update the information
contained in the original notice of intention to subdivide lands.
H.The commissioner may
authorize the subdivider to file as the notice of intention to subdivide lands,
in lieu of some or all of the requirements of subsection A of this section, a
copy of the statement of record filed with respect to the subdivision pursuant
to the federal interstate land sales full disclosure act if the statement
complies with the requirements of the act and the regulations pertinent to the
act.
I.Neither a real estate
sales contract, conveyance, lease, assignment or other instrument to transfer
any interest in subdivided land nor any covenant or restriction affecting real
property shall contain any provision limiting the right of any party to appear
or testify in support of or opposition to zoning changes, building permits or
any other official acts affecting real property before a governmental body or
official considering zoning changes, building permits or any other official
acts affecting real property, whether the property is located within or outside
of the boundaries of the subdivision.All contractual provisions
that conflict with this subsection are declared to be contrary to public
policy. Nothing contained in this subsection shall prohibit private
restrictions on the use of any real property.
J.Before offering
subdivided lands for lease or sale, the subdivider who makes any promises
through any form of advertising media that the subdivided lands will be
exclusively a retirement community or one that is limited to the residency of
adults or senior citizens shall include the promises in the deed restrictions
affecting any interest in real property within the subdivided lands.
K.Except as otherwise
provided in this section, a subdivider shall not be required to disclose items
that are over one mile from the subdivision boundaries. The existence of
foreign nations or tribal lands shall also be disclosed if located within the
one mile radius of the subdivision boundaries. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 32-2183, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2183.Subdivision public reports; denial of issuance; unlawful
sales; voidable sale or lease; order prohibiting sale or lease; investigations;
hearings; summary orders
A.Upon On
examination of a subdivision, the commissioner, unless there are
grounds for denial, shall issue to the subdivider a public report authorizing
the sale or lease in this state of the lots, parcels or fractional interests
within the subdivision. The report shall contain the data obtained in
accordance with section 322181 and any other information which that
the commissioner determines is necessary to implement the
purposes of this article.If any of the lots, parcels or fractional
interests within the subdivision are located within territory in the vicinity
of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined in section 288461,
under a military training route as delineated in the military training route
map prepared pursuant to section 37102, under restricted air space as
delineated in the restricted air space map prepared pursuant to section 37102
or contained in the military electronics range as delineated in the military
electronics range map prepared pursuant to section 37102, the report
shall include, in bold twelve point font block letters on the first page of the
report, the statements required pursuant to section 288484, subsection
A, section 322183.05 or section 322183.06 and, if the department
has been provided a map prepared pursuant to section 288484, subsection
B or section 37102, the report shall include a copy of the
map.The military airport report requirements do not require the
amendment or reissuance of any public report issued on or before December 31,
2001 or on or before December 31 of the year in which the lots, parcels or
fractional interests within a subdivision become territory in the vicinity of a
military airport or ancillary military facility. The military training route
report requirements do not require the amendment or reissuance of any public
report issued on or before December 31, 2004. The restricted air space report
requirements do not require the amendment or reissuance of any public report
issued on or before December 31, 2006. The military electronics range report
requirements do not require the amendment or reissuance of any public report
issued on or before December 31, 2008. The commissioner shall require the
subdivider to reproduce the report, make the report available to each initial
prospective customer and furnish each initial buyer or lessee with a copy
before the buyer or lessee signs any offer to purchase or lease, taking a
receipt therefor.
B.This section shall does
not be construed to
require a public report issued sixty or fewer days prior to before the filing of the military electronics range map
prepared pursuant to section 37102 to meet the military electronics
range notification requirements of this section.
C.A public report issued
sixty-one or more days after the filing of the military electronics range map
prepared pursuant to section 37102 shall meet all of the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
D.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a subdivider may elect to prepare a final public
report for use in the sale of improved lots as defined in section 322101,
as follows:
1.The subdivider shall
prepare the public report and provide a copy of the report to the commissioner
with the submission of the notification required by sections 322181 and
322184 and shall comply with all other requirements of this article.
2.An initial filing fee
of five hundred dollars or an amended filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars
shall accompany the notification required by paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.The department shall
assign a registration number to each notification and public report submitted
pursuant to this subsection and shall maintain a database of all of these
submissions. The subdivider shall place the number on each public report.
4.On receipt of the
notification and public report, the department shall review and issue within
ten business days either a certification that the notification and public report
are administratively complete or a denial letter if it appears that the
application or project is not in compliance with all legal requirements, that
the applicant has a background of violations of state or federal law or that
the applicant or project presents an unnecessary risk of harm to the public.
If the commissioner has received the notification and public report but has not
issued a certification or a denial letter within ten business days pursuant to
this paragraph, the notification and public report are administratively
complete.
5.A subdivider may
commence sales or leasing activities as permitted under this article after
obtaining a certificate of administrative completeness from the commissioner.
6.Before or after the
commissioner issues a certificate of administrative completeness or, if
applicable, after the notification and public report are deemed to be
administratively complete pursuant to paragraph 4 of this subsection, the
department may examine any public report, subdivision or applicant that has
applied for or received the certificate. If the commissioner determines that
the subdivider or subdivision is not in compliance with any requirement of
state law or that grounds exist under this chapter to suspend, deny or revoke a
public report, the commissioner may commence an administrative action under
section 322154 or 322157. If the subdivider immediately corrects
the deficiency and comes into full compliance with state law, the commissioner
shall vacate any action that the commissioner may have commenced pursuant to
section 322154 or 322157.
7.The department shall
provide forms and guidelines for the submission of the notification and public
report pursuant to this section.
E.The commissioner may
suspend, revoke or deny issuance of a public report on any of the following
grounds:
1.Failure to comply with
this article or the rules of the commissioner pertaining to this article.
2.The sale or lease would
constitute misrepresentation to or deceit or fraud of the purchasers or lessees.
3.Inability to deliver
title or other interest contracted for.
4.Inability to
demonstrate that adequate financial or other arrangements acceptable to the
commissioner have been made for completion of all streets, sewers, electric,
gas and water utilities, drainage and flood control facilities, community and
recreational facilities and other improvements included in the offering.
5.Failure to make a
showing that the lots, parcels or fractional interests can be used for the
purpose for which they are offered.
6.The owner, agent,
subdivider, officer, director or partner, subdivider trust beneficiary holding
ten per cent percent or more direct or
indirect beneficial interest or, if a corporation, any stockholder owning ten per cent percent or more of the stock in the
corporation has:
(a)Been convicted of a
felony or misdemeanor involving fraud or dishonesty or involving conduct of any
business or a transaction in real estate, cemetery property, timeshare
intervals or membership camping campgrounds or contracts.
(b)Been permanently or
temporarily enjoined by order, judgment or decree from engaging in or
continuing any conduct or practice in connection with the sale or purchase of
real estate or cemetery property, timeshare intervals, membership
camping contracts or campgrounds, or securities or involving consumer fraud or
the racketeering laws of this state.
(c)Had an administrative
order entered against him by a real estate regulatory agency or security
regulatory agency.
(d)Had an adverse
decision or judgment entered against him involving fraud or dishonesty or
involving the conduct of any business or transaction in real estate, cemetery
property, timeshare intervals or membership camping campgrounds or
contracts.
(e)Disregarded or violated
this chapter or the rules of the commissioner pertaining to this chapter.
(f)Controlled an entity
to which subdivision (b), (c), (d) or (e) applies.
7.Procurement or an
attempt to procure a public report by fraud, misrepresentation or deceit or by
filing an application for a public report that is materially false or
misleading.
8.Failure of the
declaration for a condominium created pursuant to title 33, chapter 9, article
2 to comply with the requirements of section 331215 or failure of the
plat for the condominium to comply with the requirements of section 331219.
The commissioner may require an applicant for a public report to submit a
notarized statement signed by the subdivider or an engineer or attorney
licensed to practice in this state certifying that the condominium plat and
declaration of condominium are in compliance with the requirements of sections
331215 and 331219.If the notarized statement is
provided, the commissioner is entitled to rely on this statement.
9.Failure of any blanket
encumbrance or valid supplementary agreement executed by the holder of the
blanket encumbrance to contain provisions that enable the purchaser to acquire
title to a lot or parcel free of the lien of the blanket encumbrance, on
completion of all payments and performance of all of the terms and provisions
required to be made or performed by the purchaser under the real estate sales
contract by which the purchaser has acquired the lot or parcel. The subdivider
shall file copies of documents acceptable to the commissioner containing these
provisions with the commissioner before the sale of any subdivision lot or
parcel subject to a blanket encumbrance.
10.Failure to demonstrate
permanent access to the subdivision lots or parcels.
11.The use of the lots
presents an unreasonable health risk.
F.It is unlawful for a
subdivider to sell any lot in a subdivision unless one of the following occurs:
1.All proposed or
promised subdivision improvements are completed.
2.The completion of all
proposed or promised subdivision improvements is assured by financial
arrangements acceptable to the commissioner.The financial
arrangements may be made in phases for common community and recreation
facilities required by a municipality or county as a stipulation for approval
of a plan for a master planned community.
3.The municipal or county
government agrees to prohibit occupancy and the subdivider agrees not to close
escrow for lots in the subdivision until all proposed or promised subdivision
improvements are completed.
4.The municipal or county
government enters into an assurance agreement with any trustee not to convey
lots until improvements are completed within the portion of the subdivision
containing these lots, if the improvements can be used and maintained
separately from the improvements required for the entire subdivision plat. The
agreement shall be recorded in the county in which the subdivision is located.
G.If the subdivision is
within an active management area, as defined in section 45402, the
commissioner shall deny issuance of a public report or the use of any exemption
pursuant to section 322181.02, subsection B unless the subdivider has
been issued a certificate of assured water supply by the director of water
resources and has paid all applicable fees pursuant to sections 483772
and 483774.01, or unless the subdivider has obtained a written
commitment of water service for the subdivision from a city, town or private
water company designated as having an assured water supply by the director of
water resources pursuant to section 45576 or is exempt from the
requirement pursuant to section 45576.
H.In areas outside of
active management areas, if the subdivision
is located in a county that has adopted the provision authorized by
final plat approval for a subdivision
is subject to section 11823, subsection A or in a city or town that has enacted an ordinance
pursuant to section 9463.01, subsection O J,
the commissioner shall deny issuance of a public report or the use of any
exemption pursuant to section 322181.02, subsection B unless one of the
following applies:
1.The director of water
resources has reported pursuant to section 45108 that the subdivision
has an adequate water supply.
2.The subdivider has
obtained a written commitment of water service for the subdivision from a city,
town or private water company designated as having an adequate water supply by
the director of water resources pursuant to section 45108.
3.The plat was approved
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K,
pursuant to an exemption authorized by section 11823, subsection B,
paragraph 1, pursuant to an exemption granted by the director of water
resources under section 45108.02 and the exemption has not expired or
pursuant to an exemption granted by the director of water resources under
section 45108.03.
4.The subdivision
received final plat approval from the city, town or county before the
requirement for an adequate water supply became effective in the city, town or
county, and there have been no material changes to the plat since the final
plat approval.If changes were made to the plat after the final plat
approval, the director of water resources shall determine whether the changes
are material pursuant to the rules adopted by the director to implement section
45108.
I.A subdivider shall not
sell or lease or offer for sale or lease in this state any lots, parcels or
fractional interests in a subdivision without first obtaining a public report
from the commissioner except as provided in section 322181.01 or 322181.02,
and a certificate of administrative completeness issued pursuant to this
section.Unless exempt, the sale or lease of subdivided lands prior to before issuance of the public report or
failure to deliver the public report to the purchaser or lessee shall render
the sale or lease rescindable by the purchaser or lessee. An action by the
purchaser or lessee to rescind the transaction shall be brought within three
years of the date of execution of the purchase or lease agreement by the
purchaser or lessee.In any rescission action, the prevailing party
is entitled to reasonable attorney fees as determined by the court.
J.On a print
advertisement in a magazine or newspaper or on an internet advertisement that
advertises a specific lot or parcel of a subdivider, the subdivider shall
include a disclosure stating that "a public report is available on the
state real estate department's website".
K.Any applicant objecting
to the denial of a public report, within thirty days after receipt of the order
of denial, may file a written request for a hearing.The
commissioner shall hold the hearing within twenty days after receipt of the
request for a hearing unless the party requesting the hearing has requested a
postponement.If the hearing is not held within twenty days after a
request for a hearing is received, plus the period of any postponement, or if a
proposed decision is not rendered within fortyfive days after
submission, the order of denial shall be rescinded and a public report issued.
L.On the commissioner's
own motion, or when the commissioner has received a complaint and has
satisfactory evidence that the subdivider or the subdivider's agent is
violating this article or the rules of the commissioner or has engaged in any
unlawful practice as defined in section 441522 with respect to the sale
of subdivided lands or deviated from the provisions of the public report, the
commissioner may investigate the subdivision project and examine the books and
records of the subdivider.For the purpose of examination, the
subdivider shall keep and maintain records of all sales transactions and funds
received by the subdivider pursuant to the sales transactions and shall make
them accessible to the commissioner upon
on reasonable notice and
demand.
M.On the commissioner's
own motion, or when the commissioner has received a complaint and has
satisfactory evidence that any person has violated this article or the rules of
the commissioner or has engaged in any unlawful practice as defined in section
441522 with respect to the sale of subdivided lands or deviated from the
provisions of the public report or special order of exemption, or has been
indicted for fraud or against whom an information for fraud has been filed or
has been convicted of a felony, before or after the commissioner issues the
public report as provided in subsection A of this section, the commissioner may
conduct an investigation of the matter, issue a summary order as provided in
section 322157, or provide notice and hold a public hearing and, after
the hearing, may issue the order or orders the commissioner deems necessary to
protect the public interest and ensure compliance with the law, rules or public
report or the commissioner may bring action in any court of competent
jurisdiction against the person to enjoin the person from continuing the
violation or engaging in or doing any act or acts in furtherance of the
violation.The court may make orders or judgments, including the
appointment of a receiver, necessary to prevent the use or employment by a
person of any unlawful practices, or which may be necessary to restore to any
person in interest any monies or property, real or personal, that may have been
acquired by means of any practice in this article declared to be unlawful.
N.When it appears to the
commissioner that a person has engaged in or is engaging in a practice declared
to be unlawful by this article and that the person is concealing assets or self
or has made arrangements to conceal assets or is about to leave the state, the
commissioner may apply to the superior court, ex parte, for an order appointing
a receiver of the assets of the person or for a writ of ne exeat, or both.
O.The court, on receipt of an application for the
appointment of a receiver or for a writ of ne exeat, or both, shall examine the
verified application of the commissioner and other evidence that the
commissioner may present the court. If satisfied that the interests of the
public require the appointment of a receiver or the issuance of a writ of ne
exeat without notice, the court shall issue an order appointing the receiver or
issue the writ, or both. If the court determines that the interests of the
public will not be harmed by the giving of notice, the court shall set a time
for a hearing and require notice be given as the court deems satisfactory.
P.If the court appoints a receiver without notice,
the court shall further direct that a copy of the order appointing a receiver
be served on the person engaged in or engaging in a practice declared to be
unlawful under this article by delivering the order to the last address of the
person that is on file with the state real estate department.The
order shall inform the person that the person has the right to request a
hearing within ten days of the date of the order and, if requested, the hearing
shall be held within thirty days from the date of the order. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
32-2197.08, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2197.08.Issuance of public report and amended public report by
commissioner on timeshare plan; denial of issuance; additional information; use
of another state's public report
A.On examination of a timeshare plan, the
commissioner, unless there are grounds for denial, shall approve for use by the
developer a public report authorizing the sale or lease of the timeshare
interests within the timeshare plan.For all timeshare interests
sold in this state, the commissioner shall require the developer to reproduce
the public report and furnish each prospective customer with a copy, taking a
receipt for each copy.The public report shall be made available to
each prospective purchaser in written format and may also be made available in
CDROM or other electronic format as approved by the commissioner. The
public report shall include the following:
1.The name and principal address of the owner and
developer.
2.A description of the type of timeshare interests
being offered.
3.A description of the existing and proposed
accommodations and amenities of the timeshare plan, including type and number,
any use restrictions and any required fees for use.
4.A description of any accommodations and amenities
that are committed to be built, including:
(a)The developer's schedule of commencement and
completion of all accommodations and amenities.
(b)The estimated number of accommodations per site
that may become subject to the timeshare plan.
5.A brief description of the duration, phases and
operation of the timeshare plan.
6.The current annual budget if available or the
projected annual budget for the timeshare plan. The budget shall include:
(a)A statement of the amount or a statement that
there is no amount included in the budget as a reserve for repairs and
replacement.
(b)The projected common expense liability, if any,
by category of expenditures for the timeshare plan.
(c)A statement of any services or expenses that are
not reflected in the budget and that the developer provides or pays.
7.A description of any liens, defects or
encumbrances on or affecting the title to the timeshare interests.
8.A statement that by midnight of the seventh
calendar day after execution of the purchase agreement a purchaser may cancel
any purchase agreement for a timeshare interest from a developer together with
a statement providing the name and street address where the purchaser should
mail any notice of cancellation. However, if, by agreement of the parties
through the purchase agreement, the purchase agreement allows for cancellation
of the purchase agreement for a period of time exceeding seven calendar days,
the public report shall include a statement that the cancellation of the
purchase agreement is allowed for that period of time exceeding seven calendar
days.
9.A description of any bankruptcies, pending suits,
adjudications or disciplinary actions material to the timeshare interests of
which the developer has knowledge.
10.Any restrictions on alienation of any number or
portion of any timeshare interests.
11.Any current or expected fees or charges to be
paid by timeshare purchasers for the use of any amenities related to the
timeshare plan.
12.The extent to which financial arrangements have
been provided for completion of all promised improvements.
13.If the timeshare plan provides purchasers with
the opportunity to participate in any exchange programs, a description of the
name and address of the exchange companies and the method by which a purchaser
accesses the exchange programs.
14.Any other information that the developer, with
the approval of the commissioner, desires to include in the public report.
15.If the developer is offering a multisite
timeshare plan, the following information, which may be disclosed in a written,
graphic or tabular form:
(a)A description of each component site, including
the name and address of each component site.
(b)The number of accommodations and timeshare
periods, expressed in periods of use availability, committed to the multisite
timeshare plan and available for use by purchasers.
(c)Each type of accommodation in terms of the
number of bedrooms, bathrooms and sleeping capacity and a statement of whether
or not the accommodation contains a full kitchen. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "full kitchen" means a kitchen having a minimum of a
dishwasher, range, oven, sink and refrigerator.
(d)A description of amenities available for use by
the purchaser at each component site.
(e)A description of the reservation system,
including the following:
(i)The entity responsible for operating the
reservation system.
(ii)A summary of the rules governing access to and
use of the reservation system.
(iii)The existence of and an explanation regarding
any priority reservation features that affect a purchaser's ability to make
reservations for the use of a given accommodation on a first reserved, first
served basis.
(f)A description of any right to make any
additions, substitutions or deletions of accommodations or amenities and a
description of the basis on which accommodations and amenities may be added to,
substituted in or deleted from the multisite timeshare plan.
(g)A description of the purchaser's liability for
any fees associated with the multisite timeshare plan.
(h)The location and the anticipated relative use
demand of each component site in a multisite timeshare plan as well as any
periodic adjustment or amendment to the reservation system that may be needed
in order to respond to actual purchaser use patterns and changes in purchaser
use demand for the accommodations existing at the time within the multisite
timeshare plan.
(i)Any other information reasonably required by the
commissioner or established by rule necessary for the protection of purchasers
of timeshare interests in timeshare plans.
(j)Any other information that the developer, with
the approval of the commissioner, desires to include in the public report.
16.If a developer offers a nonspecific timeshare
interest in a multisite timeshare plan, the information set forth in paragraphs
1 through 14 of this subsection as to each component site.
17.Any other information that the commissioner
determines or establishes by rule is necessary to implement the purpose of this
article.
B.Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
the requirements prescribed by subsection A of this section apply to a
developer's application for approval to use an amended public report for the
sale of timeshare interests in a timeshare plan, including an amended public
report to disclose and address a material change under section 322197.04.A
developer may elect to prepare an amended public report for use in the sale of
timeshare interests as follows:
1.The developer shall prepare the amended public
report and provide a copy of the report to the commissioner with the submission
of the application for an amended public report, including any notification
required by section 322197.04, and shall comply with all other requirements
of this article.
2.An amendment filing fee established pursuant to
section 322197.07 shall accompany the application prescribed by
paragraph 1 of this subsection.
3.On receipt of the application and amended public
report, the department shall review and, within fifteen business days if the
amendment adds less than six new component sites to the timeshare plan or
within thirty calendar days if the amendment adds six or more new component
sites to the timeshare plan, issue either a certification that the application
and amended public report are administratively complete or a denial letter if
it appears that the application, amended public report or timeshare plan is not
in compliance with all legal requirements, that the applicant has a background
of violations of state or federal law or that the applicant or timeshare plan
presents an unnecessary risk of harm to the public. If the commissioner has
received the application and amended public report but has not issued a
certification or a denial letter within the required time period, the
application and amended public report are deemed administratively complete.
4.The developer may commence sales or leasing
activities as permitted under this article using an amended public report when
the commissioner issues a certification of administrative completeness or as of
the date the application and amended public report are deemed administratively
complete pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection. The certification may be
issued on paper or electronically.
5.Before or after the commissioner issues a
certification of administrative completeness or, if applicable, after the
application and amended public report are deemed to be administratively
complete pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection, the department may examine
any public report, timeshare plan or applicant that has applied for or received
the certification.If the commissioner determines that the public
report, timeshare plan or applicant is not in compliance with any requirement
of state law or that grounds exist under this chapter to suspend, deny or
revoke a public report, the commissioner may commence an administrative action
under section 322154, 322157 or 322197.14.If
the developer immediately corrects the deficiency and fully complies with state
law, the commissioner shall promptly vacate any action that the commissioner
may have commenced pursuant to section 322154, 322157 or 322197.14.
6.The department shall provide forms and guidelines
for the submission of the application and amended public report pursuant to
this subsection.
C.In the event of denial, suspension or revocation,
grounds shall be set forth in writing at the time of denial, suspension or
revocation.The commissioner may deny, suspend or revoke the public
report on any of the following grounds:
1.Failure to comply with this article or the rules
of the commissioner pertaining to this article.
2.The sale or lease would constitute
misrepresentation to or deceit or fraud of the purchasers or lessees.
3.Inability to demonstrate that adequate financial
or other arrangements acceptable to the commissioner have been made for
completion of the timeshare property, installation of all streets, sewers,
electric, gas and water utilities, drainage, flood control and other similar
improvements included in the offering.
4.The developer, including if an entity, an
officer, director, member, manager, partner, owner, trust beneficiary holding
ten per cent percent or more beneficial
interest, stockholder owning ten per cent
percent or more of the
stock or other person exercising control of the entity, has:
(a)Been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving theft, fraud or dishonesty or involving the conduct of any business
or a transaction in real estate, cemetery property, timeshare interests or
membership camping campgrounds or contracts.
(b)Been permanently or temporarily enjoined by
order, judgment or decree from engaging in or continuing any conduct or
practice in connection with the sale or purchase of real estate, cemetery
property, timeshare interests, membership camping campgrounds or contracts, or
securities or involving consumer fraud or the Arizona racketeering laws of this state.
(c)Had an administrative order entered against him
by a real estate regulatory agency or securities regulatory agency.
(d)Had an adverse decision or judgment entered
against him involving fraud or dishonesty or involving the conduct of any
business in or a transaction in real estate, cemetery property, timeshare
interests or membership camping campgrounds or contracts.
(e)Disregarded or violated this chapter or the
rules of the commissioner pertaining to this chapter.
(f)Participated in, operated or held an interest in
any entity to which subdivision (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this paragraph
applies.
5.If within this state, the timeshare property is
incompatible with the existing neighborhood and would introduce into a
neighborhood a character of property or use that would clearly be detrimental
to property values in that neighborhood.
D.If the timeshare property is within an active
management area, as defined in section 45402, the commissioner shall
deny issuance of a public report unless the developer has been issued a
certificate of assured water supply by the director of water resources and has
paid all applicable fees pursuant to sections 483772 and 483774.01,
or unless the developer has obtained a written commitment of water service for
the timeshare property from a city, town or private water company designated as
having an assured water supply by the director of water resources pursuant to
section 45576.
E.In areas outside of active management areas, if
the timeshare property is located in a
county that has adopted the provision authorized by subject to section 11823,
subsection A or in a city or town that
has enacted an ordinance pursuant to section 9463.01,
subsection O J, the commissioner shall deny
issuance of a public report unless one of the following applies:
1.The director of water resources has reported
pursuant to section 45108 that the timeshare property has an adequate
water supply.
2.The developer has obtained a written commitment
of water service for the timeshare property from a city, town or private water
company designated as having an adequate water supply by the director of water
resources pursuant to section 45108.
3.The timeshare property was approved pursuant to
an exemption authorized by section 9463.01, subsection K, pursuant to an
exemption authorized by section 11823, subsection B, paragraph 1,
pursuant to an exemption granted by the director of water resources under
section 45108.02 and the exemption has not expired or pursuant to an
exemption granted by the director of water resources under section 45108.03.
4.The subdivision received final plat approval from
the city, town or county before the requirement for an adequate water supply
became effective in the city, town or county, and there have been no material
changes to the plat since the final plat approval. If changes were made to the
plat after the final plat approval, the director of water resources shall
determine whether the changes are material pursuant to the rules adopted by the
director to implement section 45108.
F.In addition to providing to each prospective
customer a copy of the public report as required in subsection A of this
section, the developer shall also provide to each customer before the close of
any transaction information and materials that identify any timeshare exchange
companies currently under contract and disclosure statements regarding the use
of the timeshare exchange companies, as well as any additional information the
commissioner deems appropriate.
G.The commissioner may authorize for use in this
state by a developer of a timeshare plan in which all accommodations are
located outside of this state a current public report that is issued by another
jurisdiction or an equivalent registration and disclosure document that is
required before offering a timeshare plan for sale, lease or use and that is
issued by another jurisdiction. This authorization does not constitute an
exemption from other applicable requirements of this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 45-108, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-108.Evaluation of subdivision water supply; definition
A.In areas outside of active management areas
established pursuant to chapter 2, article 2 of this title, the developer of a
proposed subdivision including dry lot subdivisions, regardless of subdivided
lot size, prior to before recordation of the plat,
shall submit plans for the water supply for the subdivision and demonstrate the
adequacy of the water supply to meet the needs projected by the developer to
the director.The director shall evaluate the plans and issue a
report on the plans. 
B.The director shall evaluate the proposed source
of water for the subdivision to determine whether there is an adequate water
supply for the subdivision, and shall forward a copy of the director's report
to the state real estate commissioner and the city, town or county responsible
for platting the subdivision.
C.The director may designate cities, towns and
private water companies as having an adequate water supply by reporting that
designation to the water department of the city or town or private water
company and the state real estate commissioner.
D.As an alternative to designation under subsection
C of this section, the director may designate a city or town that has entered
into a contract with the United States secretary of the interior or a county
water authority established pursuant to chapter 13 of this title for permanent
supplies of Colorado river water for municipal and industrial use as having an
adequate water supply if all of the following apply:
1.The city or town has entered into a contract with
each private water company that serves water within the city or town to provide
Colorado river water to those private water companies.
2.The Colorado river water for which the city or
town has contracted is sufficient together with other water supplies available
to the city or town and the private water companies that serve water within
that city or town to provide an adequate supply of water for the city or town.
3.The director finds that new subdivisions within
the city or town will be served primarily with Colorado river water by the city
or town or one of the private water companies that serve water within that city
or town.
E.The director shall not require a developer to
submit plans for the water supply pursuant to subsection A of this section if
either:
1.Both of the following apply:
(a)The developer has obtained a written commitment
of water service from cities, towns or private water companies that have been
designated as having an adequate water supply.
(b)That city, town or private water company has
been designated as having an adequate water supply pursuant to subsection C of
this section.
2.All of the following apply:
(a)The city or town has been designated as having
an adequate water supply pursuant to subsection D of this section.
(b)The developer has obtained a written commitment
of water service from the city or town or a private water company that serves
water within that city or town.
(c)The developer has obtained the written
concurrence of the city or town that has been designated.
F.The director may revoke a designation made
pursuant to this section when the director finds that the water supply may
become inadequate.
G.The state of Arizona and the director or
department shall not be liable for any report, designation or evaluation
prepared in good faith pursuant to this section.
H.If the
director receives written notice from the board of supervisors of a county that
it has adopted the provision authorized by section 11823, subsection A,
the director shall give written notice of the provision to the mayors of all
cities and towns in the county. A city or town that receives the notice shall
comply with section 9463.01, subsections J, K, L, M and N.
I.H.For the purposes
of this section, "adequate water supply" means both of the following:
1.Sufficient groundwater, surface water or effluent
of adequate quality will be continuously, legally and physically available to
satisfy the water needs of the proposed use for at least one hundred years.
2.The financial capability has been demonstrated to
construct the water facilities necessary to make the supply of water available
for the proposed use, including a delivery system and any storage facilities or
treatment works.The director may accept evidence of the
construction assurances required by section 9463.01, 11823 or 322181
to satisfy this requirement. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 45-108.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-108.01.Application for water report or designation of adequate
water supply; notice; objections; hearing; appeals
A.On receipt of an application for a water report
or an application by a city, town or private water company to be designated as
having an adequate water supply under section 45108, if the proposed use is in a county that has adopted
the provision authorized by final plat approval for a subdivision is subject to section
11-823, subsection A or in a city or town
that has enacted an ordinance pursuant to section 9463.01,
subsection O J, the director shall publish notice
of the application once each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the groundwater basin in which the applicant proposes to
use water. The first publication shall occur within fifteen days after the
application is determined or deemed to be administratively
complete.If the application is substantially modified after notice
of the application is given pursuant to this subsection, the director shall
give notice of the application as modified in the manner prescribed by this
subsection.The first publication of any subsequent notice shall
occur within fifteen days after the modified application is determined or
deemed to be administratively complete.
B.Notice pursuant to subsection A of this section
shall state that written objections to the application may be filed with the
director by residents and landowners within the groundwater basin within
fifteen days after the last publication of notice. An objection shall state
the name and mailing address of the objector and be signed by the objector, the
objector's agent or the objector's attorney. The grounds for objection are
limited to whether the application meets the criteria for determining an
adequate water supply set forth
as defined in section 45108, subsection I. The objection
shall clearly set forth reasons why the application does not meet the criteria.
C.In appropriate cases, including cases in which a
proper written objection to the application has been filed, an administrative
hearing may be held before the director's decision on the application if the
director deems a hearing necessary.Thirty days before the date of
the hearing, the director shall give notice of the hearing to the applicant and
to any person who filed a proper written objection to the application. The
hearing shall be scheduled for at least sixty days but not more than ninety
days after the expiration of the time in which to file objections.
D.If the application is for a water report:
1.If the director determines that an adequate water
supply exists for the proposed use, the director shall issue a water report
stating that the water supply for the subdivision is adequate.
2.If the director determines that an adequate water
supply does not exist, the director shall issue a water report stating that the
water supply for the subdivision is inadequate.
E.If the application is for a designation of
adequate water supply:
1.If the director determines that an adequate water
supply exists for the proposed use, the director shall approve the application.
2.If the director determines that an adequate water
supply does not exist, the director shall deny the application.
F.The applicant or a person who contested the
application by filing a proper objection pursuant to subsection B of this
section may seek judicial review of the final decision of the director as
provided in section 45114, subsection B in the superior court.
G.Section 45114, subsections A and B govern
administrative proceedings, rehearings or reviews and judicial reviews of final
decisions of the director under this section. If an administrative hearing is
held, it shall be conducted in the groundwater basin in which the use is
located. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 45-108.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-108.02.Exemption from adequate water supply requirements for
city, town or county based on substantial capital investment; application;
criteria; expiration
A.If the director determines pursuant to section 45108
that an adequate water supply does not exist for a proposed subdivision and the
proposed subdivision is located in a city, town or county that requires a
determination of adequate water supply by the director as a condition of
approval of the plat pursuant to section 9463.01, subsection J or O or section 11823,
subsection A, the subdivider may apply to the director for an exemption from
the water adequacy requirement pursuant to this section on a form prescribed by
the director within one year after the requirement first becomes effective.
The director shall grant the exemption if the subdivider demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the director that all of the following apply:
1.The subdivider has made substantial capital
investment toward the construction of the proposed subdivision before the date
the water adequacy requirement first became effective. For the purposes of
this paragraph, substantial capital investment may include construction costs,
site preparation costs, construction of off-site improvements and conversion or
remodeling costs for existing structures, as well as planning and design costs
associated with those items, but does not include the original cost of acquiring
the property.
2.The subdivider was not aware of the proposed
water adequacy requirement at the time the investment was made.
3.The proposed subdivision complied in all other
respects with existing state laws as of the date the water adequacy requirement
became effective.
B.If the director grants an exemption pursuant to
subsection A of this section:
1.The exemption expires five years after the date
the exemption is granted, unless before that date at least one parcel in the
subdivision is sold to a bona fide purchaser or the director extends the
exemption pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection.
2.The director may extend the period of the
exemption for no more than two successive five-year periods if the subdivider
applies for an extension before the exemption expires and demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the director that the subdivider has made material progress in
developing the subdivision, but that sales of parcels in the subdivision have
been delayed for reasons outside the control of the subdivider.
C.If an exemption granted under this section
expires, any public report issued for the subdivision by the state real estate
commissioner pursuant to section 322183 expires and the subdivider shall
not sell any lots in the subdivision unless both of the following apply:
1.The subdivider files with the state real estate
commissioner a new notice of intention to subdivide lands pursuant to section
322181 and complies with section 322181, subsection F.
2.The state real estate commissioner issues a new
public report for the subdivision pursuant to section 322183.
D.Section 45114, subsections A and B govern
administrative proceedings, rehearing or review and judicial review of final
decisions of the director under this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 45-108.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-108.03.Exemption from adequate water supply requirements for
city, town or county based on an adequate water supply within twenty years;
criteria; application
A.If a proposed subdivision is located in a city,
town or county that requires an adequate water supply determination by the
director as a condition of approval of the plat pursuant to section 9463.01,
subsection J or O or
section 11823, subsection A, the subdivider may apply to the director
for an exemption from the requirement pursuant to this section on a form
prescribed by the director. The director shall grant the exemption if the
subdivider demonstrates to the satisfaction of the director that the
subdivision will be served by a water supply project to which both of the
following apply:
1.The subdivider has demonstrated financial
capability pursuant to section 45108, subsection I H,
but the water supply project will not be capable of serving the subdivision
with sufficient water to meet its demands in a timely manner because of one of
the following:
(a)The physical works for delivering water to the
subdivision are not complete but are under construction and will be completed
within twenty years.
(b)The subdivision will be served Colorado river
water by a water provider that does not currently have the legal right to serve
the water to the subdivision, but the water provider has an existing permanent
contract for the Colorado river water and will have the legal right to serve
the water to the subdivision within twenty years.
2.The subdivision will have an adequate water
supply when the construction of the physical works is completed or the water
supply is legally available to serve the subdivision, whichever applies, and
the interim water supply that will serve the subdivision meets all of the
criteria for an adequate water supply under section 45108 except that
the interim water supply will not be available for one hundred years.
B.Section 45114, subsections A and B govern
administrative proceedings, rehearing or review and judicial review of final
decisions of the director under this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 48-6414, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE48-6414.Inapplicability of other adequate water supply provisions
to proposed subdivisions in the district
Section 9463.01, subsections J through Q, section 11823,
section 322181, subsection F, section 322183, subsection H,
section 322197.08, subsection E, section
45108, subsection H, section 45108.01, section 45108.02
and section 45108.03 do not apply to proposed subdivisions in the
district. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Applicability; county, city and town water adequacy
ordinances 
A.This act applies to any city or town that
received a notice from the director of water resources before the effective
date of this act that the county in which the city or town is located enacted
an adequate water supply ordinance affecting the city or town, and those cities
and towns are no longer bound by that county's adequate water supply ordinance.
B.This act does not apply to any city or town that
adopts its own adequate water supply ordinance pursuant to section 9-463.01,
subsection O, Arizona Revised Statutes, before, on or after the effective date
of this act.

