







REFERENCE TITLE: paternity; preliminary injunction







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1297









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs: Burges





AN ACT

amending title
25, chapter 6, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 25808;
relating to domestic relations orders.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 25, chapter 6, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 25-808, to read:
START_STATUTE25-808.Preliminary injunction; temporary restraining order;
effect
A.In an
action to establish paternity or legal decision-making and parenting time for a
child who is born out of wedlock, the clerk of the court shall issue, pursuant
to an order of the superior court, a preliminary injunction that is directed to
each party to the action if the petitioner has filed one of the following:
1.a copy of
the birth certificate that lists the father as parent.
2.an
affidavit or acknowledgement signed by the father admitting paternity.
3.an
adoption order listing both parties as parents.
b.the
preliminary injunction shall contain the following orders:
1.That both
parties are enjoined from all of the following:
(a)Molesting, harassing, disturbing
the peace of or committing an assault or battery on the person of the other
party or any natural or adopted child of the parties.
(b)removing any natural or adopted
child of the parties then residing in this state from the jurisdiction of the
court without the prior written consent of the parties or the permission of the
court.
(c)Removing or causing to be
removed any child of the parties from any existing insurance coverage,
including medical, hospital, dental, automobile or disability insurance.
2.That both
parties maintain all insurance coverage in full force and EFFECT.
c.The
preliminary injunction prescribed in subsection a of this section shall include
the following statement:
Warning
This is an official
court order. If you disobey this order the court may find you in contempt of
court. You may also be arrested and prosecuted for the crime of interfering
with judicial proceedings and any other crime you may have committed in
disobeying this order. You or the other party may file a certified copy of
this order with your local law enforcement agency. A certified copy may be
obtained from the clerk of the court that issued this order. If you are the person
who brought this action, you must also file evidence with the law enforcement
agency that this order was served on the other party. This court order is
effective until a final order of paternity, legal decision-making or parenting
time is filed or the action is dismissed.
d.The preliminary injunction is effective
against the petitioner when the petition is filed and against the respondent on
service of a copy of the order or on actual notice of the order, whichever is
sooner. If service is by registered mail under the Arizona rules of family law
procedure, the order is effective on receipt of the order. The order remains
effective until further order of the court or the entry of paternity, legal
decision-making or parenting time.
e.At the
time of filing the petition for paternity, legal decisionmaking or
parenting time, the copies of the preliminary injunction shall be issued to the
petitioner or the agent, servant or employee filing the petition for paternity,
legal decision-making or parenting time.The petitioner is deemed to
have accepted service of the petitioner's copy of the preliminary injunction
and to have actual notice of its contents by filing or causing to be filed a
petition for paternity, legal decision-making or parenting time.The
petitioner shall cause a copy of the preliminary injunction to be served on the
respondent with a copy of the summons and petition for paternity, legal
decision-making or parenting time.
f.The
preliminary injunction has the force and effect of an order of the superior
court signed by a judge and is enforceable by all remedies made available by
law, including contempt of court.
g.The court
may issue a temporary restraining order without requiring notice to the other
party only if it finds on the basis of the moving affidavit or other evidence
that irreparable injury will result to the moving party if no order is issued
until the time for responding has elapsed.A bond is not required
unless the court deems it appropriate.
h.A
temporary order or preliminary injunction:
1.Does not
prejudice the rights of the parties or of any child that are to be adjudicated
at the subsequent hearings in the proceeding.
2.May be
revoked or modified before the final decree on a showing by affidavit of the
facts necessary for revocation or modification of a final decree.
3.Terminates
when the final order is entered or when the petition is dismissed.
i.A person
who disobeys or resists a preliminary injunction in violation of subsection b,
paragraph 1 of this section is subject to arrest and prosecution for
interference with judicial proceedings pursuant to section 13-2810 and the
following procedures apply:
1.Any party
may cause a certified copy of the injunction and return of service on the other
party to be registered with the sheriff having jurisdiction of the area in
which the party resides. The party originally registering the injunction shall
register any changes or modifications of the injunction with the sheriff. For
enforcement by arrest and prosecution for interference with judicial
proceedings, a certified copy of the injunction, whether or not registered with
the sheriff, is presumed to be a valid existing order of the court until a
final order is entered or the action is dismissed.
2.A peace officer,
with or without a warrant, may arrest a person if the peace officer has
probable cause to believe that an offense under this subsection has been
committed and has probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has
committed the offense, whether the offense is a felony or a misdemeanor and
whether the offense was committed within or without the presence of the peace
officer. The release procedures available under section 13-3883, subsection A,
paragraph 4 and section 13-3903 are not applicable to arrests made pursuant to
this paragraph.
3.A peace
officer making an arrest pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection is not
civilly or criminally liable for the arrest if the officer acts on probable
cause and without malice.
4.A person
arrested pursuant to paragraph 2 of this subsection may be released from
custody in accordance with the Arizona rules of criminal procedure or other
applicable statute. An order for release, with or without an appearance bond,
shall include pretrial release conditions necessary to provide for the
protection of the alleged victim and other specifically designated persons and
may provide additional conditions that the court deems appropriate, including
participation in any counseling programs available to the defendant.
5.The
remedies provided in this subsection for enforcement of the preliminary
injunction are in addition to any other civil or criminal remedies available,
including civil contempt of court. The use of one remedy does not prevent the
simultaneous or subsequent use of any other remedy. END_STATUTE

