







REFERENCE TITLE: consideration of property rights; zoning







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1235









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D: Lesko; Representatives Kern, Lawrence, Livingston, Mitchell, Olson,
  Petersen





AN ACT

Amending sections
9462.01 and 11811, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to zoning.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-462.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-462.01.Zoning regulations; public hearing; definitions
A.Pursuant to this article, the legislative body of
any municipality by ordinance may in order to conserve and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare:
1.Regulate the use of buildings, structures and
land as between agriculture, residence, industry, business and other purposes.
2.Regulate signs and billboards.
3.Regulate the location, height, bulk, number of
stories and size of buildings and structures, the size and use of lots, yards,
courts and other open spaces, the percentage of a lot that may be occupied by a
building or structure, access to incident solar energy and the intensity of
land use.
4.Establish requirements for offstreet
parking and loading.
5.Establish and maintain building setback lines.
6.Create civic districts around civic centers,
public parks, public buildings or public grounds and establish regulations
therefor.
7.Require as a condition of rezoning public
dedication of rightsofway as streets, alleys, public ways,
drainage and public utilities as are reasonably required by or related to the
effect of the rezoning.
8.Establish floodplain zoning districts and
regulations to protect life and property from the hazards of periodic
inundation.Regulations may include variable lot sizes, special
grading or drainage requirements, or other requirements deemed necessary for
the public health, safety or general welfare.
9.Establish special zoning districts or regulations
for certain lands characterized by adverse topography, adverse soils,
subsidence of the earth, high water table, lack of water or other natural or
manmade hazards to life or property. Regulations may include variable
lot sizes, special grading or drainage requirements, or other requirements
deemed necessary for the public health, safety or general welfare.
10.Establish districts of historical significance
provided that:
(a)The ordinances may require that special
permission be obtained for any development within the district if the
legislative body has adopted a plan for the preservation of districts of
historical significance that meets the requirements of subdivision (b) of this
paragraph, and the criteria contained in the ordinance are consistent with the
objectives set forth in the plan.
(b)A plan for the preservation of districts of
historical significance shall identify districts of special historical
significance, state the objectives to be sought concerning the development or
preservation of sites, area and structures within the district, and formulate a
program for public action including the provision of public facilities and the
regulation of private development and demolition necessary to realize these
objectives.
(c)The ordinance establishing districts of
historical significance shall set forth standards necessary to preserve the
historical character of the area so designated.
(d)The ordinances may designate or authorize any
committee, commission, department or person to designate structures or sites of
special historical significance in accordance with criteria contained in the
ordinance, and no designation shall be made except after a public hearing on
notice of the owners of record of the property designated of special historical
significance.The ordinances may require that special permission be
obtained for any development respecting the structures or sites.
11.Establish agespecific community zoning
districts in which residency is restricted to a head of a household or spouse
who must be of a specific age or older and in which minors are prohibited from
living in the home. Agespecific community zoning districts shall not be
overlaid over property without the permission of all owners of property
included as part of the district unless all of the property in the district has
been developed, advertised and sold or rented under specific age
restrictions.The establishment of agespecific community
zoning districts is subject to all of the public notice requirements and other
procedures prescribed by this article.
12.Establish procedures, methods and standards for
the transfer of development rights within its jurisdiction.Any
proposed transfer of development rights from the sending property or to the
receiving property shall be subject to the notice and hearing requirements of
section 9462.04 and shall be subject to the approval and consent of the
property owners of both the sending and receiving property. Before any transfer
of development rights, a municipality shall adopt an ordinance providing for:
(a)The issuance and recordation of the instruments
necessary to sever development rights from the sending property and to affix
development rights to the receiving property.These instruments
shall be executed by the affected property owners and lienholders.
(b)The preservation of the character of the sending
property and assurance that the prohibitions against the use and development of
the sending property shall bind the landowner and every successor in interest
to the landowner.
(c)The severance of transferable development rights
from the sending property and the delayed transfer of development rights to a
receiving property.
(d)The purchase, sale, exchange or other conveyance
of transferable development rights prior to the rights being affixed to a
receiving property.
(e)A system for monitoring the severance,
ownership, assignment and transfer of transferable development rights.
(f)The right of a municipality to purchase
development rights and to hold them for resale.
(g)The right of a municipality at its discretion to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with another municipality or a county
for the transfer of development rights between jurisdictions.The
transfer shall comply with this paragraph, except that if the sending property
is located in an unincorporated area of a county, the approval of the
development rights to be sent to a municipality shall comply with section
11-817.
B.For the purposes of subsection A of this section,
the legislative body may divide a municipality, or portion of a municipality,
into zones of the number, shape and area it deems best suited to carry out the
purpose of this article and articles 6, 6.2 and 6.3 of this chapter.
C.All zoning regulations shall be uniform for each
class or kind of building or use of land throughout each zone, but the
regulations in one type of zone may differ from those in other types of zones
as follows:
1.Within individual zones, there may be uses
permitted on a conditional basis under which additional requirements must be
met, including requiring site plan review and approval by the planning agency.
The conditional uses are generally characterized by any of the following:
(a)Infrequency of use.
(b)High degree of traffic generation.
(c)Requirement of large land area.
2.Within residential zones, the regulations may
permit modifications to minimum yard lot area and height requirements.
D.To carry out the purposes of this article and articles
6 and 6.2 of this chapter, the legislative body may adopt overlay zoning
districts and regulations applicable to particular buildings, structures and
land within individual zones.For the purposes of this subsection,
"overlay zoning district" means a special zoning district that
includes regulations that modify regulations in another zoning district with
which the overlay zoning district is combined. Overlay zoning districts and
regulations shall be adopted pursuant to section 9462.04.
E.The legislative body may approve a change of zone
conditioned on a schedule for development of the specific use or uses for which
rezoning is requested. If at the expiration of this period the property has
not been improved for the use for which it was conditionally approved, the
legislative body, after notification by certified mail to the owner and
applicant who requested the rezoning, shall schedule a public hearing to take
administrative action to extend, remove or determine compliance with the
schedule for development or take legislative action to cause the property to
revert to its former zoning classification.
F.All zoning and rezoning ordinances or regulations
adopted under this article shall be consistent with and conform to the adopted
general plan of the municipality, if any, as adopted under article 6 of this
chapter.In the case of uncertainty in construing or applying the
conformity of any part of a proposed rezoning ordinance to the adopted general
plan of the municipality, the ordinance shall be construed in a manner that
will further the implementation of, and not be contrary to, the goals, policies
and applicable elements of the general plan.A rezoning ordinance
conforms with the land use element of the general plan if it proposes land
uses, densities or intensities within the range of identified uses, densities
and intensities of the land use element of the general plan.
G.No
A regulation or ordinance
under this section may not prevent
or restrict agricultural composting on farmland that is five or more contiguous
acres and that meets the requirements of this subsection.An
agricultural composting operation shall notify in writing the legislative body
of the city or town municipality and the nearest
fire department of the location of the composting operation. If the nearest
fire department is located in a different city or town municipality
from the agricultural composting operation, the agricultural composting
operation shall also notify in writing the fire department of the city or town municipality in which the operation is
located. Agricultural composting is subject to sections 3112 and 49141.
Agricultural composting may not be conducted within one thousand three hundred
twenty feet of an existing residential use, unless the operations are conducted
on farmland or land leased in association with farmland.Any
disposal of manure shall comply with section 49247. For the purposes of
this subsection:
1."Agricultural composting" means the
controlled biological decomposition of organic solid waste under invessel
anaerobic or aerobic conditions where all or part of the materials are
generated on the farmland or will be used on the farmland associated with the
agricultural composting operation.
2."Farmland" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 3111 and is subject to regulation under section 49247.
H.A city or
town municipality may
not adopt a land use regulation or impose any condition for issuance of a
building or use permit or other approval that violates section 9461.16.
I.In
accordance with article II, sections 1 and 2, Constitution of Arizona, the
legislative body of a municipality shall consider the individual property
rights and personal liberties of the residents of the municipality before
adopting any zoning ordinance.
I.J.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Development rights" means the maximum
development that would be allowed on the sending property under any general or
specific plan and local zoning ordinance of a municipality in effect on the
date the municipality adopts an ordinance pursuant to subsection A, paragraph
12 of this section respecting the permissible use, area, bulk or height of
improvements made to the lot or parcel.Development rights may be
calculated and allocated in accordance with factors including dwelling units,
area, floor area, floor area ratio, height limitations, traffic generation or
any other criteria that will quantify a value for the development rights in a
manner that will carry out the objectives of this section.
2."Receiving property" means a lot or
parcel within which development rights are increased pursuant to a transfer of
development rights.Receiving property shall be appropriate and
suitable for development and shall be sufficient to accommodate the
transferable development rights of the sending property without substantial
adverse environmental, economic or social impact to the receiving property or
to neighboring property.
3."Sending property" means a lot or
parcel with special characteristics, including farmland, woodland, desert land,
mountain land, floodplain, natural habitats, recreation or parkland, including
golf course area, or land that has unique aesthetic, architectural or historic
value that a municipality desires to protect from future development.
4."Transfer of development rights" means
the process by which development rights from a sending property are affixed to
one or more receiving properties. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 11-811, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-811.Zoning ordinance; zoning districts; definitions
A.Pursuant to this article, the board of
supervisors may adopt a zoning ordinance in order to conserve and promote the
public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. The zoning ordinance
and all rezonings and zoning regulations amendments adopted under this article
shall be consistent with and conform to the adopted comprehensive plan. In
addition to the other matters that are required or authorized under this
section and article 1 of this chapter, the zoning ordinance:
1.Shall show the zoning districts designated as appropriate
for various classes of residential, business and industrial uses and shall
provide for the establishment of setback lines and other plans providing for
adequate light, air and parking facilities and for expediting traffic within
the districts.
2.May establish the percentage of a lot or parcel
that may be covered by buildings and the size of yards, courts and other open
spaces.
3.Shall consider access to incident solar energy.
4.May provide for retirement community zoning
districts.
5.May provide for the regulation and use of
business licenses, adult oriented business manager permits and adult service
provider permits in conjunction with the establishment or operation of adult
oriented businesses and facilities, including adult arcades, adult bookstores
or video stores, cabarets, adult live entertainment establishments, adult
motion picture theaters, adult theaters, massage establishments and nude model
studios. With respect to cabarets, the ordinance shall not conflict with
specific statutory or valid regulatory requirements applicable to persons
licensed to dispense alcoholic beverages, but the ordinance may include
regulation of the age and conduct of erotic entertainers in a manner at least
as restrictive as rules adopted under title 4. Notwithstanding section 11812,
a county in regulating or licensing businesses and facilities pursuant to this
paragraph may impose reasonable operating requirements that affect the existing
uses of businesses and facilities.
6.Shall designate and zone appropriate areas of
reasonable size in which there may be established with reasonable permanency
canneries, fertilizer plants, refineries, commercial feedlots, meat packing
plants, tallow works and other like businesses. A dairy operation, including
areas designated for the raising of replacement heifers or bulls owned by the
same dairy operation, is not subject to this paragraph, and is a general
agricultural purpose under subsection C D, paragraph 2 of this section
and section 11812, subsection A, paragraph 2.A replacement
heifer or bull raising operation of a dairy that is not on contiguous property
of the dairy is subject to this paragraph unless the operation begins within
onequarter mile of the dairy. 
B.To carry out the purposes of this article, the
board may adopt overlay zoning districts and regulations applicable to
particular buildings, structures and land within individual
zones.For the purposes of this subsection, "overlay zoning
district" means a special zoning district that includes regulations that
modify regulations in another zoning district with which the overlay zoning
district is combined. Overlay zoning districts and regulations shall be
adopted pursuant to section 11813. The provisions of overlay zoning
shall apply retroactively to authorize overlay zoning districts and regulations
adopted before April 20, 1993.
C.In
accordance with article II, sections 1 and 2, Constitution of Arizona, the
board shall consider the individual property rights and personal liberties of
the residents of the county before adopting any zoning ordinance.
C.D.This
section does not authorize:
1.The imposition of dedications, exactions, fees or
other requirements that are not otherwise authorized by law.
2.The regulation or
restriction of the use or occupation of land or improvements for railroad,
mining, metallurgical, grazing or general agricultural purposes, if the tract
concerned is five or more contiguous commercial acres. For the purposes of
this paragraph, general agricultural purposes do not include the cultivation of
cannabis as defined in section 133401 or marijuana as defined in section
133401 or 362801.
D.E.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Adult arcade" means any place to which
the public is permitted or invited and in which coin-operated or slug-operated
or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices are maintained to
show images involving specific sexual activities or specific anatomical areas
to persons in booths or viewing rooms.
2."Adult bookstore or video store" means
a commercial establishment that offers for sale or rent any of the following as
one of its principal business purposes:
(a)Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed
matter, photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or reproductions or
slides or other visual representations that depict or describe specific sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas.
(b)Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are
designed for use in connection with specific sexual activities.
3."Adult live entertainment
establishment" means an establishment that features either:
(a)Persons who appear in a state of nudity.
(b)Live performances that are characterized by the
exposure of specific anatomical areas or specific sexual activities.
4."Adult motion picture theater" means a
commercial establishment in which for any form of consideration films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specific sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas are predominantly shown.
5."Adult oriented business" means adult
arcades, adult bookstores or video stores, cabarets, adult live entertainment
establishments, adult motion picture theaters, adult theaters, massage
establishments that offer adult service or nude model studios.
6."Adult oriented business manager" means
a person on the premises of an adult oriented business who is authorized to
exercise overall operational control of the business.
7."Adult service" means dancing, serving
food or beverages, modeling, posing, wrestling, singing, reading, talking,
listening or other performances or activities conducted for any consideration
in an adult oriented business by a person who is nude or seminude during all or
part of the time that the person is providing the service.
8."Adult service provider" or
"erotic entertainer" means any natural person who provides an adult
service.
9."Adult theater" means a theater,
concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial establishment that predominantly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or who engage in live
performances that are characterized by the exposure of specific anatomical
areas or specific sexual activities.
10."Cabaret" means an adult oriented
business licensed to provide alcoholic beverages pursuant to title 4, chapter
2, article 1.
11."Discernibly turgid state" means the
state of being visibly swollen, bloated, inflated or distended.
12."Massage establishment" means an
establishment in which a person, firm, association or corporation engages in or
permits massage activities, including any method of pressure on, friction
against, stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or
stimulating of external soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid
of any mechanical apparatus or electrical apparatus or appliance. This
paragraph does not apply to:
(a)Persons who are licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 7, 8, 13, 14 or 17.
(b)Registered nurses, licensed practical nurses or
technicians who are acting under the supervision of a physician who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
(c)Registered nurse practitioners who are licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
(d)Persons who are employed or acting as trainers
for a bona fide amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team.
(e)Persons who are licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 3 or 5 if the activity is limited to the head, face or neck.
13."Nude model studio" means a place in
which a person who appears in a state of nudity or who displays specific
anatomical areas is observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by other persons who pay money or other
consideration. Nude model studio does not include a proprietary school that is
licensed by this state, a college, community college or university that is
supported entirely or in part by taxation, a private college or university that
maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are transferable
to a college, community college or university that is supported entirely or in
part by taxation or a structure to which the following apply:
(a)A sign is not visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising appears indicating that a nude person is
available for viewing.
(b)A student must enroll at least three days in
advance of a class in order to participate.
(c)No more than one nude or seminude model is on
the premises at any time.
14."Nude", "nudity" or
"state of nudity" means any of the following:
(a)The appearance of a human anus, genitals or a
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
(b)A state of dress that fails to opaquely cover a
human anus, genitals or a female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola.
15."Principal business purposes" means
that a commercial establishment derives fifty per cent
percent or more of its gross income from the sale or rental of
items listed in paragraph 2 of this subsection. 
16."Seminude" means a state of dress in
which clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region and female breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola, as well as portions of
the body that are covered by supporting straps or devices.
17."Specific
anatomical areas" means any of the following:
(a)A human anus,
genitals, the pubic region or a female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola that is less than completely and opaquely covered.
(b)Male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even
if completely and opaquely covered.
18."Specific sexual activities" means any
of the following:
(a)Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal.
(b)Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy.
(c)Fondling or other erotic touching of the human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breast.
(d)Excretory functions as part of or in connection
with any of the activities under subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph.
END_STATUTE

