







REFERENCE TITLE: drug lab remediation; assayers; repeal







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1256









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

repealing
sections 12116.08, 12990 and 121000, Arizona Revised
Statutes; amending sections 32101, 32102, 32103, 32106
and 32109, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 32112,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 32122 and 32122.01,
arizona revised statutes; repealing sections 32122.03, 32122.04
and 32131, arizona revised statutes; amending sections 32141, 49218
and 491005, arizona revised statutes; relating to the board of technical
registration.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Sections 12-116.08, 12-990 and 12-1000, Arizona Revised
Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.2.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 32, chapter 1, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is changed from "ARCHITECTS, ASSAYERS, ENGINEERS, GEOLOGISTS,
HOME INSPECTORS, LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS AND SURVEYORS" to "ARCHITECTS,
ENGINEERS, GEOLOGISTS, HOME INSPECTORS, LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS AND
SURVEYORS".
Sec.3.Section 32-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-101.Purpose; definitions
A.The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the
safety, health and welfare of the public through the promulgation and
enforcement of standards of qualification for those individuals who are registered or certified and seeking
registration or certification pursuant to this chapter.
B.In this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
1."Advertising" includes business cards,
signs or letterhead provided by a person to the public.
2."Alarm" or "alarm system":
(a)Means any mechanical or electrical device that
is designed to emit an audible alarm or transmit a signal or message if
activated and that is used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building or
other facility or alert other persons of the occurrence of a medical emergency
or the commission of an unlawful act against a person or in a building or other
facility.
(b)Includes a silent, panic, holdup, robbery,
duress, burglary, medical alert or proprietor alarm that requires emergency
personnel to respond.
(c)Does not include a telephone call diverter or a
system that is designed to report environmental and other occurrences and that
is not designed or used to alert or cause other persons to alert public safety
personnel.
3."Alarm agent":
(a)Means a person, whether an employee, an
independent contractor or otherwise, who acts on behalf of an alarm business
and who tests, maintains, services, repairs, sells, rents, leases or installs
alarm systems.
(b)Does not include any action by a person that:
(i)Is performed in connection with an alarm system
located on the person's own property or the property of the person's employer.
(ii)Is acting on behalf of an alarm business whose
work duties do not include visiting the location where an alarm system
installation occurs.
4."Alarm
business":
(a)Means any person
who, either alone or through a third party, engages in the business of either
of the following:
(i)Providing alarm monitoring services.
(ii)Selling, leasing, renting, maintaining,
repairing or installing a nonproprietor alarm system or service.
(b)Does not include
any of the following:
(i)A person or
company that purchases, rents or uses an alarm that is affixed to a motor
vehicle.
(ii)A person who owns or conducts a business of
selling, leasing, renting, installing, maintaining or monitoring an alarm that
is affixed to a motor vehicle.
(iii)A person who installs a nonmonitored
proprietor alarm for a business that the person owns, is employed by or
manages.
(iv)The installation or monitoring of fire alarm
systems.
(v)An alarm system that is operated by a city or
town.
5."Alarm
subscriber" means any person who:
(a)Leases, rents or
purchases any monitored alarm system or service from an alarm business.
(b)Leases or rents an alarm system.
(c)Contracts with an alarm business for alarm
monitoring, installation, repair or maintenance services.
6."Architect" means a person who, by
reason of knowledge of the mathematical and physical sciences and the
principles of architecture and architectural engineering acquired by
professional education and practical experience, is qualified to engage in the
practice of architecture as attested by registration as an architect.
7."Architectintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional architect who is a
graduate of a school approved by the board or who has five years or more of
education or experience, or both, in architectural work which that
meets standards specified by the board in its rules. In addition,
the candidate shall have passed the architectintraining
examination.
8."Architectural practice" means any
professional service or creative work requiring architectural education,
training and experience, and the application of the mathematical and physical
sciences and the principles of architecture and architectural engineering to
such professional services or creative work as consultation, evaluation, design
and review of construction for conformance with contract documents and design,
in connection with any building, planning or site development.A
person shall be deemed to practice or offer to practice architecture who in any
manner represents that the person is an architect, or is able to perform any architectural
service or other services recognized by educational authorities as
architecture.
9."Assayer"
means a person who analyzes metals, ores, minerals, or alloys in order to
ascertain the quantity of gold or silver or any other substance present in
them.A person employed on a fulltime basis as an assayer by
an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining or treating ores or
other minerals shall not be deemed to be engaged in assaying practice for the
purposes of this chapter if the person engages in assaying practice exclusively
for and as an employee of such employer and does not represent that the person
is available and is not represented as being available to perform any assaying
services for anyone other than the person's employer.
10."Assayerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional assayer who is a graduate
of a school and curriculum approved by the board or who has four years or more
of education or experience, or both, in assaying work which meets standards
specified by the board in its rules. In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the assayerintraining examination.
11."Assaying
practice" means any professional service or work requiring assaying
education, training and experience and the application of special knowledge of
the mineral sciences to such service or work as consultation and the evaluation
of minerals.A person is deemed to practice or offer to practice
assaying who in any manner represents that the person is an assayer or is able
to perform any assaying service or other services recognized by educational
authorities as assaying.
12.9."Board"
means the state board of technical registration.
13."Certified
remediation specialist" means a person who has been certified by the board
to perform, supervise and review environmental remediations if the use of a
certified remediation specialist is specifically authorized by title 49 and
rules adopted pursuant to title 49.
14.10."Controlling
person":
(a)Means a person who is designated by an alarm
business.
(b)Does not include an alarm agent.
15."Drug
laboratory site remediation firm" means a firm that is licensed by the
registrar of contractors pursuant to chapter 10 of this title and that performs
remediation of residual contamination from the manufacture of methamphetamine,
ecstasy or LSD or the storage of chemicals or equipment used in manufacturing
methamphetamine, ecstasy or LSD. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Ecstasy"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and
includes any of the precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances
or equipment used in the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(b)"LSD"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and
includes any of the precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances
or equipment used in the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
(c)"Methamphetamine"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401, paragraph 6 and
includes any of the precursor chemicals, regulated chemicals, other substances
or equipment used in the unlawful manufacture of the dangerous drug.
16.11."Engineer"
means a person who, by reason of special knowledge of the mathematical and
physical sciences and the principles and methods of engineering analysis and
design acquired by professional education and practical experience, is
qualified to practice engineering as attested by registration as a professional
engineer.
17.12."Engineering
practice" means any professional service or creative work requiring
engineering education, training and experience and the application of special
knowledge of the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences to such
professional services or creative work as consultation, research investigation,
evaluation, planning, surveying as defined in paragraph 27 22,
subdivisions (d) and (e) of this subsection, design, location, development, and
review of construction for conformance with contract documents and design, in
connection with any public or private utility, structure, building, machine,
equipment, process, work or project. Such services and work include plans and
designs relating to the location, development, mining and treatment of ore and
other minerals. A person shall be deemed to be practicing or offering to
practice engineering if the person practices any branch of the profession of
engineering, or by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or any
other manner represents that the person is a professional engineer, or is able to perform or
does perform any engineering service or other service recognized by educational
authorities as engineering. A person employed on a fulltime basis as an
engineer by an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining and
treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to be practicing
engineering for the purposes of this chapter if the person engages in the
practice of engineering exclusively for and as an employee of such employer and
does not represent that the person is available and is not represented as being
available to perform any engineering services for persons other than the
person's employer.
18.13."Engineerintraining"
means a candidate for registration as a professional engineer who is a graduate
in an approved engineering curriculum of four years or more of a school
approved by the board or who has had
four years or more of education or experience, or both, in engineering work which that meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the engineerintraining
examination.
19.14."Firm"
means any individual or partnership, corporation or other type of association,
including the association of a nonregistrant and a registrant who offers to the
public professional services regulated by the board.
20.15."Geological
practice" means any professional service or work requiring geological
education, training and experience,
and the application of special knowledge of the earth sciences to such
professional services as consultation, evaluation of mining properties,
petroleum properties and groundwater resources, professional supervision of
exploration for mineral natural resources including metallic and nonmetallic
ores, petroleum and groundwater, and the geological phases of engineering
investigations.
21.16."Geologist"
means a person, not of necessity an engineer, who by reason of special
knowledge of the earth sciences and the principles and methods of search for
and appraisal of mineral or other natural resources acquired by professional
education and practical experience is qualified to practice geology as attested
by registration as a professional geologist.A person employed on a
fulltime basis as a geologist by an employer engaged in the business of
developing, mining or treating ores and other minerals shall not be deemed to
be engaged in geological practice for the purposes of this chapter if the
person engages in geological practice exclusively for and as an employee of
such employer and does not represent that the person is available and is not
represented as being available to perform any geological services for persons
other than the person's employer.
22.17."Geologistintraining"
means a candidate for registration asa professional geologist who is a
graduate of a school approved by theboard or who has had four years or more of education or
experience, or both, in geological work which
that meets standards
specified by the boardinits rules.In
addition, the candidate shall have passed the geologistintraining
examination.
23.18."Home
inspection" means a visual analysis for the purposes of providing a
professional opinion of the building, any reasonably accessible installed
components and the operation of the building's systems, including the controls
normally operated by the owner, for the following components of a residential
building of four units or less:
(a)Heating system.
(b)Cooling system.
(c)Plumbing system.
(d)Electrical system.
(e)Structural components.
(f)Foundation.
(g)Roof covering.
(h)Exterior and interior components.
(i)Site aspects as they affect the building.
(j)Pursuant to rules adopted by the board, swimming
pool and spa.
24.19."Home
inspection report" means a written report that is prepared for compensation,
that is issued after a home inspection and that clearly describes and
identifies the inspected systems, structures and components of a completed
dwelling and any visible major defects found to be in need of immediate major
repair and any recommendations for additional evaluation by appropriate
persons.
25.20."Home
inspector" means an individual who is certified pursuant to this chapter
as a home inspector and who engages in the business of performing home
inspections and writing home inspection reports.
26.21."Home
inspectorintraining" means a candidate for certification as
a home inspector who has completed a course of study approved by the board and
who is participating in a training program that complies with standards
recommended by the home inspector rules and standards committee and approved by
the board.
27.22."Land
surveying practice" means the performance of one or more of the following
professional services:
(a)Measurement of land to determine the position of
any monument or reference point which
that marks a property
line, boundary or corner for the purpose of determining the area or description
of the land.
(b)Location, relocation, establishment,
reestablishment, setting, resetting or replacing of corner monuments or reference
points which identify land boundaries, rightsofway or easements.
(c)Platting or plotting of lands for the purpose of
subdividing.
(d)Measurement by angles, distances and elevations
of natural or artificial features in the air, on the surface and immediate
subsurface of the earth, within underground workings and on the surface or
within bodies of water for the purpose of determining or establishing their
location, size, shape, topography, grades, contours or water surface and
depths, and the preparation and perpetuation of field note records and maps
depicting these features.
(e)Setting, resetting or replacing of points to
guide the location of new construction.
28.23."Land
surveyor" means a person who by reason of knowledge of the mathematical
and physical sciences, principles of land surveying and evidence gathering
acquired by professional education or practical experience, or both, is
qualified to practice land surveying as attested by registration as a land
surveyor.A person employed on a fulltime basis as a land
surveyor by an employer engaged in the business of developing, mining or
treating ores or other minerals shall not be deemed to be engaged in land
surveying practice for purposes of this chapter if the person engages in land surveying
practice exclusively for and as an employee of such employer and does not
represent that the person is available and is not represented as being
available to perform any land surveying services for persons other than the
person's employer.
29.24."Land
surveyorintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional land surveyor who is a graduate of a school and curriculum
approved by the board,
or who has four years or more of education or experience, or both, in land
surveying work which that meets standards specified
by the board in its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have
passed the land surveyorintraining examination.
30.25."Landscape
architect" means a person who, by reason of professional education or
practical experience, or both, is qualified to engage in the practice of
landscape architecture as attested by registration as a landscape architect.
31.26."Landscape
architectintraining" means a candidate for registration as a
professional landscape architect who is a graduate of a school approved by the
board or who has had four
years or more of education or experience, or both, in landscape architectural
work which that meets standards specified by the board in
its rules.In addition, the candidate shall have passed the
landscape architectintraining examination.
32.27."Landscape
architectural practice" means the performance of professional services
such as consultations, investigation, reconnaissance, research, planning,
design or responsible supervision in connection with the development of land
and incidental water areas where, and to the extent that, the dominant purpose
of such services is the preservation, enhancement or determination of proper
land uses, natural land features, ground cover and planting, naturalistic and
aesthetic values, the settings of and approaches to buildings, structures,
facilities or other improvements, natural drainage and the consideration and
the determination of inherent problems of the land relating to erosion, wear and
tear, light or other hazards.This practice shall include the
location and arrangement of such tangible objects and features as are
incidental and necessary to the purposes outlined in this paragraph but shall
not include the making of cadastral surveys or final land plats for official
recording or approval, nor mandatorily include planning for governmental
subdivisions.
33.28."Monitored
alarm" means a device that is designed for the detection of an entry on
any premises and that if activated generates a notification signal.
34."Onsite
supervisor" means the employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm
who is authorized to oversee onsite workers in the performance of their
duties.
35."Onsite
worker" means an employee of a drug laboratory site remediation firm who
has onsite duties or who handles contaminated materials, chemicals or
contaminated equipment.
36.29."Person"
means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
organization.
37.30."Principal"
means an individual who is an officer of the corporation or is designated by a
firm as having full authority and responsible charge of the services offered by
the firm.
38.31."Proprietor
alarm" means any alarm or alarm system that is owned by an alarm subscriber
who has not contracted with an alarm business.
39.32."Registrant"
means a person registered or certified by the board. 
40.33."Registration"
means a registration or certification issued by the board. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 32-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-102.Board of technical registration
A.A state board of technical registration is
established consisting of members appointed by the governor as follows:
1.Two architects.
2.Three professional engineers, two of whom are
representatives of branches of engineering other than civil engineering and are
registered in those branches pursuant to this chapter.
3.One public member.
4.One landscape architect.
5.One geologist or assayer. 
6.One land surveyor.
B.Upon the expiration of any of the terms a
successor, qualified pursuant to subsection A, shall be appointed for a full
term of three years.The governor may remove a member of the board
for misconduct, incapacity or neglect of duty.Appointment to fill a
vacancy caused other than by expiration of term shall be for the unexpired
portion of the term.
C.No member may serve more than two consecutive
terms.END_STATUTE 
Sec.5.Section 32-103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-103.Qualifications of members
A.Each professional member of the board shall:
1.Be at least twentyfive years of age.
2.Have been a resident of the state for at least
three years immediately preceding appointment as a member.
B.Each member who is an architect, a geologist, an assayer, a landscape architect, a
professional engineer or a land surveyor shall have had at least five years'
active professional experience as attested by registration under this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 32-106, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-106.Powers and duties
A.The board shall:
1.Adopt rules for the conduct of its meetings and
performance of duties imposed on it by law.
2.Adopt an official seal for attestation of
certificates of registration and other official papers and documents.
3.Consider and act on or delegate the authority to
act on applications for registration or certification.
4.Conduct examinations for intraining and professional
registration except for an alarm business or an alarm agent.
5.Hear and act on complaints or charges or direct
an administrative law judge to hear and act on complaints and charges.
6.Compel attendance of witnesses, administer oaths
and take testimony concerning all matters coming within its jurisdiction. In
exercising these powers, the board may issue subpoenas for the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, records, documents and other evidence it
deems relevant to an investigation or hearing.
7.Keep a record of its proceedings.
8.Keep a register that shows the date of each
application for registration or certification, the name of the applicant, the
practice or branch of practice in which the applicant has applied for registration,
if applicable, and the disposition of the application.
9.Do other things necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
B.The board shall specify the proficiency
designation in the branch of engineering in which the applicant has designated
proficiency on the certificate of registration and renewal card issued to each
registered engineer and shall authorize the engineer to use the title of
registered professional engineer. The board shall decide what branches of
engineering it shall recognize.
C.The board may hold membership in and be
represented at national councils or organizations of proficiencies registered
under this chapter and may pay the appropriate membership fees. The board may
conduct standard examinations on behalf of national councils and may establish
fees for those examinations.
D.The board may employ and pay on a fee basis
persons, including fulltime employees of a state institution, bureau or
department, to prepare and grade examinations given to applicants for registration
and may fix the fee to be paid for these services.These employees
are authorized to prepare, grade and monitor examinations and perform other
services the board authorizes, and to receive payment for these services from
the technical registration fund. The board may contract with an organization
to administer the registration examination, including selecting the test site,
scheduling the examination, billing and collecting the fee directly from the
applicant and grading the examination if a national council of which the board
is a member or a professional association approved by the board does not
provide these services.If a national council of which the board is
a member or a professional association approved by the board does provide these
services, the board shall enter into an agreement with the national council or
professional association to administer the registration examination.
E.The board may rent necessary office space and pay
the cost of this office space from the technical registration fund.
F.The board may adopt rules establishing rules of
professional conduct for registrants.
G.The board may require evidence it deems necessary
to establish the continuing competency of registrants as a condition of renewal
of licenses.
H.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, the
board may employ persons as it deems necessary.
I.The board
shall issue a certificate and renewal card to each drug laboratory site
remediation firm, remediation supervisor and onsite worker.
J.i.The board shall
issue or may authorize the executive director to issue a certificate or renewal
certificate to each alarm business and a certification or renewal certification
card to each alarm agent if the qualifications prescribed by this chapter are
met. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
32-109, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-109.Technical registration fund
A.Pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, the executive director shall deposit
ten per cent percent of all fees or other
revenues received by the board in the state general fund to assist in defraying
the cost of maintaining the state government and shall deposit the remaining
ninety per cent percent in a separate fund,
known as the technical registration fund, to be used only in defraying expenses
of the board and in prosecuting violations of this chapter.
B.Monies deposited in the technical registration
fund pursuant to subsection A of this section are subject to section 35143.01.
C.In addition
to the monies deposited in the technical registration fund pursuant to
subsection A of this section, the technical registration fund consists of
monies received pursuant to section 12116.08. The monies that are
received in the fund pursuant to this subsection shall be used:
1.To pay the
board's expenses associated with investigations and enforcement actions
pursuant to section 121000.
2.For a
county, city or town for remediation pursuant to section 121000,
subsection D.Notwithstanding section 35143.01, the monies
received pursuant to section 12116.08 are not subject to legislative
appropriation. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Repeal
Section 32-112,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.9.Section 32-122, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.Qualifications for intraining registration
A.An applicant for intraining registration
as an architect, engineer, geologist or landscape architect shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be a graduate of a school approved by the board
or have four years or more, or if an applicant for intraining registration
as an architect, five years or more, of education or experience, or both, in
work in the profession in which registration is sought that meets standards
specified by the board in its rules.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126,
subsection D, pass the intraining examination in the profession in which
registration is sought.
B.An applicant for intraining registration
as an assayer or a land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be a graduate of a school and curriculum approved
by the board, or have four years or more of education or experience, or both,
in work in the profession in which registration is sought that meets standards
specified by the board in its rules.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126,
subsection D, pass the intraining examination in the profession in which
registration is sought.
C.An applicant for intraining registration
as a home inspectorintraining shall:
1.Be of good
moral character and repute.
2.meet
the requirements of section 32122.02, subsection A, paragraphs 1 through
7. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 32-122.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-122.01.Qualifications for professional registration
A.An applicant for professional registration as an
architect, engineer, geologist or landscape architect shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be actively engaged in education or experience,
or both, in the profession for which registration is sought for at least eight
years.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126, pass
the intraining and professional examinations in the profession in which
registration is sought.
B.An applicant for professional registration as an assayer or a land surveyor shall:
1.Be of good moral character and repute.
2.Be actively engaged in education or experience,
or both, in the profession for which registration is sought for at least six
years.
3.Unless exempt under section 32126, pass
the intraining and professional examinations in the profession in which
registration is sought.
C.In computing the period of active engagement
required under this section:
1.Each year of study satisfactorily completed in an
architectural, engineering, geological or landscape architectural school
approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active engagement up to a
maximum of five years.One year or more of teaching architectural,
engineering, geological or landscape architectural subjects in a school
approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active engagement.
2.Each year of study satisfactorily completed in an assaying or a land surveying curriculum and school
approved by the board is considered equivalent to one year of active engagement
up to a maximum of four years. One year or more of teaching assaying or land surveying or other courses
approved by the board as pertinent to the profession in which registration is
sought in a school approved by the board is equivalent to one year of active
engagement.
D.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, experience credited by the board under this section and sections 32101,
32122 and 32126 must be attained under the direct supervision of
a professional who is satisfactory to the board and registered in this state,
another state or a foreign country in the profession in which the applicant is
seeking registration, except that up to one year's experience may be attained
under the direct supervision of a professional who is satisfactory to the board
and registered in another profession regulated under this chapter in this
state, another state or a foreign country.
E.By twothirds majority vote the board may
allow an applicant except for an architect applicant to meet the requirements
of subsection D of this section by crediting comparable experience satisfactory
to the board that the applicant attained without direct supervision of a
registered professional.END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Repeal
Sections 32122.03, 32122.04 and 32131,
Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.12.Section 32-141, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-141.Firm registration
A.A firm shall not engage in the practice of any
boardregulated
profession or occupation unless the firm is registered with the board and the
professional services are conducted under the full authority and responsible
charge of a principal of the firm, who is also a registrant.
B.A person shall file a registration application
for each branch office that is located in this state and that is part of a firm
registered with the board. The branch office application shall list a
designated registrant having full authority and responsible charge of the
professional services of that branch office. The designated registrant in a
branch office need not be a principal of the firm.
C.A firm wishing to offer professional services in
this state shall file with the board an application for registration on a form that is provided by the board
and accompanied by the appropriate application fee as prescribed by the board.
Firms shall also identify responsible registrants by the registrant's
registration certificate number.Each firm shall list a description
of the services the firm is offering to the public.The board shall
be notified in writing within thirty days of any change occurring in the
registered principals, any change in the firm's name or address or any change
in a branch office address or designated registrant.Except as
provided in section 324301, a new application shall be filed each year
by the firm within thirty days of the anniversary date of the original firm
registration. 
D.No firm may advertise its availability to perform
home inspections by home inspectors certified pursuant to this chapter unless
each home inspection is performed by a home inspector certified pursuant to
this chapter and each home inspection report is prepared as a result of the
inspector's onsite observation.
E.A drug
laboratory site remediation firm shall provide both of the following:
1.The name of
the onsite supervisor who is authorized and responsible for the services
being offered.
2.Proof that
the firm is licensed by the registrar of contractors pursuant to chapter 10 of
this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section
49-218, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-218.Definitions
In this article, unless the
context otherwise requires:
1."CERCLA
brownfields cleanup revolving loan fund program" means the program
established by the United States environmental
protection agency to provide financial assistance in the form of loans or
grants to eligible persons to remediate contamination at eligible sites as
provided in section 104(k) of CERCLA and applicable guidance documents prepared
by the United States environmental
protection agency to implement this program.
2."Eligible activities" means removal as
defined by section 101(23) of CERCLA and includes required engineering
evaluations, cost analysis of cleanup alternatives, public participation
requirements and reasonable and necessary site monitoring activities during the
remediation.
3."Eligible person" means a person who is
eligible to receive a loan or grant under the CERCLA brownfields cleanup
revolving loan fund program.
4."Eligible site" means a site that is a
brownfields site as defined by section 101(39) of CERCLA, that is within an
area designated in a cooperative agreement between the department and the United States environmental
protection agency and that is one of the following: 
(a)Accepted into the department's voluntary
remediation program.
(b)Subject to a remediation agreement with the
department's water quality assurance revolving fund program.
(c)Being
addressed by a remediation specialist who is certified by the board of
technical registration pursuant to section 32-131.
(d)(c)Being addressed through another
program or oversight mechanism that is approved by the department.END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 49-1005, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE49-1005.Corrective action
A.When a release is discovered the owner and
operator of an underground storage tank shall take immediate action to stop the
release and to identify and mitigate any fire, explosion or vapor hazard.
B.The owner or operator of an underground storage
tank shall take corrective action in response to the release of regulated
substances from the tank, except to the extent that this responsibility is
limited by section 49-1016, subsection F or section 491019, subsection
D. A person may take corrective action pursuant to section 491016,
subsection C.
C.Nothing in this section shall prevent prevents the director from taking or requiring
corrective action pursuant to any other provision of law.
D.Corrective actions shall:
1.Assure the protection of public health and
welfare and the environment.
2.To the extent practicable, provide for the
control, management or cleanup of regulated substances so as to allow the
maximum beneficial use of the water and soil of this state.
3.Be reasonable, necessary, cost-effective and
technically feasible.
E.Notwithstanding chapter 2, article 2 of this
title, the director may approve a corrective action that may result in water
quality exceeding water quality standards after completion of the corrective
action, if the director finds that the corrective action meets the requirements
of this section.The director's approval pursuant to this section
does not affect the classification of an aquifer pursuant to section 49224.
The director shall adopt rules to implement this section. These rules shall
include public notice provisions, criteria for the selection of corrective
actions, including the level and extent of cleanup and the comparison of
corrective action alternatives that may include plume remediation alternatives,
monitoring, source control, controlled migration, physical containment and
natural attenuation.
F.The director shall prescribe by rule the
corrective actions to be taken in the event of a release of a regulated
substance from an underground storage tank.Any rules adopted
pursuant to this subsection shall be consistent with and no more stringent than
federal regulations in effect on the date on which the rules are adopted. The
director shall adopt rules to permit a risk
based riskbased corrective
action alternative that incorporates the
use of certified remediation specialists.Corrective
actions shall include requirements regarding:
1.Initial response measures.
2.Initial abatement measures.
3.A site check.
4.Initial site characterization.
5.Removal of free product.
6.Investigations for soil, surface water and
groundwater cleanups.
7.Responses to contaminated soil, surface water and
groundwater.
G.Corrective actions may include the use of
biostimulation with indigenous microbes and bioaugmentation using microbes that
are nonpathogenic, that are nonopportunistic and that are naturally occurring.
H.Until rules adopted pursuant to subsection F of
this section are in effect, corrective actions shall be accomplished in a
manner consistent with and no more stringent than 40 Code of Federal
Regulations sections 280.60 through 280.67.END_STATUTE 
Sec.15.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act in the Fifty-third Legislature, First Regular Session.

