







REFERENCE TITLE: empowerment scholarships; expansion;
  phase-in







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1279









Introduced by
Senators
  Lesko, Begay, Biggs, Burges, Kavanagh, Smith, Yarbrough; Representatives
  Borrelli, Kern, Leach, Livingston, Montenegro: Senators Allen S, Barto,
  Farnsworth D, Griffin, Yee; Representatives Allen J, Barton, Boyer, Fann,
  Finchem, Mesnard, Norgaard, Thorpe





AN ACT

amending section
152401, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to arizona empowerment
scholarship accounts.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-2401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-2401.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Curriculum" means a complete course of
study for a particular content area or grade level, including any supplemental
materials required by the curriculum.
2."Department" means the department of
education.
3."Eligible postsecondary institution"
means a community college as defined in section 151401, a university
under the jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents or an accredited private
postsecondary institution.
4."Parent" means a resident of this state
who is the parent or legal guardian of a qualified student.
5."Qualified school" means a
nongovernmental primary or secondary school or a preschool for pupils with
disabilities that is located in this state and that does not discriminate on
the basis of race, color or national origin.
6."Qualified student" means a resident of
this state who:
(a)Is any of the following:
(i)Identified as having a disability under section
504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 (29 United States Code section 794).
(ii)Identified by a school district or by an
independent third party pursuant to section 152403, subsection I as a
child with a disability as defined in section 15761.
(iii)A child with a disability who is eligible to
receive services from a school district under section 15763.
(iv)Attending a school or school district that has
been assigned a letter grade of D or F pursuant to section 15241 or who
is currently eligible to attend kindergarten and who resides within the
attendance boundary of a school that has been assigned a letter grade of D or F
pursuant to section 15241.
(v)A previous recipient of a scholarship issued
pursuant to section 15891 or this section.
(vi)A child of a parent who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vii)A child with a guardian who is a member of the
armed forces of the United States and who is on active duty or was killed in
the line of duty.A child who meets the requirements of this item is
not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(viii)A child who is a ward of the juvenile court
and who is residing with a prospective permanent placement pursuant to section
8862 and the case plan is adoption or permanent guardianship.
(ix)A child who was a ward of the juvenile court
and who achieved permanency through adoption or permanent guardianship.
(x)A child who is the sibling of a current or
previous empowerment scholarship account recipient.
(xi)A child who resides within the boundaries of an
Indian reservation in this state.
(xii)BEGINNING IN THE 2016-2017
SCHOOL YEAR, Any child who attends A PUBLIC SCHOOL IN a kindergarten program or
any of grades one through five. A child who meets the requirements of this
item is not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(xiii)BEGINNING IN THE 2017-2018
SCHOOL YEAR, Any child who ATTENDs A PUBLIC SCHOOL IN a KINDERGARTEN program or
any of grades one through eight. A child who meets the requirements of this
item is not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph. 
(xiv)BEGINNING IN THE 2018-2019
SCHOOL YEAR and each school year thereafter, Any child who attends a PUBLIC
SCHOOL IN a kindergarten program or any of grades one through twelve. A child
who meets the requirements of this item is not subject to subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(b)And, except as provided in subdivision (a),
items (vi), and (vii), (xii),
(xiii) and (xiv) of this paragraph, who meets
any of the following requirements:
(i)Attended a governmental primary or secondary
school as a fulltime student as defined in section 15901 for at
least the first one hundred days of the prior fiscal year and who transferred
from a governmental primary or secondary school under a contract to participate
in an empowerment scholarship account.
(ii)Previously participated in the empowerment
scholarship account program.
(iii)Received a scholarship under section 431505
and who continues to attend a qualified school if the student attended a
governmental primary or secondary school as a fulltime student as
defined in section 15901 for at least ninety days of the prior fiscal
year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified school.
(iv)Was eligible for an Arizona scholarship for
pupils with disabilities and received monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 or received an Arizona scholarship for pupils
with disabilities but did not receive monies from a school tuition organization
pursuant to section 431505 and who continues to attend a qualified
school if the student attended a governmental primary or secondary school as a fulltime
student as defined in section 15-901 for at least ninety days of the prior
fiscal year or one full semester prior to attending a qualified school.
(v)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a
kindergarten program in a school district or charter school in this state.
(vi)Has not previously attended a governmental
primary or secondary school but is currently eligible to enroll in a program
for preschool children with disabilities in this state.
7."Treasurer" means the office of the
state treasurer. END_STATUTE

