







REFERENCE TITLE: body of water; aggregate mining







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1248









Introduced by
Senator
  Shooter





AN ACT

amending section
45-132, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to bodies of water.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 45-132, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE45-132.Filling large bodies of water for landscape, scenic or
recreational purposes prohibited; exceptions; preemption
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, in an active management area established under chapter 2 of this
title, a person shall not use any water for the purpose of filling or refilling
all or a portion of a body of water.
B.This section does not apply to a body of water if
any of the following applies:
1.The body of water was filled before January 1,
1987.If the surface area of the body of water is increased on or
after January 1, 1987, this exception does not apply to the quantity of water
that is added.
2.The director has determined that substantial
capital investment has been made in the physical on-site construction of the
body of water before January 1, 1987. If the surface area of the body of water
is increased after it is initially filled, this exception does not apply to the
quantity of water that is added.
3.The body of water is located in a recreational
facility that is open to the public and that
is owned or operated by the United States, this state, a city,
town or county, a flood control district established under title 48, chapter 21
or a multi-county water conservation district established under title 48, chapter
22.
4.The body of water is filled and refilled
exclusively with any one or any combination of the following:
(a)Effluent.
(b)Storm water runoff that is not subject to
appropriation under section 45-141.
(c)Poor quality water used pursuant to a permit
issued under subsections C and D of this section.
(d)Groundwater withdrawn pursuant to a drainage
water withdrawal permit issued under section 45-519.
(e)Groundwater withdrawn in the first year of a
temporary dewatering permit issued under section 45-518.
(f)Groundwater withdrawn as part of a remedial
action under title 49, chapter 2, article 5, including mitigation of a
nonhazardous release undertaken pursuant to an order issued by the department
of environmental quality pursuant to section 49286.
(g)Water used pursuant to a permit for interim
water use issued under section 45-133.
(h)Surface water except central Arizona project
water that, as determined by the director, physically occurs at such times, in
such quantities or under such other circumstances that it cannot be physically
captured and beneficially used by any other holder of an appropriative right.
5.The body of water is an integral part of a golf
course that complies with any applicable conservation requirements in the management
plan for the active management area adopted under chapter 2, article 9 of this
title.
6.The body of water is unsealed and is an integral
part of an underground storage facility for which the director has issued a
permit under chapter 3.1 of this title.
7.The body of water is a swimming pool that is
owned and operated by a hotel, motel, country club or resort and that has a surface area equal
to or less than forty-three thousand five hundred sixty square
feet.If a hotel, motel, country club or resort has more than one
swimming pool, only one of those swimming pools may have a surface area greater
than twelve thousand three hundred twenty square feet.
8.The body
of water is within the boundaries of the exempted area delineated on the map of
the Phoenix active management area filed in the office of the secretary of
state on May 12, 1988 as prescribed by section 45411.01, subsection E
and all of the following apply:
(a)The body of water is ESTABLISHED
as the result of aggregate mining as defined in section 27-441.
(b)A RECLAMATION plan for the
property on which the body of water is located has been approved as prescribed
by section 27-1273.
(c)The property on which the BODY
of water is located has been released from the reclamation plan following the
COMPLETION of reclamation ACTIVITIES required under the plan.
(d)THE property on which the BODY
of water is located has been improved as a recreational or resort facility that
is open to members of the public. this subdivision does not limit the property
owner from collecting an entrance or use fee.
C.A person who seeks to use poor quality
groundwater to fill or refill all or a portion of a body of water shall apply
to the director for a permit to use the groundwater for that purpose. The director
may issue a permit if the applicant demonstrates that all of the following
apply:
1.The applicant otherwise has a right to use the
proposed source of groundwater for the proposed purpose.
2.The groundwater because of its poor quality
cannot be used for another beneficial purpose at the present time and it is not
economically feasible to treat and transport the groundwater and use it for
another beneficial purpose.
3.The withdrawal of the groundwater is consistent
with the management plan and achievement of the management goal for the active
management area.
D.A permit issued pursuant to subsection C of this
section may be issued for a period of up to thirty-five years. The director
shall determine the duration of the permit on the basis of the estimated life
of the source of poor quality groundwater and the potential for future
beneficial use. The director shall monitor the use of groundwater pursuant to
the permit and shall terminate the permit if any of the conditions for issuance
of the permit no longer applies.A permit may be renewed subject to
the same criteria used in granting the original permit.
E.This section preempts all municipal and county
laws, charters, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to the use of any
water to fill or refill all or a portion of a body of water, except that this
section does not preempt a law, charter, ordinance, rule or regulation that has
previously been adopted, passed or enacted or is subsequently adopted, passed
or enacted if the law, charter, ordinance, rule or regulation is more
restrictive than this section. END_STATUTE

