







REFERENCE TITLE: teacher certification; reciprocity







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1208









Introduced by
Senator
  Allen S





AN ACT

amending sections
15203 and 15533, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to teacher
certification.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-203, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-203.Powers and duties
A.The state board of education shall:
1.Exercise general supervision over and regulate
the conduct of the public school system and adopt any rules and policies it
deems necessary to accomplish this purpose.
2.Keep a record of its proceedings.
3.Make rules for its own government.
4.Determine the policy and work undertaken by it.
5.Subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, employ
staff on the recommendation of the superintendent of public instruction.
6.Prescribe the duties of its employees if not
prescribed by statute.
7.Delegate to the superintendent of public
instruction the execution of board policies and rules.
8.Recommend to the legislature changes or additions
to the statutes pertaining to schools.
9.Prepare, publish and distribute reports
concerning the educational welfare of this state.
10.Prepare a budget for expenditures necessary for
proper maintenance of the board and accomplishment of its purposes and present
the budget to the legislature.
11.Aid in the enforcement of laws relating to
schools.
12.Prescribe a minimum course of study in the
common schools, minimum competency requirements for the promotion of pupils
from the third grade and minimum course of study and competency requirements
for the promotion of pupils from the eighth grade. The state board of
education shall prepare a fiscal impact statement of any proposed changes to
the minimum course of study or competency requirements and, on completion,
shall send a copy to the director of the joint legislative budget committee and
the executive director of the school facilities board. The state board of
education shall not adopt any changes in the minimum course of study or
competency requirements in effect on July 1, 1998 that will have a fiscal
impact on school capital costs.
13.Prescribe minimum course of study and competency
requirements for the graduation of pupils from high school.The
state board of education shall prepare a fiscal impact statement of any
proposed changes to the minimum course of study or competency requirements and,
on completion, shall send a copy to the director of the joint legislative
budget committee and the executive director of the school facilities
board.The state board of education shall not adopt any changes in
the minimum course of study or competency requirements in effect on July 1,
1998 that will have a fiscal impact on school capital costs.
14.Supervise and control the certification of
persons engaged in instructional work directly as any classroom, laboratory or
other teacher or indirectly as a supervisory teacher, speech therapist,
principal or superintendent in a school district, including school district
preschool programs, or any other educational institution below the community college,
college or university level, and prescribe rules for certification, including
rules for certification of teachers who have teaching experience and who are
trained in other states, that are not unnecessarily restrictive and are
substantially similar to the rules prescribed for the certification of teachers
trained in this state. The rules:
(a)Shall allow a variety of alternative teacher and
administrator preparation programs, with variations in program sequence and
design, to apply for program approval. The state board shall adopt rules
pursuant to this subdivision designed to allow for a variety of formats and
shall not require a prescribed answer or design from the program provider in
order to obtain approval from the state board. The state board shall evaluate
each program provider based on the program's ability to prepare teachers and
administrators and to recruit teachers and administrators with a variety of
experiences and talents. The state board shall permit universities under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, community colleges in this state,
private postsecondary institutions licensed by this state, school districts,
charter schools and professional organizations to apply for program approval
and shall create application procedures and certification criteria that are
less restrictive than those for traditional preparation programs. Alternative
preparation program graduates shall:
(i)Hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited
postsecondary education institution.
(ii)Demonstrate professional knowledge and subject
knowledge proficiency pursuant to section 15533.
(iii)Obtain a fingerprint clearance card pursuant
to section 15-534.
(iv)Complete training in structured English
immersion as prescribed by the state board.
(v)Complete training in research based systematic
phonics instruction as prescribed in subdivision (b) of this paragraph.
(vi)Demonstrate the required proficiency in the
Constitutions of the United States and Arizona as prescribed in section 15532.
(b)Shall require applicants for all certificates
for common school instruction to complete a minimum of fortyfive
classroom hours or three college level credit hours, or the equivalent, of
training in research-based systematic phonics instruction from a public or
private provider.
(c)Shall not require a teacher to obtain a master's
degree or to take any additional graduate courses as a condition of
certification or recertification.
(d)Shall allow a general equivalency diploma to be
substituted for a high school diploma in the certification of emergency
substitute teachers.
(e)Shall allow but shall not require the
superintendent of a school district to obtain certification from the state
board of education.
(f)Shall provide for the issuance of a specialized
teaching certificate to classroom teachers with expertise in either science,
technology, engineering or mathematics.Teachers who are certified
pursuant to this subdivision shall complete training in structured English
immersion as prescribed by the state board. Teachers who are certified
pursuant to this subdivision are exempt from the professional knowledge and
subject knowledge proficiency requirements prescribed in section 15533
and from the proficiency requirements prescribed in section 15532 on the
Constitutions of the United States and Arizona. A teacher who obtains a
specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision may provide
instruction in the teacher's field of expertise in grades six through twelve at
any public school in this state.This subdivision does not require a
teacher who has obtained another type of teaching certificate from the state
board to obtain a specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision
in order to provide instruction in grades six through twelve in a science,
technology, engineering or mathematics course.A classroom teacher
is eligible for a specialized teaching certificate pursuant to this subdivision
if the teacher meets all of the following requirements:
(i)Has taught science, technology, engineering or
mathematics courses for the last two consecutive years and for a total of at
least three years at one or more regionally or nationally accredited public or
private postsecondary institutions.An applicant shall demonstrate
compliance with this requirement by providing the state board with written
proof of employment for specific durations from one or more qualifying
postsecondary institutions.
(ii)Has either a baccalaureate degree, a master's
degree or a doctorate degree in an academic subject that is specific to
science, technology, engineering or mathematics or has obtained a passing score
on a statewide educator assessment in science, technology, engineering or
mathematics that is recognized by the state board.
(iii)Obtains a valid fingerprint clearance card
that is issued pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1.
(g)Notwithstanding section 15533, may exempt
persons applying for a secondary education certificate from the subject
knowledge portion of the proficiency examination if the state board determines
that the person has work experience in science, technology, engineering or
mathematics and can demonstrate adequate knowledge of a particular subject
through a postsecondary education degree or twentyfour credit hours of
relevant coursework.
15.Adopt a list of
approved tests for determining special education assistance to gifted pupils as
defined in and as provided in chapter 7, article 4.1 of this title. The
adopted tests shall provide separate scores for quantitative reasoning, verbal
reasoning and nonverbal reasoning and shall be capable of providing reliable
and valid scores at the highest ranges of the score distribution.
16.Adopt rules governing
the methods for the administration of all proficiency examinations.
17.Adopt proficiency
examinations for its use. The state board of education shall determine the
passing score for the proficiency examination.
18.Include within its
budget the cost of contracting for the purchase, distribution and scoring of the
examinations as provided in paragraphs 16 and 17 of this subsection.
19.Supervise and control
the qualifications of professional nonteaching school personnel and prescribe
standards relating to qualifications.The standards shall not
require the business manager of a school district to obtain certification from
the state board of education.
20.Impose such
disciplinary action, including the issuance of a letter of censure, suspension,
suspension with conditions or revocation of a certificate, upon on
a finding of immoral or unprofessional conduct.
21.Establish an
assessment, data gathering and reporting system for pupil performance as
prescribed in chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
22.Adopt a rule to
promote braille literacy pursuant to section 15214.
23.Adopt rules
prescribing procedures for the investigation by the department of education of
every written complaint alleging that a certificated person has engaged in
immoral conduct.
24.For purposes of
federal law, serve as the state board for vocational and technological
education and meet at least four times each year solely to execute the powers
and duties of the state board for vocational and technological education.
25.Develop and maintain a
handbook for use in the schools of this state that provides guidance for the
teaching of moral, civic and ethical education.The handbook shall
promote existing curriculum frameworks and shall encourage school districts to
recognize moral, civic and ethical values within instructional and programmatic
educational development programs for the general purpose of instilling
character and ethical principles in pupils in kindergarten programs and grades
one through twelve.
26.Require pupils to
recite the following passage from the declaration of independence for pupils in
grades four through six at the commencement of the first class of the day in
the schools, except that a pupil shall not be required to participate if the
pupil or the pupil's parent or guardian objects:
We hold these truths to be selfevident, that all men
are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain
unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.That to secure these rights, governments are instituted
among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. . . .
27.Adopt rules that
provide for educator certification reciprocity. The rules for issuance of a
comparable reciprocal educator certificate shall include a requirement that the
applicant possess a comparable valid certification from another state and be in good standing with that other state.
An applicant who possesses a valid
certification from another state and a fingerprint clearance card pursuant to
section 15534 and who is in good standing with that other state shall be
issued a standard teaching certificate without any other requirements from the
state board of education or the department of education.A person
who is issued a certificate pursuant to this paragraph is not required to meet
any requirement prescribed in section 15532, 15533 or 15756.09
or as may be further prescribed by law.
28.Adopt rules that
provide for the presentation of an honorary high school diploma to a person who
has never obtained a high school diploma and who meets both of the following
requirements:
(a)Currently resides in this state.
(b)Provides documented evidence from the department
of veterans' services that the person enlisted in the armed forces of the
United States and served in World War I, World War II, the Korean conflict or
the Vietnam conflict.
29.Cooperate with the ArizonaMexico
commission in the governor's office and with researchers at universities in
this state to collect data and conduct projects in the United States and Mexico
on issues that are within the scope of the duties of the department of
education and that relate to quality of life, trade and economic development in
this state in a manner that will help the ArizonaMexico commission to
assess and enhance the economic competitiveness of this state and of the
ArizonaMexico region.
30.Adopt rules to define and provide guidance to
schools as to the activities that would constitute immoral or unprofessional
conduct of certificated persons.
31.Adopt guidelines to encourage pupils in grades
nine, ten, eleven and twelve to volunteer for twenty hours of community service
before graduation from high school.A school district that complies
with the guidelines adopted pursuant to this paragraph is not liable for
damages resulting from a pupil's participation in community service unless the
school district is found to have demonstrated wanton or reckless disregard for
the safety of the pupil and other participants in community service. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "community service" may include service
learning. The guidelines shall include the following:
(a)A list of the general categories in which
community service may be performed.
(b)A description of the methods by which community
service will be monitored.
(c)A consideration of risk assessment for community
service projects.
(d)Orientation and notification procedures of
community service opportunities for pupils entering grade nine, including the
development of a notification form.The notification form shall be
signed by the pupil and the pupil's parent or guardian, except that a pupil
shall not be required to participate in community service if the parent or
guardian notifies the principal of the pupil's school in writing that the
parent or guardian does not wish the pupil to participate in community service.
(e)Procedures for a pupil in grade nine to prepare
a written proposal that outlines the type of community service that the pupil
would like to perform and the goals that the pupil hopes to achieve as a result
of community service.The pupil's written proposal shall be reviewed
by a faculty advisor, a guidance counselor or any other school employee who is
designated as the community service program coordinator for that school. The
pupil may alter the written proposal at any time before performing community
service.
(f)Procedures for a faculty advisor, a guidance
counselor or any other school employee who is designated as the community
service program coordinator to evaluate and certify the completion of community
service performed by pupils.
32.To facilitate the transfer of military personnel
and their dependents to and from the public schools of this state, pursue, in
cooperation with the Arizona board of regents, reciprocity agreements with
other states concerning the transfer credits for military personnel and their
dependents.A reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to this
paragraph shall:
(a)Address procedures for each of the following:
(i)The transfer of student records.
(ii)Awarding credit for completed coursework.
(iii)Permitting a student to satisfy the graduation
requirements prescribed in section 15701.01 through the successful
performance on comparable exit-level assessment instruments administered in
another state.
(b)Include appropriate criteria developed by the
state board of education and the Arizona board of regents.
33.Adopt guidelines that school district governing
boards shall use in identifying pupils who are eligible for gifted programs and
in providing gifted education programs and services. The state board of
education shall adopt any other guidelines and rules that it deems necessary in
order to carry out the purposes of chapter 7, article 4.1 of this title.
34.For each of the alternative textbook formats of
human-voiced audio, large-print and braille, designate alternative media
producers to adapt existing standard print textbooks or to provide specialized
textbooks, or both, for pupils with disabilities in this state. Each
alternative media producer shall be capable of producing alternative textbooks
in all relevant subjects in at least one of the alternative textbook
formats.The board shall post the designated list of alternative
media producers on its website.
35.Adopt a list of approved professional development
training providers for use by school districts as provided in section 15107,
subsection J. The professional development training providers shall meet the
training curriculum requirements determined by the state board of education in
at least the areas of school finance, governance, employment, staffing,
inventory and human resources, internal controls and procurement.
36.Adopt rules to prohibit a person who violates
the notification requirements prescribed in section 15183, subsection C,
paragraph 8 or section 15550, subsection C from certification pursuant
to this title until the person is no longer charged or is acquitted of any
offenses listed in section 411758.03, subsection B.The board
shall also adopt rules to prohibit a person who violates the notification
requirements, certification surrender requirements or fingerprint clearance
card surrender requirements prescribed in section 15183, subsection C,
paragraph 9 or section 15550, subsection D from certification pursuant
to this title for at least ten years after the date of the violation.
37.Adopt rules for the alternative certification of
teachers of nontraditional foreign languages that allow for the passing of a
nationally accredited test to substitute for the education coursework required
for certification.
38.Adopt and maintain a model framework for a
teacher and principal evaluation instrument that includes quantitative data on
student academic progress that accounts for between thirtythree percent
and fifty percent of the evaluation outcomes.The framework shall
include four performance classifications, designated as highly effective,
effective, developing and ineffective, and guidelines for school districts and
charter schools to use in their evaluation instruments. The state board of
education shall adopt best practices for professional development and evaluator
training.The state board of education may periodically make
adjustments to align the model framework for teacher and principal evaluations
with assessment or data changes at the state level. School districts and
charter schools shall use an instrument that meets the data requirements
established by the state board of education to annually evaluate individual
teachers and principals.School districts and charter schools shall
adopt definitions for the performance classifications adopted by the state
board of education in a public meeting and apply the performance
classifications to their evaluation instruments in a manner designed to improve
principal and teacher performance.For charter holders, the
principal evaluation instrument applies to each charter school's instructional
leader whose primary responsibility is to oversee the academic performance of
the charter school.This paragraph does not apply to an officer,
director, member or partner of the charter holder.The school
district governing board shall discuss at a public meeting at least annually
its aggregate performance classifications of principals and teachers.
39.Adopt rules to define competencybased educational
pathways for college and career readiness that may be used by schools. The
rules shall include the following components:
(a)The establishment of learning outcomes that will
be expected for students in a particular subject.
(b)A process and criteria by which assessments may
be identified or established to determine if students have reached the desired
competencies in a particular subject.
(c)A mechanism to allow pupils in grades seven
through twelve who have demonstrated competency in a subject to immediately
obtain credit for the mastery of that subject. The rules shall include a list
of applicable subjects, including the level of competency required for each
subject.
40.In consultation with the department of health
services, the department of education, medical professionals, school health
professionals, school administrators and an organization that represents school
nurses in this state, adopt rules on or before January 1, 2014 that prescribe
the following for school districts and charter schools:
(a)Annual training in the administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine, as directed on the prescription protocol, for designated medical
and nonmedical school personnel.The annual training prescribed in
this subdivision is optional during any fiscal year in which sufficient monies
are not appropriated by the legislature during that fiscal year to provide for
the purchase of two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at each public school in this state and if the school does not
stock two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at the school during that fiscal year.
(b)Annual training for all school site personnel on
the recognition of anaphylactic shock symptoms and the procedures to follow
when anaphylactic shock occurs, following the national guidelines of the
American academy of pediatrics. The annual training prescribed in this
subdivision is optional during any fiscal year in which sufficient monies are
not appropriated by the legislature during that fiscal year to provide for the
purchase of two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at each public school in this state and if the school does not
stock two juvenile doses and two adult doses of autoinjectable
epinephrine at the school during that fiscal year.
(c)Procedures for the administration of autoinjectable
epinephrine in emergency situations, as directed on the prescription protocol.
(d)Procedures for annually requesting a standing
order for epinephrine autoinjectors pursuant to section 15157
from the chief medical officer of the department of health services, the chief
medical officer of a county health department, a doctor of medicine licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or a doctor of osteopathy licensed pursuant to
title 32, chapter17.
(e)Procedures for reporting the use of autoinjectable
epinephrine to the department of health services.
B.The state board of education may:
1.Contract.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Distribute and score the tests prescribed in
chapter 7, article 3 of this title.
4.Provide for an advisory committee to conduct
hearings and screenings to determine whether grounds exist to impose
disciplinary action against a certificated person, whether grounds exist to
reinstate a revoked or surrendered certificate and whether grounds exist to
approve or deny an initial application for certification or a request for
renewal of a certificate. The board may delegate its responsibility to conduct
hearings and screenings to its advisory committee.Hearings shall be
conducted pursuant to title 41, chapter 6, article 6.
5.Proceed with the disposal of any complaint
requesting disciplinary action or with any disciplinary action against a person
holding a certificate as prescribed in subsection A, paragraph 14 of this
section after the suspension or expiration of the certificate or surrender of
the certificate by the holder.
6.Assess costs and reasonable attorney fees against
a person who files a frivolous complaint or who files a complaint in bad
faith. Costs assessed pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed the expenses
incurred by the state board in the investigation of the complaint.
C.Any
certificate issued pursuant to subsection A of this section is deemed renewed
if the teacher applies for renewal of a standard teaching certificate and has
not received notice within three weeks after submitting the application for
renewal.
D.Pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 14,
subdivision (a) of this
section and section 15-552, teaching intern certifications shall be granted to
persons entering the practicum portion of an approved teacher preparation
program. Placement decisions shall be based on agreements between the teacher
preparation provider, the provider's partner organizations and the local
education agency. The practices of the Department of education and the rules
and policies of the state board of education may not restrict placement of
teaching intern certification holders based on local education agency instructional
models and may only consider the academic quality of the school, the
effectiveness of the teaching intern certification holder's onsite
mentor and the opportunity for a wide variety of schools and school models to
access teaching intern certification holders.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 15-533, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-533.Reciprocity; proficiency examination
A.To qualify for either a basic or standard
teaching certificate, or equivalent certificate later adopted by the state
board of education, a person must pass each component of the proficiency
examination developed and administered by the state board of education. The
proficiency examination shall consist of only a professional knowledge test and
a subject knowledge test. A person is not required to take the examination if
the person has passed a proficiency
examination adopted by a state agency in another state that is equivalent to
the state board of education. A person is not required to take the
professional knowledge portion of the examination if the person has been a fulltime
teacher for at least three years in that same area of certification in which
the person is applying for certification in this state possesses a comparable valid certification
from another state and is in good standing with that other state pursuant to
section 15203, subsection A, paragraph 27. A person is
not required to take the subject knowledge portion of the examination if the
person has obtained a master's degree in that subject area at an accredited
institution of higher education according to an official transcript issued from
the institution. A person who obtained structured English immersion training
in another state that the state board of education determines is comparable to
the structured English immersion training required in this state shall not be
required to obtain additional structured English immersion training in this
state. The state board of education may grant a basic or standard teaching
certificate for not more than three years to a teacher who has not met the
requirement of this section at the time of application.
B.A person is not required to pass the proficiency
examination or the equivalent examination more than once.The state
board of education may adopt rules to modify the requirements of subsection A
of this section for persons who have taught, obtained certification or obtained
a master's degree in another country. Notwithstanding any other law, a person
who has not taught during the ten years immediately preceding the submission of
the application for certification is required to repass the examination.
C.A person who is not required to pass the proficiency
examination developed and administered in this state by the state board of
education pursuant to subsection A or B of this section shall only be granted
reciprocity for those proficiency examinations required in this state that
pertain to the grade levels and content areas that the person is certified to
teach in another state. END_STATUTE

