







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; state seal of biliteracy







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1239









Introduced by
Senators
  Begay, Bradley, Dalessandro, Miranda, Pancrazi, Yee; Representatives Boyer,
  Carter, Rios: Senators Allen S, Barto, Burges, Farnsworth D, Griffin, Lesko,
  Shooter, Smith, Worsley; Representatives Benally, Borrelli, Gowan, Lawrence,
  Mitchell, Norgaard





AN ACT

amending Title
15, chapter 2, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 15-258;
relating to the superintendent of public instruction.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 2, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-258, to read:
START_STATUTE15-258.State seal of biliteracy program; requirements; diploma;
program termination
A.If
sufficient funding is provided for this purpose, the superintendent of public
instruction shall establish a state seal of biliteracy program to recognize
students who graduate from a school operated by a school district or a charter
school located in this state and who have attained a high level of proficiency
in one or more languages in addition to english.
B.The
superintendent of public instruction shall:
1.Create a
state seal of biliteracy that shall be affixed to the diploma and noted on the
transcript of a student to recognize that the student has met the requirements
prescribed in this section.
2.Deliver
the state seal of biliteracy to each public school district or charter school
that participates in the program.
C.Any
school district or charter school may voluntarily participate in the state seal
of biliteracy program by notifying the superintendent of public instruction of
the school district's or charter school's intent to participate in the program.
D.Each
school district governing board or charter school governing body that
participates in the state seal of biliteracy program shall:
1.Identify
the students who have met the requirements to be awarded the state seal of
biliteracy.
2.Affix the
state seal of biliteracy to the diploma and note the receipt of the state seal
of biliteracy on the transcript of each student who meets those requirements.
E.The state
board of education, in collaboration with the department of education, shall
adopt a list of assessments using researchedbased methodology to
determine a student's proficiency in a language other than English and may
adopt rules as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
F.A school
district or charter school that participates in the state seal of biliteracy
program established pursuant to this section shall award a student, on
graduation from high school, a high school diploma with a state seal of
biliteracy if the student meets all of the following requirements:
1.Successfully
completes all English language arts requirements for graduation with an overall
grade point average in those classes of 2.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale, or the
equivalent.
2.Passes
the endofcourse examinations in English language arts required
pursuant to section 15-755.
3.Demonstrates
proficiency in one or more languages other than English by meeting the requirements
adopted pursuant to subsection E of this section.
4.If the
student has a primary language other than English, obtains a score of
proficient or higher based on the English language proficiency standards,
pursuant to section 15-756.
G.The
program established pursuant to this section ends on July 1, 2026 pursuant to
section 413102. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

