







REFERENCE TITLE: unemployment insurance; eligibility;
  full-time students







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1261









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Dalessandro, Miranda, Quezada; Representative Andrade: Senator Hobbs





AN ACT

amending section
23771, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to unemployment benefits.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-771, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-771.Eligibility for benefits
A.An unemployed individual shall be eligible to
receive benefits with respect to any week only if the department finds that the
individual:
1.Has registered for work at and thereafter has
continued to report at an employment office in accordance with such pursuant to regulations as the department prescribes.
2.Has made a claim for benefits in accordance with pursuant to section 23772.
3.Is able to work.
4.Except for an individual who is applying for
shared work benefits pursuant to article 5.1 of this chapter, is available for
work and both of the following apply:
(a)The individual has engaged in a systematic and
sustained effort to obtain work during at least four days of the week.
(b)The individual has made at least three work
search contacts during the week.
5.Has been unemployed for a waiting period of one
week.A week shall not be counted as a week of unemployment for the
purpose of this paragraph:
(a)Unless it occurs within the benefit year that
includes the week with respect to which the individual claims payment of
benefits.
(b)Unless the individual was eligible for benefits with respect thereto as provided
in this section and sections 23775, 23776 and 23777.
(c)If benefits have been paid in respect thereto.
6.Has met one of the following requirements:
(a)Has been paid wages for insured work during the
individual's base period equal to at least one and onehalf times the
wages paid to the individual in the calendar quarter of the individual's base
period in which such wages were highest, and the individual has been paid wages
for insured work in one calendar quarter of the individual's base period equal
to an amount that is equal to at least three hundred ninety times the minimum
wage prescribed by section 23363 that is in effect when the individual
files a claim for benefits.
(b)Has for a benefit year beginning on or after
September 2, 1984, been paid wages for insured work during at least two
quarters of the individual's base period and the amount of such the
wages paid in one quarter would be sufficient to qualify the
individual for the maximum weekly benefit amount payable under this chapter and
the total of the individual's baseperiod wages is equal to or greater
than the taxable limit as specified in section 23622, subsection B,
paragraph 1.
7.Following the beginning date of a benefit year
established under this chapter or the unemployment compensation law of any
other state and prior to before the effective date of a
subsequent benefit year under this chapter, has performed services whether or
not in employment as defined in section 23615 for which wages were
payable in an amount equal to or in excess of eight times the weekly benefit
amount for which the individual is otherwise qualified under section 23779.In
making a determination under this paragraph, the department shall use information
available in its records or require the individual to furnish necessary
information within thirty days from after the date notice is given
that such information is
required.
B.If an unemployed individual cannot establish a
benefit year as defined in section 23609 due to receipt during the base
period of compensation for a temporary total disability pursuant to chapter 6
of this title, or any similar federal law, the individual's base period shall
be the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters immediately
preceding the first day of the calendar week in which the disability
began.Wages previously used to establish a benefit year may not be
reused.This subsection does not apply unless all of the following
occur:
1.The individual has filed a claim for benefits not
later than the fourth calendar week of unemployment after the end of the period
of disability.
2.The claim is filed within two years after the
period of disability begins.
3.The individual meets the requirements of
subsection A of this section.
4.The individual has attempted to return to the
employment where the temporary total disability occurred.
C.If an unemployed individual is a member of the
national guard or other reserve component of the United States armed forces,
the individual shall not be considered to be either employed or unavailable for
work by reason of the individual's participation in drill, training or other
national guard or reserve activity that occurs on not more than one weekend per
month or in lieu instead of a weekend drill or
the equivalent.
D.The department shall not disqualify an individual
from receiving benefits under this chapter on the basis of the individual's
separation from employment if the individual is a victim of domestic violence
and leaves employment due to a documented case involving domestic violence
pursuant to section 133601 or 133601.02. Benefits paid to an
individual pursuant to this subsection shall not be charged against an
employer's account pursuant to section 23727, subsection G.
E.The
department may not presume an individual is unavailable for work and disqualify
the individual from receiving benefits under this chapter on the basis of the
individual's status as a fulltime student.
E.f.For
the purposes of subsection A, paragraph 6 of this section, wages shall be
counted as "wages for insured work" for benefit purposes with respect
to any benefit year only if that benefit year begins subsequent to the date on
which the employing unit by which those wages were paid has become an employer
subject to this chapter. END_STATUTE

