







REFERENCE TITLE: aggressive solicitation; approaching
  stopped vehicle








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1285









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
13-2914, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to aggressive solicitation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2914, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2914.Aggressive solicitation; classification; definitions
A.It is unlawful for a person to solicit any money
or other thing of value or solicit the sale of goods or services:
1.Within fifteen feet of any bank entrance or exit
or any automated teller machine if the person does not have permission to be
there from the bank or the owner of the property on which the automated teller
machine is located.
2.In a public area by:
(a)Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly making
any physical contact with or touching another person in the course of the
solicitation without the person's consent.
(b)Approaching or following the person being
solicited in a manner that is intended or is likely to cause a reasonable
person to fear imminent bodily harm to oneself or another or damage to or loss
of property or that is reasonably likely to intimidate the person being
solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
(c)Continuing to solicit the person after the
person being solicited has clearly communicated a request that the solicitation
stop.
(d)Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly
obstructing the safe or free passage of the person being solicited or requiring
the person to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person
making the solicitation. This subdivision does not apply to acts that are
authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to picket or protest.
(e)Intentionally, knowingly or recklessly using
obscene or abusive language or gestures that are intended or likely to cause a
reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or that are reasonably likely to
intimidate the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the
solicitation.
(f)Approaching within ten feet of a
person who is in a vehicle that is stopped at a traffic control device except
if the driver of the vehicle grants the person permission to approach the
vehicle.
B.A violation of this section is a petty offense.
C.For the purposes of this section:
1."Automated teller machine" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 6101.
2."Bank" means a bank, credit union or
other similar financial institution.
3."Public
area" means an area that the public or a substantial group of persons has
access to and includes alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots,
parks, playgrounds, plazas, sidewalks and streets open to the general public,
and the doorways and entrances to buildings and dwellings and the grounds
enclosing them.
4."Solicit" means using any means of
communication, including by spoken, written or printed word, to request an
immediate donation or exchange of money or other thing of value from another
person regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the money or
other thing of value. END_STATUTE

