







REFERENCE TITLE: DUI; watercraft; medical practitioner;
  authorization







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1295









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs, Allen S





AN ACT

amending sections
5395 and 281381, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to driving
under the influence.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-395, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-395.Operating or in actual physical control of a motorized
watercraft while under the influence; violation; classification; definition
A.It is unlawful for any person to operate or be in
actual physical control of a motorized watercraft that is underway within this
state under any of the following circumstances:
1.While under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
any drug, a vapor releasing substance containing a toxic substance or any
combination of liquor, drugs or vapor releasing substances if the person is
impaired to the slightest degree.
2.If the person has an alcohol concentration of
0.08 or more within two hours of operating or being in actual physical control
of the motorized watercraft and the alcohol concentration results from alcohol
consumed either before or while operating or being in actual physical control
of the motorized watercraft.
3.While there is any drug as defined in section 133401
or its metabolite in the person's body.
4.If the motorized watercraft is a commercial
motorized watercraft and the person has an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or
more.
B.It is not a defense to a charge of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section that the person is or has been entitled
to use the drug under the laws of this state.
C.A person using a drug prescribed by a medical
practitioner who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 7, 11, 13
or 17 and who is
authorized to prescribe the drug is not guilty of violating
subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section.
D.The state shall not dismiss a charge of violating
this section for either of the following:
1.In return for a plea of guilty or no contest to
any other offense by the person charged with the violation of this section.
2.For the purpose of pursuing any other misdemeanor
or a petty offense, including those arising out of the same event or course of
conduct, unless there is clearly an insufficient legal or factual basis to
pursue the charge of violating this section.
E.In any prosecution for a violation of this
section the state, for the purpose of classification and sentencing pursuant to
section 5395.01 or 5396, shall allege all prior convictions of
violating this section occurring within the past eighty-four months, unless
there is clearly an insufficient legal or factual basis to do so.
F.In a trial, action or proceeding for a violation
of this section or section 5396 other than a trial, action or proceeding
involving operating or being in actual physical control of a commercial
motorized watercraft, the defendant's alcohol concentration within two hours of
the time of operating or being in actual physical control as shown by analysis
of the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance gives rise to the following
presumptions:
1.If there was at that time 0.05 or less alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was not under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
2.If there was at that time in excess of 0.05 but
less than 0.08 alcohol concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other
bodily substance, such fact shall not give rise to any presumption that the
defendant was or was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor, but such
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant.
3.If there was at that time 0.08 or more alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
G.Subsection F of this section shall not be
construed as limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing
on the question of whether or not the defendant was under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
H.If a blood test is administered, only a
physician, a registered nurse or another qualified person may withdraw blood
for the purpose of determining the alcohol concentration or drug
content.The qualifications of the individual withdrawing the blood
and the method used to withdraw the blood are not foundational prerequisites
for the admissibility of any blood alcohol content determination made pursuant
to this subsection.
I.If a law enforcement officer administers a
duplicate breath test and the person tested is given a reasonable opportunity
to arrange for an additional test pursuant to subsection J of this section, a
sample of the person's breath does not have to be collected or preserved.
J.The person tested shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to arrange for any physician, registered nurse or other qualified
person of the tested person's own choosing to administer a test or tests in
addition to any administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer.
The failure or inability to obtain an additional test by a person does not
preclude the admission of evidence relating to the test or tests taken at the
direction of a law enforcement officer.
K.If a person under arrest refuses to submit to a
test or tests under section 5395.03, whether or not a sample was
collected pursuant to subsection L of this section or a search warrant,
evidence of refusal is admissible in any civil or criminal action or other
proceeding.The issue of refusal shall be an issue of fact to be
determined by the trier of fact in all cases.
L.Notwithstanding any other law, if a law
enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a person has violated
this section and a sample of blood, urine or any other bodily substance is
taken from that person for any reason a portion of that sample sufficient for
analysis shall be provided to a law enforcement officer if requested for law
enforcement purposes. A person who fails to comply with this subsection is
guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
M.A person who collects blood, urine or any other
bodily substance under this section or any hospital, laboratory or clinic
employing or utilizing using the services of the
person does not incur any civil liability as a result of this activity if
requested by a law enforcement officer to collect blood, urine or any other
bodily substances unless the person, while performing the activity, acts with
gross negligence.
N.A statement by the defendant that the defendant
was operating a motorized watercraft that was underway and that was involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person is admissible in any
criminal proceeding without further proof of corpus delicti if it is otherwise
admissible.
O.At the arraignment, the court shall inform the
defendant that the defendant may request a trial by jury and that the request,
if made, shall be granted.
P.For the purposes of this section, "alcohol
concentration" means grams of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of blood
or grams of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of breath. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-1381, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-1381.Driving or actual physical control while under the
influence; trial by jury; presumptions; admissible evidence; sentencing;
classification
A.It is unlawful for a person to drive or be in
actual physical control of a vehicle in this state under any of the following
circumstances:
1.While under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
any drug, a vapor releasing substance containing a toxic substance or any
combination of liquor, drugs or vapor releasing substances if the person is
impaired to the slightest degree.
2.If the person has an alcohol concentration of
0.08 or more within two hours of driving or being in actual physical control of
the vehicle and the alcohol concentration results from alcohol consumed either
before or while driving or being in actual physical control of the vehicle.
3.While there is any drug defined in section 133401
or its metabolite in the person's body.
4.If the vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle that
requires a person to obtain a commercial driver license as defined in section 283001
and the person has an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or more.
B.It is not a defense to a charge of a violation of
subsection A, paragraph 1 of this section that the person is or has been
entitled to use the drug under the laws of this state.
C.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
D.A person using a drug as prescribed by a medical
practitioner who is licensed
pursuant to title 32, chapter 7, 11, 13
or 17 and who is
authorized to prescribe the drug is not guilty of violating
subsection A, paragraph 3 of this section.
E.In any prosecution for a violation of this
section, the state shall allege, for the purpose of classification and
sentencing pursuant to this section, all prior convictions of violating this
section, section 281382 or section 281383 occurring within the
past thirtysix months, unless there is an insufficient legal or factual
basis to do so.
F.At the arraignment, the court shall inform the
defendant that the defendant may request a trial by jury and that the request,
if made, shall be granted.
G.In a trial, action or proceeding for a violation
of this section or section 281383 other than a trial, action or
proceeding involving driving or being in actual physical control of a
commercial vehicle, the defendant's alcohol concentration within two hours of
the time of driving or being in actual physical control as shown by analysis of
the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance gives rise to the
following presumptions:
1.If there was at that time 0.05 or less alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was not under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
2.If there was at that time in excess of 0.05 but
less than 0.08 alcohol concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other
bodily substance, that fact shall not give rise to a presumption that the
defendant was or was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor, but that
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant.
3.If there was at that time 0.08 or more alcohol
concentration in the defendant's blood, breath or other bodily substance, it
may be presumed that the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
H.Subsection G of this section does not limit the
introduction of any other competent evidence bearing on the question of whether
or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
I.A person who is convicted of a violation of this
section:
1.Shall be sentenced to serve not less than ten
consecutive days in jail and is not eligible for probation or suspension of
execution of sentence unless the entire sentence is served.
2.Shall pay a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars.
3.May be ordered by a court to perform community
restitution.
4.Shall pay an additional assessment of five
hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the prison
construction and operations fund established by section 411651. This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction
occurred in the superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the
assessed monies to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a
municipal court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city
treasurer.The city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies
received to the state treasurer.
5.Shall pay an additional assessment of five
hundred dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in the public safety
equipment fund established by section 411723.This assessment
is not subject to any surcharge.If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer.The
city or county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state
treasurer.
6.Shall be required by the department, on report of
the conviction, to equip any motor vehicle the person operates with a certified
ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.In
addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twelve months
beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later.The person who
operates a motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this
paragraph shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
J.Notwithstanding subsection I, paragraph 1 of this
section, at the time of sentencing the judge may suspend all but one day of the
sentence if the person completes a court ordered alcohol or other drug
screening, education or treatment program. If the person fails to complete the
court ordered alcohol or other drug screening, education or treatment program
and has not been placed on probation, the court shall issue an order to show
cause to the defendant as to why the remaining jail sentence should not be
served.
K.If within a period of eighty-four months a person
is convicted of a second violation of this section or is convicted of a
violation of this section and has previously been convicted of a violation of
section 281382 or 281383 or an act in another jurisdiction that
if committed in this state would be a violation of this section or section 281382
or 281383, the person:
1.Shall be sentenced to serve not less than ninety
days in jail, thirty days of which shall be served consecutively, and is not
eligible for probation or suspension of execution of sentence unless the entire
sentence has been served.
2.Shall pay a fine of not less than five hundred
dollars.
3.Shall be ordered by a court to perform at least
thirty hours of community restitution.
4.Shall have the person's driving privilege revoked
for one year. The court shall report the conviction to the department. On
receipt of the report, the department shall revoke the person's driving
privilege and shall require the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device pursuant to section 283319.In
addition, the court may order the person to equip any motor vehicle the person
operates with a certified ignition interlock device for more than twelve months
beginning on the date of reinstatement of the person's driving privilege
following a suspension or revocation or on the date of the department's receipt
of the report of conviction, whichever occurs later. The person who operates a
motor vehicle with a certified ignition interlock device under this paragraph
shall comply with article 5 of this chapter.
5.Shall pay an additional assessment of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in
the prison construction and operations fund established by section 411651.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The city or
county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state treasurer.
6.Shall pay an additional assessment of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars to be deposited by the state treasurer in
the public safety equipment fund established by section 411723.This
assessment is not subject to any surcharge. If the conviction occurred in the
superior court or a justice court, the court shall transmit the assessed monies
to the county treasurer. If the conviction occurred in a municipal court, the
court shall transmit the assessed monies to the city treasurer. The city or
county treasurer shall transmit the monies received to the state treasurer.
L.Notwithstanding subsection K, paragraph 1 of this
section, at the time of sentencing, the judge may suspend all but thirty days
of the sentence if the person completes a court ordered alcohol or other drug
screening, education or treatment program. If the person fails to complete the
court ordered alcohol or other drug screening, education or treatment program
and has not been placed on probation, the court shall issue an order to show
cause as to why the remaining jail sentence should not be served.
M.In applying the eighty-four month provision of
subsection K of this section, the dates of the commission of the offense shall
be the determining factor, irrespective of the sequence in which the offenses
were committed.
N.A second violation for which a conviction occurs
as provided in this section shall not include a conviction for an offense
arising out of the same series of acts.
O.After completing forty-five days of the
revocation period prescribed by subsection K of this section, a person whose
driving privilege is revoked for a violation of this section and who is
sentenced pursuant to subsection K of this section is eligible for a special
ignition interlock restricted driver license pursuant to section 281401.
END_STATUTE

