







REFERENCE TITLE: parole reform study committee







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1277









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Sherwood; Representatives Andrade, Mendez, Velasquez: Espinoza,
  Fernandez





AN ACT

ESTABLISHING THE
parole reform STUDY COMMITTEE.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Parole reform study committee; membership; duties; report;
delayed repeal
A.The parole reform study committee is established
consisting of the following members:
1.Two members of the house of representatives who
are appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and who are
members of different political parties.
2.Two members of the senate who are appointed by
the president of the senate and who are members of different political
parties.
3.The attorney general or the attorney general's
designee.
4.The executive director of the board of executive
clemency or the director's designee.
5.One member who is an employee of the state
department of corrections, who has experience in time computation and who is
appointed by the director of the state department of corrections.
6.One prosecutor who is appointed by the governor.
7.One attorney who is in private practice, who
primarily handles criminal defense and who is appointed by the governor.
8.One public defender who is appointed by the
governor.
9.One parole officer who is appointed by the
governor.
10.One member who represents an entity that
provides recently released prisoners with transition services and who is
appointed by the governor.
11.One retired superior court judge who is
appointed by the governor.
12.One faculty member
from Arizona state university, the university of Arizona or northern Arizona
university who has expertise in law, criminology, sociology or another relevant
field and who is appointed by the governor.
13.One member who represents a prisoner advocacy
group and who is appointed by the governor.
B.The members of the committee shall select a
chairperson from among the members.
C.A majority of the members of the committee
constitutes a quorum.
D.The committee shall research and report on all
matters related to parole, including the impact of truth in sentencing laws on
sentences that were imposed on or after January 1, 1994, the number of
sentenced inmates who are eligible for release on parole at some point in time
and the process that is available to release a prisoner who is eligible for
parole.
E.The committee may:
1.Request
information, data and reports from any state agency or political subdivision of
this state. If possible, information shall be provided electronically.
2.Hold hearings, conduct fact-finding tours and
take testimony from witnesses, including participants in the criminal justice
system, who may assist the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
F.On the request of the committee, an agency of
this state shall provide to the committee its services, equipment, documents,
personnel and facilities to the extent possible without cost to the committee.
G.The legislature shall provide staff and support
services to the committee.
H.The committee shall meet at the state capitol or
at other places as the chairperson deems necessary or convenient, and all
meetings shall be open to the public.
I.Members of the committee are not eligible to
receive compensation but are eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
title 38, chapter 4, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes.
J.On or before June 30, 2017, the committee shall
submit a report regarding its findings and recommendations to the governor, the
speaker of the house of representatives and the president of the senate and
provide a copy of its report to the secretary of state.The report
shall include the committee's recommendations regarding parole reform.
K.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2017.

