







REFERENCE TITLE: common school districts; unification;
  budget







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1249









Introduced by
Senator
  Shooter





AN ACT

amending section
15951, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing Laws 2007, chapter 283,
section 6, as amended by Laws 2010, chapter 332, section 28; relating to school
finance.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-951, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-951.District additional assistance, district support level and
student count for a common school district not within a high school district
A.Notwithstanding section 15947, the revenue
control limit for a common school district not within a high school district is
the sum of the following:
1.The base revenue control limit computed as
prescribed in section 15944 but excluding pupils admitted to another
school district as provided in section 15824, subsection A, paragraph 2.
2.The tuition payable for high school pupils who
attend school in another school district as provided in section 15824,
subsection A, paragraph 2, including any transportation charge, except as
provided in subsection F of this section.
3.The transportation revenue control limit for all
pupils who reside in the district except those high school pupils transported
by another district.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, for
the purposes of sections 15481, 15482 and 151102, the
revenue control limit for a common school district not within a high school
district is the sum of the following:
1.The base revenue control limit for pupils
computed as prescribed in section 15944 but excluding pupils admitted to
another school district as provided in section 15824, subsection A,
paragraph 2.
2.The transportation revenue control limit for all
pupils who reside in the district except those high school pupils transported
by another district.
C.Notwithstanding section 15961, district
additional assistance for a common school district not within a high school
district is district additional assistance as prescribed in section 15961
but excluding pupils who are admitted to another school district as provided in
section 15824, subsection A, paragraph 2, except that if the school
district transports high school pupils, the district additional assistance
amount prescribed in section 15961 shall be increased by an amount equal
to fifty per cent percent of the district
additional assistance per pupil amount prescribed for the school district
pursuant to section 15961 multiplied by the number of high school pupils
transported.
D.Notwithstanding section 15947, the district
support level for a common school district not within a high school district is
the sum of the following:
1.The base support level computed as prescribed in
section 15943 but excluding pupils who are admitted to another school
district as provided in section 15824, subsection A, paragraph 2.
2.The tuition payable for high school pupils who
are admitted to another school district as provided in section 15824,
subsection A, paragraph 2, including any transportation charge, except as
provided in subsection F of this section.
3.The transportation support level for all pupils
who reside in the school district except those high school pupils transported
by another school district.
E.For the purpose of determining eligibility to
increase the revenue control limit and district support level or recompute the
revenue control limit as provided in section 15948, the student count
for a common school district not within a high school district is the student
count for pupils in kindergarten programs and grades one through twelve,
including pupils enrolled in another school district as provided in section 15824,
subsection A, paragraph 2.
F.The tuition amount in subsections A and D of this
section shall not include amounts per student count for bond issues as
prescribed by section 15824, subsection G, paragraph 1, subdivision (c)
in excess of the following:
1.One hundred fifty dollars if the pupil's school
district of residence pays tuition for seven hundred fifty or fewer pupils to
other school districts.
2.Two hundred dollars if the pupil's school
district of residence pays tuition for one thousand or fewer, but more than
seven hundred fifty pupils to other school districts.
3.The actual cost per student count if the pupil's
school district of residence pays tuition for more than one thousand pupils to
other school districts.
G.A common
school district that is not within the boundaries of a high school district and
that was authorized by the qualified electors to establish a unified school
district with boundaries coterminous with the boundaries of the common school
district in an election held before the effective date of this amendment to
this section may continue calculating its budget and equalization assistance
pursuant to this section until a high school is approved by the school
facilities board and constructed for the newly formed unified school district.
H.A newly
formed unified school district that meets the requirements of subsection G of
this section and that phases in instruction for pupils in grades nine through
twelve may continue calculating its budget and equalization assistance pursuant
to this section for a maximum of three years after the first year of the
operation of the new high school in the newly formed unified school district.
I.Notwithstanding
any other law, a school district may not retroactively adjust its budget for
any fiscal year pursuant to subsection G or H of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Laws 2007, chapter 283, section
6, as amended by Laws 2010, chapter 332, section 28, is repealed.
Sec.3.Emergency
This act is an emergency measure that is necessary to preserve
the public peace, health or safety and is operative immediately as provided by
law.

