







REFERENCE TITLE: schools; statewide achievement
  assessments; menu







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1321









Introduced by
Senator
  Allen S; Representatives Thorpe: Carter





AN ACT

AMENDING Title
15, chapter 7, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
15-741.02; relating to school statewide achievement assessments.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 15, chapter 7, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 15-741.02, to read:
START_STATUTE15-741.02.Menu of statewide achievement assessments; requirements;
rules
A.The state
board of education shall adopt a menu of statewide achievement assessments to
measure pupil achievement of the state academic standards.Beginning
in the 20172018 school year, each local education agency may select from
that menu a statewide achievement assessment to administer to the pupils in
that local education agency.
B.The test
to measure pupil achievement adopted by the state board of education pursuant
to section 15-741 shall be included on the menu of statewide achievement
assessments.Any other statewide achievement assessment that is
adopted by the state board of education for inclusion on the menu shall be a
high quality assessment.
C.A local
education agency that selects a statewide achievement assessment pursuant to
this section meets the requirements prescribed in section 15-741.
D.The state
board of education shall adopt rules and procedures to be administered by the
superintendent of public instruction pursuant to this section. Any rule or
procedure adopted pursuant to this subsection may not require a local education
agency to receive additional approval from the state board of education or the
department of education to select an assessment from the menu of assessments
pursuant to this section.
E.The
provider of a statewide achievement assessment that is proposed to be on the
menu of statewide achievement assessments shall do all of the following before
the assessment's adoption by the state board of education:
1.Provide
evidence that the assessment is a high quality assessment.
2.Demonstrate
that the assessment meets or exceeds the state board's adopted academic
standards.
3.Demonstrate
that the per pupil cost to administer the assessment is not more than the per
pupil cost to administer the test adopted pursuant to section 15741.
4.Submit an
evaluation from a third party approved by the state board of education that
shows the assessment meets the requirements prescribed in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3
of this subsection.
5.Agree to
share testing items with the department of education. END_STATUTE

