







REFERENCE TITLE: homebased businesses; detached
  buildings; storage







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1346









Introduced by
Senator
  Farnsworth D; Representative Townsend: Senators Donahue, Shooter; Representatives
  Allen J, Coleman, Gowan





AN ACT

Amending section
11820, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to homebased
businesses.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-820, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-820.Restriction on regulation; homebased businesses;
exception; definitions
A.Any ordinance authorized by this chapter shall
not restrict or otherwise regulate the owner of a home-based business that
holds a valid license from:
1.Making residential property improvements to add
doors, shelving or display racks for use by the home-based business.
2.Displaying a temporary commercial sign on the
residential property during business hours, if the sign is not more than twentyfour
inches by twentyfour inches.
3.Selling or offering for sale any goods.
4.Maintaining
operating hours that are from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
5.Constructing and using a detached building on
the private lot or parcel of land from which the homebased business is
operated, if all of the following apply:
(a)The
private lot or parcel of land from which the homebased business is
operated is at least one-half acre.
(b)The
detached building is not more than ten percent of the total area of the private
lot or parcel of land from which the homebased business is operated.
(c)The
detached building is used for storage, warehousing, light manufacturing or
other uses related to the homebased business.
6.Providing up to five thousand square feet of
outside storage on the private lot or parcel of land from which the homebased
business is operated, if both of the following apply:
(a)The
private lot or parcel of land from which the homebased business is
operated is at least one-half acre.
(b)The
storage area is blocked from public view by a block wall or similar barrier
that is at least six feet in height. 
7.Operating a wedding venue or wedding chapel as
a homebased business within a residential zoning district, if all of the
following apply:
(a)The
private lot or parcel of land from which the wedding venue or wedding chapel is
operated is at least five acres. 
(b)The
distance between the main building or structure of the wedding venue or wedding
chapel and an adjacent property is at least one hundred feet. 
(c)There
is at least an eight-foot-high barrier between the private lot or parcel of
land from which the wedding venue or wedding chapel is operated and any
adjacent residential property.
(d)The
maximum occupancy for the wedding venue or wedding chapel is not more than four
hundred persons, not including vendors or employees. 
(e)There
is adequate parking for guests, vendors and employees.
(f)The
wedding venue or wedding chapel is open not earlier than 10:00a.m. and
not later than 11:00 p.m. on any day of the week. 
(g)If
the wedding venue or wedding chapel contains outdoor event space, all outdoor
events conclude not later than 9:00 p.m. 
(h)The
sound equipment used at the wedding venue or wedding chapel complies with local
noise ordinances. 
(i)All
accessory buildings and shade structures located on the private lot or parcel
of land from which the wedding venue or wedding chapel is operated comply with
local ordinances.
B.This section does not preclude a county from
imposing reasonable operating requirements on a home-based business or a
residential property used by a home-based business.
C.If a
county requires a special use permit for the operation of a homebased
business, for special use permits issued from and after the effective date of
this amendment to this section, the county shall:
1.Approve
the special use permit in a residential zoning district if the homebased
business meets the following requirements:
(a)Has a proper barrier between the
private lot or parcel of land from which the homebased business is
operated and any adjacent residential property.
(b)Has adequate parking for
employees and patrons.
(c)Is located on a private lot or
parcel of land that is at least three acres. 
(d)Maintains a distance of at least
seventyfive feet between the main building or structure of the homebased
business and any adjacent residential property. 
2.Allow the
assembly of a large group of people under the permit.
3.Issue the
special use permit for a period of at least twenty years.
4.On
request of the permittee, renew the special use permit automatically for an
additional twenty years.
5.Process
and finalize all special use permits within ninety days after application.
C.D.For the purposes
of this section: 
1."Goods" means any merchandise,
equipment, products, supplies or materials.
2."Home-based business" means any
business for the limited manufacture, provision or sale of goods or services
that is owned and operated by the owner or tenant of the residential property.
3."License" means any permit,
certificate, approval, registration, charter or similar form of authorization
that is required by law and that is issued by any agency, department, board or
commission of this state or of any political subdivision of this state for the
purpose of operating a business in this state or to an individual who provides
a service to any person and the license is required to perform that service.
4.Light
manufacturing does not include industrial manufacturing. END_STATUTE

