







REFERENCE TITLE: firearm sales; transfers; background
  checks.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1339









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Velasquez: Fernandez





AN ACT

amending title 13,
chapter 31, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 13-3122; relating to
firearms.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
13, chapter 31, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-3122,
to read:
START_STATUTE13-3122.Licensed firearm dealer sales or transfers; background
checks; exceptions; classification
A.A person may not sell or transfer a firearm unless the
person is a licensed firearms dealer, the purchaser or transferee is a licensed
firearms dealer or a licensed firearms dealer facilitates the transfer pursuant
to subsection B of this section.
B.If neither party to a prospective firearms sale or transfer
is a licensed firearms dealer, the parties to the transaction shall complete
the sale or transfer through a licensed firearms dealer in the following
manner:
1.The seller or other transferor shall deliver the
firearm to the dealer who shall retain possession of the firearm until all
legal requirements for the sale or transfer have been met.The
dealer shall process the sale or transfer as if the dealer were the seller or
transferor. The dealer shall comply with all requirements of federal, state and
local law that would apply if the dealer was the seller or transferor of the
firearm.
2.The dealer shall conduct a background check on the
purchaser or transferee pursuant to 18 United States Code section 922(t) and state and
local law. If the transaction is not prohibited, the dealer shall deliver the
firearm to the purchaser or transferee after all other legal requirements are
met.
3.If the dealer cannot legally deliver the firearm to
the purchaser or transferee, the dealer shall conduct a background check on the
seller or transferor pursuant to 18 United States Code section 922(t) and, if the return
is not prohibited, return the firearm to that person.
4.If the dealer cannot legally return the firearm to the
seller or transferor, the dealer, within twenty-four hours, shall deliver the
firearm to the nearest law enforcement agency.
5.The dealer may require the purchaser or transferee to
pay a fee of not to exceed twenty dollars that covers the administrative costs
incurred by the dealer for facilitating the transfer of the firearm, including
any applicable fees pursuant to federal, state or local law.
C.This section does not apply to any of the following:
1.A law enforcement agency in this state, the state
department of corrections and any peace officer or corrections officer who is
acting within the course and scope of the officer's employment or official
duties.
2.A United States marshal, a member of the armed forces
of the United States or the national guard or a federal official transferring
or receiving a firearm as required in the operation of official duties.
3.A gunsmith who receives a firearm solely for the
purpose of service or repair.
4.A common carrier,
warehouseman or other person who is engaged in the business of transportation
or storage, to the extent that the receipt of any firearm is in the ordinary
course of business and not for personal use by the person.
5.A person who is loaned a firearm solely for the
purpose of target shooting if the loan occurs on the premises of a shooting
range and the firearm is at all times kept within the premises of the shooting
range.
6.A person who is under eighteen years of age, who is
loaned a firearm for lawful hunting or sporting purposes or for any other
lawful recreational activity and who is allowed to possess a firearm pursuant
to section 133111.
7.A person who is at least eighteen years of age and who
is loaned a firearm while the person is accompanying the lawful owner and using
the firearm for lawful hunting or sporting purposes or for any other lawful
recreational activity.
8.A person who is not a prohibited possessor and who
acquired the firearm by operation of law on the death of the former owner of
the firearm.
9.The sale or transfer of an antique firearm. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "antique firearm" means a firearm or
replica of a firearm not designed or redesigned for using rim fire or
conventional center fire ignition with fixed ammunition and manufactured in or
before 1898, including any matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap or similar type
of ignition system and also any firearm using fixed ammunition manufactured in
or before 1898, for which ammunition is no longer manufactured in the United
States and is not readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial
trade.
10.A firearm transfer that is a bona fide
gift between any combination of immediate family members. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "immediate family members" means spouses, domestic
partners, parents, children, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, nieces,
nephews, first cousins, aunts and uncles.
11.A temporary transfer of a firearm if
the transfer is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to the
person to whom the firearm is transferred and if both of the following apply:
(a)The
temporary transfer only lasts as long as immediately necessary to prevent the
imminent death or great bodily harm.
(b)The
person to whom the firearm is transferred is not prohibited from possessing a
firearm under state or federal law.
D.A person who violates this section is guilty of a
class 5 felony. END_STATUTE

