







REFERENCE TITLE: behavioral health; dependent children;
  reporting








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1326









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending Laws
2013, chapter 220, section 7; relating to behavioral health services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Laws 2013, chapter 220, section 7 is
amended to read:
Sec.7.Behavioral health services; accountability measures;
reports
A.Beginning on the last
day of the month following the effective date of this act through December 31, 2015 2018, the department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system administration
shall prepare and issue a quarterly financial and program accountability trends
report to the governor, the chairpersons of the house of representatives health
and reform and human services children and family affairs
committees, the chairperson of the senate health and human services committee,
the director of the joint legislative budget committee and the director of the
governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting. The department shall
provide a copy of each report to the secretary of state. The report shall use
the following accountability factors by geographic service areas for children
enrolled in the comprehensive medical and dental program:
1.The number and per cent percentage of children in the comprehensive
medical and dental program who have received behavioral health services,
excluding the original assessment, through a regional behavioral health
authority as of the end of each month. 
2.The number of new
behavioral health cases opened each month, the total number of cases that
remain open from the current and previous months and the total number of cases
that have been closed each month.
3.The type of
behavioral health services the children received and the costs of each of those
services.
4.The number of notices
of action received and for what reason and the outcome of those notices.
5.The number of notice
of appeals filed and for what reason, the outcomes of those appeals by the
administrative law judge and the final decisions reached by the director of the
Arizona health care cost containment system administration. 
B.Beginning on the last
day of the month following the effective date of this act through December 31, 2015 2018, the department of economic security
shall issue a quarterly financial and program accountability trend report to
the governor, the chairpersons of the house of representatives health and reform and human services children and family affairs
committees, the chairperson of the senate health and human services committee,
the director of the joint legislative budget committee and the director of the
governor's office of strategic planning and budgeting.The
department shall submit a copy of each report to the secretary of
state.Each report shall use the following accountability factors by
county:
1.The number and per cent percentage of children who are in foster care
and who are title XIX eligible as of the end of that month.
2.The number of new
title XIX eligible children opened in that month, the total number of children
that remain open from the current and previous months and the total number of
children who have been closed in that month.
3.The amount of
nontitle XIX expenditures by service type used by the department to supplement
the behavioral health services received through the regional behavioral health
authorities.
Sec.2.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to
from and after December 30, 2015.

