







REFERENCE TITLE: housing trust fund; funding sources







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1355









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

Amending sections
41-3955 and 42-1116, Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending title 43, chapter 4,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 43-404.01; amending
section 44-313, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the housing trust fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 41-3955, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-3955.Housing trust fund; purpose
A.The housing trust fund
is established, and the director shall administer the fund. The fund consists
of:
1.Monies from unclaimed property
deposited in the fund pursuant to section 44313. and

2.Withholding tax collections from nonresident
real estate sales pursuant to section 43-404.01.
3.Investment earnings.
B.On notice from the
department, the state treasurer shall invest and divest monies in the fund as
provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund.
C.Fund monies shall be
spent on approval of the department for developing projects and programs
connected with providing housing opportunities for low and moderate income
households and for housing affordability and Arizona housing finance authority
programs. Pursuant to section 44313, subsection A, a portion of fund
monies shall be used exclusively for housing in rural areas.
D.In approving the
expenditure of monies, the director shall give priority to funding projects
that provide for operating, constructing or renovating facilities for housing for
low income families and that provide housing and shelter to families that have
children.
E.The director shall
report annually to the legislature on the status of the housing trust fund.
The report shall include a summary of facilities for which funding was provided
during the preceding fiscal year and shall show the cost and geographic
location of each facility and the number of individuals benefiting from the
operation, construction or renovation of the facility. The report shall be
submitted to the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of
representatives no later than September 1 of each year.
F.Monies in the housing
trust fund are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations.
G.An amount not to exceed
ten per cent of the housing trust fund monies may be appropriated annually by
the legislature to the department for administrative costs in providing
services relating to the housing trust fund.
H.For any construction
project financed by the department pursuant to this section, the department
shall notify a city, town, county or tribal government that a project is
planned for its jurisdiction and, before proceeding, shall seek comment from
the governing body of the city, town, county or tribal government or an
official authorized by the governing body of the city, town, county or tribal
government.The department shall not interfere with or attempt to
override the local jurisdiction's planning, zoning or land use regulations. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-1116, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-1116.Disposition of tax revenues
A.The department of revenue shall promptly deposit, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, all monies it collects from the taxes
administered pursuant to this article except the telecommunication services
excise tax, separately accounting for each type of tax and each tax
classification within each type of tax.At the same time the
department of revenue shall also furnish copies of the transmittal schedules to
the director of the department of administration.
B.Except as provided by subsection C of this
section, the department shall deposit all monies and remittances received under
this section to the credit of the following specific funds and accounts:
1.Amounts sufficient to meet the requirements for
tax refunds to the tax refund account established in by section
421117.
2.Amounts sufficient to meet the requirements of
urban revenue sharing to the urban revenue sharing fund established in by section 43206.
3.Amounts collected pursuant to chapter 5, articles
1 and 5 of this title and section 425352, subsection A to the
transaction privilege and severance tax clearing account established by section
425029.
4.Through June 30, 2015 amounts sufficient to meet
the requirements of section 423104 to the corrections fund.
5.Amounts sufficient to meet the requirements of
section 49282, subsection B relating to the water quality assurance
revolving fund.
6.Amounts
collected pursuant to section 43-404.01 to the housing trust fund established
by section 41-3955.
6.7.All remaining
monies to the state general fund.
C.From the monies and remittances received under
this section, each month beginning July, 2001 the state treasurer shall
transmit to the tourism and sports authority, established by title 5, chapter
8, for deposit in its facility revenue clearing account established by section
5834 onetwelfth of the amount reported by the department pursuant
to section 43209. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 43, chapter 4, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 43-404.01, to read:
START_STATUTE43-404.01.Extension of withholding to real estate sales; nonresident
transfers; exceptions; penalties; definitions
A.Except as
otherwise provided in this section, in the case of any conveyance of an Arizona
real property interest, the title insurance company or subsidiary, the title
insurance agent or any financial institution or the attorney that provides
closing and settlement services shall withhold an amount equal to two percent
of the sales price of the Arizona real property interest conveyed or the net
proceeds resulting from the conveyance, whichever is less, if the transferor
is:
1.An
individual and either the return required to be filed with the secretary of the
treasury pursuant to section 6045(e) of the
internal revenue code indicates or the authorization for the disbursement of
the monies resulting from the transaction instructs that the monies be
disbursed to either:
(a)A
transferor with a last-known address outside the boundaries of this state at
the time of the transfer of the title to the Arizona real property interest.
(b)The
escrow agent of a transferor described in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
2.A
corporation that, immediately after the transfer of the title to the Arizona
real property interest, is a foreign corporation that does not qualify by law
to transact business in this state and does not maintain and staff a permanent
office in this state.
B.This
section does not apply to a conveyance of real property or interest if:
1.The sales
price of the Arizona real property interest conveyed does not exceed one
hundred thousand dollars.
2.The
transferee is a financial institution or corporate beneficiary under a
mortgage, or a beneficiary under a deed of trust, and the Arizona real property
interest is acquired in judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure or by a deed in
lieu of foreclosure.
3.The title
insurance company or subsidiary, title insurance agent or financial institution
or attorney relies on a written affirmation executed by the transferor
certifying one of the following under penalty of perjury:
(a)That the transferor is a resident of this state.
(b)That the transferor, if a corporation, has a permanent place
of business in this state.
(c)That the Arizona real property being conveyed is the primary
residence of the transferor for the purpose of classifying residential property
under section 42-12003 and 42-12053.
(d)That the transferor will not owe tax reasonably estimated to
be due under this title from the inclusion of the actual gain required to be
recognized on the transaction in the transferor's Arizona gross income, as
defined in section 43-1001 or 43-1101, as applicable.
C.The title
insurance company or other person or institution that is required to withhold
monies pursuant to subsection A of this section shall:
1.Report
and remit the amount to the department as provided by this article.
2.Submit
written affirmations executed pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 3 of this
section to the department in a manner prescribed by the department by rule.
D.Notwithstanding
section 43-401, the department shall separately account for monies collected
pursuant to this section for deposit pursuant to section 42-1116, subsection B,
paragraph 6 in the housing trust fund established by section 41-3955.
E.A title
insurance company or other person or institution that is required to withhold
and remit any monies pursuant to this section and fails to do so is liable for
the greater of the following amounts:
1.Five
hundred dollars.
2.Ten
percent of the amount required to be withheld pursuant to this section but not
more than two thousand five hundred dollars.
F.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Arizona
real property interest" means an interest in real property, including an
interest in a mine, well or other natural deposit, that is located in this
state.
2."Sales
price" means the sum of the following:
(a)The cash paid or to be paid for the conveyance of the
arizona real property interest, but does not include stated or unstated
interest or original issue discount as determined pursuant to sections 1271
through 1275 of the internal revenue code.
(b)The fair market value of other property transferred or to be
transferred in connection with the transaction.
(c)The
outstanding amount of any liability assumed by the transferee to which the
Arizona real property interest is subject immediately before and after the
transfer. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 44-313, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-313.Deposit of monies
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section or
section 44314, the department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in the state general fund all monies received pursuant to
this chapter, including the proceeds from the sale of abandoned property
pursuant to section 44312, except that:
1.Fifty-five
percent of the monies shall be deposited in the housing trust fund established
by section 41-3955.
1.2.After the deposit of monies
made pursuant to paragraph 1 of this subsection, the first two
million dollars of the monies shall be deposited each fiscal year in the
seriously mentally ill housing trust fund established by section 413955.01.
2.The second
two million five hundred thousand dollars of the monies shall be deposited in
the housing trust fund established by section 413955.
3.The next twentyfour million five hundred
thousand dollars of the monies shall be deposited each fiscal year in the
department of revenue administrative fund established by section 421116.01.
B.The department shall deposit monies from
unclaimed shares and dividends of any corporation incorporated under the laws
of this state in the permanent state school fund pursuant to article XI,
section 8, Constitution of Arizona.
C.The department shall deposit monies from
unclaimed victim restitution payments in the victim compensation and assistance
fund established by section 412407 for the purpose of establishing,
maintaining and supporting programs that compensate and assist victims of
crime.
D.The department shall retain in a separate trust
fund at least one hundred thousand dollars from which the department shall pay
claims.
E.Before making the deposit, the department shall
record the name and last known address of each person who appears from the
holders' reports to be entitled to the property and the name and last known
address of each insured person or annuitant and beneficiary.The
department shall also record the policy or contract number of each policy or
contract of an insurance company that is listed in the report, the name of the
company and the amount due. The department shall make the record available for
public inspection during reasonable business hours. END_STATUTE

