







REFERENCE TITLE: lobbyists; meals; annual limit







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1337









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Velasquez: Fernandez





AN ACT

amending section
41-1231, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to registration and regulation of
lobbyists.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
41-1231, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1231.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Authorized
lobbyist" means any person, other than a designated lobbyist or lobbyist
for compensation, who is employed by, retained by or representing a principal,
with or without compensation, for the purpose of lobbying and who is listed as
an authorized lobbyist by the principal in its registration pursuant to section
411232.
2."Authorized
public lobbyist" means a person, other than a designated public lobbyist,
who is employed by, retained by or representing a public body, with or without
compensation, for the purpose of lobbying and who is listed as an authorized
public lobbyist by the public body in its registration pursuant to section 411232.01.
3."Designated
lobbyist" means the person who is designated by a principal as the single
point of contact for the principal and who is listed as the designated lobbyist
by the principal in its registration pursuant to section 411232.
4."Designated
public lobbyist" means the person who is designated by a public body as
the single point of contact for the public body and who is listed as the
designated public lobbyist by the public body in its registration pursuant to section
411232.01.
5."Entertainment"
means the amount of any expenditure paid or incurred for admission to any
sporting or cultural event or for participation in any sporting or cultural
activity.
6."Expenditure"
means a payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or gift of money or
anything of value and includes a contract, promise or agreement, whether or not
legally enforceable, to make an expenditure that provides a benefit to an
individual state officer or state employee and that is incurred by or on behalf
of one or more principals, public bodies, lobbyists, designated public
lobbyists or authorized public lobbyists.
7."Family
gift" means a gift to a state officer or employee or a member of the
officer's or employee's household from a principal, a lobbyist, a designated public lobbyist or an authorized public
lobbyist who is a relative of the state officer or employee or a member of the
household of the state officer or employee if the donor is not acting as the
agent or intermediary for someone other than a person covered by this
paragraph.
8."Food or
beverage" means the amount of any expenditure paid or incurred for food or
beverages for a state officer or employee provided at a location at which the
principal, public body, lobbyist, designated public lobbyist or authorized
public lobbyist who made the expenditure is present.
9."Gift"
means a payment, distribution, expenditure, advance, deposit or donation of
money, any intangible personal property or any kind of tangible personal or
real property.For the purposes of this article, gift does not
include:
(a)A gift, devise or
inheritance from an individual's spouse, child, parent, grandparent,
grandchild, brother, sister, parentinlaw, brotherinlaw,
sisterinlaw, nephew, niece, aunt, uncle or first cousin or the
spouse of any such individual if the donor is not acting as the agent or
intermediary for someone other than a person covered by this subdivision.
(b)Expenditures that
are either properly reported or exempt from reporting under this chapter for:
(i)A speaking
engagement.
(ii)Food or beverages at a cost of no more than fifty
dollars in a calendar year.
(iii)Travel and
lodging.
(iv)Flowers.
(c)Salary, compensation
or employerreimbursed expenses lawfully paid to a public official.
(d)The value, cost or
price of professional or consulting services that are not rendered to obtain a
benefit for any registered principal, public body, lobbyist, designated public
lobbyist or authorized public lobbyist or the clients of a principal or
lobbyist.
(e)Expenses relating to
a special event or function to which all members of the legislature, either
house of the legislature or any committee of the legislature is invited.
(f)A plaque or other
form of recognition similar to a plaque to a state officer or state employee to
signify the honorary recognition of a service or other notable accomplishment.
(g)Informational
material such as books, reports, pamphlets, calendars or periodicals.
(h)An item that is not
used and that is returned within fifteen days of receipt to the donor or that
is delivered within fifteen days of receipt to a charitable organization and
that is not claimed as a charitable contribution for state or federal income
tax purposes.
(i)A campaign
contribution that is properly received and reported as required by law.
(j)An item that is
given to a state officer or employee if the state officer or employee gives an
item of approximately the same value to the giver of the item at the same time
that the item is given or on a similar occasion as the one that prompted the
original item to be given.
(k)Gifts of a personal
nature that were customarily received by an individual from the donor before
the individual became a state officer or employee.
(l)An item that is
given to the general public at an event.
10."Legislation"
means bills, resolutions, memorials, amendments, nominations and other matters
that are pending or proposed in either house of the legislature of this state.
11."Lobbying":
(a)Means attempting to
influence the passage or defeat of any legislation by directly communicating
with any legislator or attempting to influence any formal rulemaking proceeding
pursuant to chapter 6 of this title or rulemaking proceedings that are exempt
from chapter 6 of this title by directly communicating with any state officer
or employee.
(b)Includes, for a
person who is otherwise required to be registered as a lobbyist for
compensation pursuant to this article, attempting to influence the procurement
of materials, services or construction by an agency as defined in section 411001,
including the office of the governor.
(c)Does not include:
(i)Interagency
communications between state agency employees.
(ii)Communications
between a public official or employee of a public body, designated public
lobbyist or authorized public lobbyist and any state officer, except for a
member of the legislature, or an employee of the legislature.
(iii)Oral questions or
comments made by a person to a state officer or employee regarding a proposed
rule and made in public at a meeting or workshop that is open to the public and
that is sponsored by a state agency, board, commission, council or office.
(iv)Communications
between a public body and a selfemployed person or person employed by a
partnership or company regarding the procurement of materials, services or
construction unless the self-employed person or person employed by a
partnership or company is otherwise required to register pursuant to this
article or is employed by, supervised by at any level or contracted by a person
who is otherwise required to register as a lobbyist for compensation pursuant
to this article.
12."Lobbyist"
means any person, other than a designated public lobbyist or an authorized public lobbyist,
who is employed by, retained by or representing a person other than himself,
with or without compensation, for the purpose of lobbying and who is listed as
a lobbyist by the principal in its registration pursuant to section 411232.Lobbyist
includes a lobbyist for compensation, a designated lobbyist and an authorized lobbyist.
13."Lobbyist
for compensation" means a lobbyist who is compensated for the primary
purpose of lobbying on behalf of a principal and who is listed by the principal
in its registration pursuant to section 411232.
14."Person"
means an individual, partnership, committee, association or corporation and any
other organization or group of persons, except legislators and political
parties qualified for representation on the ballot pursuant to section 16801
or 16804.
15."Personal
hospitality" means hospitality, meals, beverages, transportation or
lodging furnished but not commercially provided by a person on property or
facilities owned or possessed by the person or the person's family.
16."Principal"
means any person, other than a public body, that employs, retains, engages or
uses, with or without compensation, a lobbyist. Principal includes any
subsidiary of a corporation.
17."Procurement"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 412503.
18."Public
body" means the Arizona board of regents, a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, the judicial department, any
state agency, board, commission or council, any county, any county elected
officer who elects to appoint a designated public lobbyist or any city, town,
district or other political subdivision of this state that receives and uses
tax revenues and that employs, retains, engages or uses, with or without
compensation, a designated public lobbyist or authorized public lobbyist.
19."Public
official" means a person who is duly elected, appointed or retained
through election to an elected state, county or local office.
20."Single
expenditure" means an expenditure that provides a benefit of more than
twenty dollars to an individual state officer or state employee and that is
incurred by or on behalf of one or more principals, public bodies, lobbyists,
designated public lobbyists or authorized public lobbyists.
21."Speaking
engagement":
(a)Means the amount of
any expense paid or incurred for entrance fees, lodging, food and beverage,
entertainment, travel and other expenses for the state officer's or employee's
attendance at an event, committee, meeting, conference or seminar, including
meetings of state, regional or national organizations or their committees
concerned with legislative or governmental activities if the state officer or
employee participates in the event as a speaker or panel participant by
presenting information relating to the state officer's or employee's
legislative or official duties or by performing a ceremonial function
appropriate to the state officer's or employee's position.
(b)Does not include
expenditures for an honorarium or any other similar fee paid to a speaker.
22."State
employee" means an employee of the legislature, a university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents, the judicial department or a
state office, agency, board, commission or council.
23."State
officer" means a person who is duly elected, appointed or retained through
election to any state office, or a member of any state board, commission or
council, and includes a member of the legislature. END_STATUTE

