








REFERENCE TITLE: vehicle certificates of title







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1357









Introduced by
Senator
  Worsley; Representatives Fann, Gray





AN ACT

amending sections
28-101, 28-370, 28-2008, 28-2009, 28-2011, 28-2012, 282013, 28-2051,
28-2052, 28-2053, 29-2055, 28-2058, 28-2059, 28-2060, 282061, 28-2063,
28-2064, 28-2065, 28-2091, 28-2094, 28-2095, 28-2097, 282131, 28-2132,
28-2133, 28-2134, 28-2135, 28-2136, 28-2137, 28-2162, 282165, 28-3511,
28-3512, 28-3514, 28-4335, 28-4361, 28-4403, 28-4409, 284410, 28-4412,
28-4421, 28-4423, 28-4533, 28-4547, 28-4594, 28-5101, 285111 and
47-9311, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to vehicle titles.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-101.Definitions
In this title, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Alcohol"
means any substance containing any form of alcohol, including ethanol,
methanol, propynol and isopropynol.
2."Alcohol
concentration" if expressed as a percentage means either:
(a)The number of grams
of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of blood.
(b)The number of grams
of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of breath.
3."Allterrain
vehicle" means either of the following:
(a)A motor vehicle that
satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel.
(ii)Is fifty or fewer
inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand two hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on three or
more nonhighway tires.
(v)Is operated on a
public highway.
(b)A recreational
off-highway vehicle that satisfies all of the following:
(i)Is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway all-terrain travel.
(ii)Is sixtyfive
or fewer inches in width.
(iii)Has an unladen
weight of one thousand eight hundred pounds or less.
(iv)Travels on four or
more nonhighway tires.
4."Authorized
emergency vehicle" means any of the following:
(a)A fire department
vehicle.
(b)A police vehicle.
(c)An ambulance or
emergency vehicle of a municipal department or public service corporation that
is designated or authorized by the department or a local authority.
(d)Any other ambulance,
fire truck or rescue vehicle that is authorized by the department in its sole
discretion and that meets liability insurance requirements prescribed by the
department.
5."Autocycle"
means a threewheeled motorcycle on which the driver and passengers ride
in a completely enclosed seating area that is equipped with a roll cage, safety
belts for each occupant and antilock brakes and that is designed to be
controlled with a steering wheel and pedals.
6."Aviation
fuel" means all flammable liquids composed of a mixture of selected
hydrocarbons expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively
and efficiently operating an internal combustion engine for use in an aircraft
but does not include fuel for jet or turbine powered aircraft.
7."Bicycle"
means a device, including a racing wheelchair, that is propelled by human power
and on which a person may ride and that has either:
(a)Two tandem wheels,
either of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
(b)Three wheels in
contact with the ground, any of which is more than sixteen inches in diameter.
8."Board" means the transportation board.
9."Bus" means
a motor vehicle designed for carrying sixteen or more passengers, including the
driver.
10."Business
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway if
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes within any six
hundred feet along the highway, including hotels, banks or office buildings,
railroad stations and public buildings that occupy at least three hundred feet
of frontage on one side or three hundred feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
11."Certificate of ownership" means a
paper or an electronic record that is issued in another state or a foreign
jurisdiction and that indicates ownership of a vehicle.
12."Certificate of title" means a
paper document or an electronic record that is issued by the department and
that indicates ownership of a vehicle.
11.13."Combination
of vehicles" means a truck or truck tractor and semitrailer and any
trailer that it tows but does not include a forklift designed for the purpose
of loading or unloading the truck, trailer or semitrailer.
12.14."Controlled
substance" means a substance so classified under section 102(6) of the
controlled substances act (21 United States Code section 802(6)) and includes
all substances listed in schedules I through V of 21 Code of Federal
Regulations part 1308.
13.15."Conviction"
means:
(a)An
unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a person violated or
failed to comply with the law in a court of original jurisdiction or by an
authorized administrative tribunal.
(b)An unvacated
forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person's appearance in
court.
(c)A plea of guilty or
no contest accepted by the court.
(d)The payment of a
fine or court costs.
14.16."County
highway" means a public road that is constructed and maintained by a
county.
15.17."Dealer"
means a person who is engaged in the business of buying, selling or exchanging
motor vehicles, trailers or semitrailers and who has an established place of
business.
16.18."Department"
means the department of transportation acting directly or through its duly
authorized officers and agents.
17.19."Digital
network or software application" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 289551.
18.20."Director"
means the director of the department of transportation.
19.21."Drive"
means to operate or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
20.22."Driver"
means a person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
21.23."Driver
license" means a license that is issued by a state to an individual and that
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle.
22.24."Electric
personal assistive mobility device" means a selfbalancing two
nontandem wheeled device with an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed of the device to fifteen miles per hour or less and that is
designed to transport only one person.
23.25."Farm"
means any lands primarily used for agriculture production.
24.26."Farm
tractor" means a motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing implements of husbandry.
25.27."Foreign
vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer that is brought
into this state other than in the ordinary course of business by or through a
manufacturer or dealer and that has not been registered in this state.
26.28."Golf
cart" means a motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact
with the ground, that has an unladen weight of less than one thousand eight
hundred pounds, that is designed to be and is operated at not more than twentyfive
miles per hour and that is designed to carry not more than four persons
including the driver.
27.29."Hazardous
material" means a material, and its mixtures or solutions, that the United
States department of transportation determines under 49 Code of Federal
Regulations is, or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
under 42 Code of Federal Regulations part 73 that is, capable of posing an
unreasonable risk to health, safety and property if transported in commerce and
that is required to be placarded or marked as required by the department's
safety rules prescribed pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
28.30."Implement
of husbandry" means a vehicle designed primarily for agricultural purposes
and used exclusively in the conduct of agricultural operations, including an
implement or vehicle whether selfpropelled or otherwise that meets both
of the following conditions:
(a)Is used solely for
agricultural purposes including the preparation or harvesting of cotton,
alfalfa, grains and other farm crops.
(b)Is only incidentally
operated or moved on a highway whether as a trailer or selfpropelled
unit.For the purposes of this subdivision, "incidentally
operated or moved on a highway" means travel between a farm and another
part of the same farm, from one farm to another farm or between a farm and a
place of repair, supply or storage.
29.31."Limousine"
means a motor vehicle providing prearranged ground transportation service for
an individual passenger, or a group of passengers, that is arranged in advance
or is operated on a regular route or between specified points and includes
ground transportation under a contract or agreement for services that includes
a fixed rate or time and is provided in a motor vehicle with a seating capacity
not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
30.32."Livery
vehicle" means a motor vehicle that:
(a)Has a seating
capacity not exceeding fifteen passengers including the driver.
(b)Provides passenger
services for a fare determined by a flat rate or flat hourly rate between
geographic zones or within a geographic area.
(c)Is available for
hire on an exclusive or shared ride basis.
(d)May do any of the
following:
(i)Operate on a regular
route or between specified places.
(ii)Offer prearranged
ground transportation service as defined in section 28141.
(iii)Offer on demand
ground transportation service pursuant to a contract with a public airport,
licensed business entity or organization.
31.33."Local
authority" means any county, municipal or other local board or body
exercising jurisdiction over highways under the constitution and laws of this
state.
32.34."Manufacturer"
means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing motor vehicles,
trailers or semitrailers.
33.35."Moped"
means a bicycle that is equipped with a helper motor if the vehicle has a
maximum piston displacement of fifty cubic centimeters or less, a brake
horsepower of one and onehalf or less and a maximum speed of twentyfive
miles per hour or less on a flat surface with less than a one percent grade.
34.36."Motor
driven cycle" means a motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a
motor that produces not more than five horsepower.
35.37."Motor
vehicle":
(a)Means either:
(i)A selfpropelled
vehicle.
(ii)For the purposes of
the laws relating to the imposition of a tax on motor vehicle fuel, a vehicle
that is operated on the highways of this state and that is propelled by the use
of motor vehicle fuel.
(b)Does not include a
motorized wheelchair, an electric personal assistive mobility device or a
motorized skateboard. For the purposes of this subdivision:
(i)"Motorized
skateboard" means a selfpropelled device that has a motor, a deck
on which a person may ride and at least two tandem wheels in contact with the
ground.
(ii)"Motorized
wheelchair" means a selfpropelled wheelchair that is used by a
person for mobility.
36.38."Motor
vehicle fuel" includes all products that are commonly or commercially
known or sold as gasoline, including casinghead gasoline, natural gasoline and
all flammable liquids, and that are composed of a mixture of selected
hydrocarbons expressly manufactured and blended for the purpose of effectively
and efficiently operating internal combustion engines. Motor vehicle fuel does
not include inflammable liquids that are specifically manufactured for racing
motor vehicles and that are distributed for and used by racing motor vehicles
at a racetrack, use fuel as defined in section 285601, aviation fuel,
fuel for jet or turbine powered aircraft or the mixture created at the
interface of two different substances being transported through a pipeline,
commonly known as transmix.
37.39."Motorcycle"
means a motor vehicle that has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
that is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground but excludes a tractor and a moped.
38.40."Motorized
quadricycle" means a self-propelled motor vehicle to which all of the
following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
self-propelled by an emission-free electric motor and may include pedals
operated by the passengers.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle seats at
least eight passengers, including the driver.
(d)The vehicle is
operable on a flat surface using solely the electric motor without assistance
from the pedals or passengers.
(e)The vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle as defined in section 285201.
(f)The vehicle is
licensed by the department of weights and
measures to operate as a limousine pursuant to section 289503.
(g)The vehicle is
manufactured by a motor vehicle manufacturer that is licensed pursuant to
chapter 10 of this title.
(h)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for lowspeed vehicles set forth in
federal motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations section sections 571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
39.41."Neighborhood
electric vehicle" means a selfpropelled electrically powered motor
vehicle to which all of the following apply:
(a)The vehicle is
emission free.
(b)The vehicle has at
least four wheels in contact with the ground.
(c)The vehicle complies
with the definition and standards for low speed vehicles set forth in federal
motor vehicle safety standard 500 and 49 Code of Federal Regulations sections
571.3(b) and 571.500, respectively.
40.42."Nonresident"
means a person who is not a resident of this state as defined in section 282001.
41.43."Offroad
recreational motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is designed
primarily for recreational nonhighway allterrain travel and that is not
operated on a public highway.Offroad recreational motor
vehicle does not mean a motor vehicle used for construction, building trade, mining
or agricultural purposes.
42.44."Operator"
means a person who drives a motor vehicle on a highway, who is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle on a highway or who is exercising control
over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
43.45."Owner"
means:
(a)A person who holds
the legal title of a vehicle.
(b)If a vehicle is the
subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease with the right of
purchase on performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an
immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, the
conditional vendee or lessee.
(c)If a mortgagor of a
vehicle is entitled to possession of the vehicle, the mortgagor.
44.46."Pedestrian"
means any person afoot.A person who uses an electric personal
assistive mobility device or a manual or motorized wheelchair is considered a
pedestrian unless the manual wheelchair qualifies as a bicycle.For
the purposes of this paragraph, "motorized wheelchair" means a selfpropelled
wheelchair that is used by a person for mobility.
45.47."Power
sweeper" means an implement, with or without motive power, that is only
incidentally operated or moved on a street or highway and that is designed for
the removal of debris, dirt, gravel, litter or sand whether by broom, vacuum or
regenerative air system from asphaltic concrete or cement concrete surfaces,
including parking lots, highways, streets and warehouses, and a vehicle on
which the implement is permanently mounted.
46.48."Public
transit" means the transportation of passengers on scheduled routes by
means of a conveyance on an individual passenger farepaying basis
excluding transportation by a sightseeing bus, school bus or taxi or a vehicle
not operated on a scheduled route basis.
47.49."Reconstructed
vehicle" means a vehicle that has been assembled or constructed largely by
means of essential parts, new or used, derived from vehicles or makes of
vehicles of various names, models and types or that, if originally otherwise
constructed, has been materially altered by the removal of essential parts or
by the addition or substitution of essential parts, new or used, derived from
other vehicles or makes of vehicles.For the purposes of this
paragraph, "essential parts" means integral and body parts, the
removal, alteration or substitution of which will tend to conceal the identity
or substantially alter the appearance of the vehicle.
48.50."Residence
district" means the territory contiguous to and including a highway not comprising
a business district if the property on the highway for a distance of three
hundred feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
49.51."Rightofway"
when used within the context of the regulation of the movement of traffic on a
highway means the privilege of the immediate use of the
highway.Rightofway when used within the context of
the real property on which transportation facilities and appurtenances to the
facilities are constructed or maintained means the lands or interest in lands
within the rightofway boundaries.
50.52."School
bus" means a motor vehicle that is designed for carrying more than ten
passengers and that is either:
(a)Owned by any public
or governmental agency or other institution and operated for the transportation
of children to or from home or school on a regularly scheduled basis.
(b)Privately owned and
operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or from home or
school on a regularly scheduled basis.
51.53."Semitrailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that some part of its weight and
that of its load rests on or is carried by another vehicle. For the purposes
of this paragraph, "pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 28601.
52.54."State"
means a state of the United States and the District of Columbia.
53.55."State
highway" means a state route or portion of a state route that is accepted
and designated by the board as a state highway and that is maintained by the
state.
54.56."State
route" means a rightofway whether actually used as a highway
or not that is designated by the board as a location for the construction of a
state highway.
55.57."Street"
or "highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way if a part of the way is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
56.58."Taxi"
means a motor vehicle that has a seating capacity not exceeding fifteen
passengers, including the driver, that is registered as a taxi in this state or
any other state, that provides passenger services and that:
(a)Does not primarily
operate on a regular route or between specified places.
(b)Offers local
transportation for a fare determined on the basis of the distance traveled or
prearranged ground transportation service as defined in section 28141
for a predetermined fare.
59."Title transfer form" means a paper
or an electronic form that is prescribed by the department for the purpose of
transferring a certificate of title from one owner to another owner.
57.60."Traffic
survival school" means a school that offers educational sessions to
drivers who are required to attend and successfully complete educational
sessions pursuant to this title that are designed to improve the safety and
habits of drivers and that are approved by the department.
58.61."Trailer"
means a vehicle that is with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, that is designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn
by a motor vehicle and that is constructed so that no part of its weight rests
on the towing vehicle. A semitrailer equipped with an auxiliary front axle
commonly known as a dolly is deemed to be a trailer. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "pole trailer" has the same meaning prescribed in section
28601.
59.62."Transportation
network company" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
60.63."Transportation
network company vehicle" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
61.64."Transportation
network service" has the same meaning prescribed in section 289551.
62.65."Truck"
means a motor vehicle designed or used primarily for the carrying of property
other than the effects of the driver or passengers and includes a motor vehicle
to which has been added a box, a platform or other equipment for such carrying.
63.66."Truck
tractor" means a motor vehicle that is designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and that is not constructed to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load drawn.
64.67."Vehicle"
means a device in, on or by which a person or property is or may be transported
or drawn on a public highway, excluding devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
65.68."Vehicle
transporter" means either:
(a)A
truck tractor capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer.
(b)A
truck tractor with a stingersteered fifth wheel capable of carrying a
load and drawing a semitrailer or a truck tractor with a dolly mounted fifth
wheel that is securely fastened to the truck tractor at two or more points and
that is capable of carrying a load and drawing a semitrailer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-370, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-370.Oaths and acknowledgments; power of attorney; definition
A.The director and officers, agents and employees
of the department the director designates may administer oaths and acknowledge
signatures, without a fee, in any matter connected with the administration of a
law the enforcement of which is vested in the director.
B.Notwithstanding title 14, chapter 5, article 5:
1.The director or an officer, agent or employee of
the department designated by the director may witness a power of attorney to be
used solely in the performance of vehicle title and registration activities.
2.For the purposes of executing a power of attorney
in the performance of vehicle title and registration activities, the power of
attorney is not required to be:
(a)Notarized if it is witnessed by the director or
an officer, agent or employee of the department designated by the director.
(b)Notarized if it is involving a
total loss vehicle settlement and an insurance company that is licensed
pursuant to title 20 submits it electronically to the department in a manner
approved by the director.
(b)(c)Witnessed if it is notarized.
C.For the purposes of this section,
"agent" includes a motor vehicle dealer, a title service company or any other or a third party authorized
pursuant to this title.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-2008, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2008.Duplicate certificate of title, permit, registration card
or license plates
A.If
a certificate of title,
permit, registration card or license plate is lost or mutilated or becomes
illegible, the person entitled to the certificate,
permit, card or plate shall immediately apply for and obtain a duplicate or
substitute certificate,
permit, card or plate by furnishing information satisfactory to the department.
B.If a paper certificate of title is
lost or mutilated or becomes illegible, the person entitled to the certificate of
title may apply for a duplicate or substitute certificate of title by
furnishing information satisfactory to the department. The department may
implement procedures related to the issuance of a duplicate paper certificate
of title. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 28-2009, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2009.Certificate of title; validity
The certificate of title is valid for the life of the vehicle
as long as the vehicle is owned by the original holder of the title, unless it
has been replaced by a duplicate
certificate of title pursuant to section 282008.END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 28-2011, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2011.Vehicle inspections
A.The department may conduct the following levels
of motor vehicle inspections:
1.Level one.A level one inspection
consists of matching the public vehicle identification number and a secondary
vehicle identification number to the vehicle ownership documents to determine
the identity of the vehicle.
2.Level two.A level two inspection
consists of matching the public vehicle identification number, a secondary
vehicle identification number and the confidential vehicle identification
number to the vehicle ownership documents to determine the identity of the
vehicle.
3.Level three.A level three inspection
consists of a level two inspection plus verification of vehicle identification
numbers on, at the discretion of the inspector, some or all component parts to
determine the identity of the vehicle and that the vehicle is properly equipped
for highway use.
B.A person who submits a motor vehicle to the
department for inspection shall pay the following fees:
1.For a level two inspection, twenty dollars.
2.For a level three inspection, fifty dollars.
C.The department shall deposit the inspection fees
in the vehicle inspection and certificate
of title enforcement fund established by section 282012.
D.An inspection fee is not required for an
inspection of a motor vehicle owned by a foreign government, by a consul or any
other representative of a foreign government, by the United States, by a state
or political subdivision of a state or by an Indian tribal government.END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 28-2012, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2012.Vehicle inspection and certificate of title enforcement
fund
A.A The vehicle inspection and certificate of title
enforcement fund is established consisting of monies deposited pursuant to
sections 282011 and 282013 and section 282095, subsection
G.
B.Monies in the vehicle inspection and certificate of title
enforcement fund are subject to legislative appropriation to the department to
be used by the department to defray the cost of investigations involving
certificates of title, licensing fraud, registration enforcement and automobile
theft related issues.
C.The vehicle inspection and certificate of title enforcement fund is
exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to lapsing of
appropriations.END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 28-2013, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2013.Disposition of property; deposit of proceeds
A.The department may receive monies from any
department or agency of the United States, this state or any political
subdivision of this state,
and may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all property seized and
forfeited to the state, or otherwise awarded to the department, as a result of
any investigation.
B.The department shall deposit, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, any proceeds resulting from subsection
A of this section, except an investigation or prosecution conducted pursuant to
article 3 of this chapter, in the vehicle inspection and certificate of title enforcement fund
established by section 282012.END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 28-2051, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2051.Application for certificate of title; vision screening
test
A.A person shall apply to the department on a form
prescribed or authorized by the department for a certificate of title to a
motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer. The person shall make the application
within fifteen days after the purchase or transfer of the vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer except that a licensed motor vehicle dealer shall make the
application within thirty days after the purchase or transfer.All
transferees shall sign the application, except that one transferee may sign the
application if both of the following apply:
1.The application is for the purposes of converting
an outofstate certificate of title to a certificate of title
issued pursuant to this article.
2.The ownership or legal status of the motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer does not change.
B.The application shall contain:
1.The transferee's full name and either the driver
license number of the transferee or a number assigned by the department.
2.The transferee's complete residence address.
3.A brief description of the vehicle to be titled issued a certificate of title.
4.The name of the manufacturer of the vehicle.
5.The serial number of the vehicle.
6.The last license plate number if applicable and
if known and the state in which the license plate number was issued.
7.If the application is for a certificate of title
to a new vehicle, the date of sale by the manufacturer or dealer to the person
first operating the vehicle.
8.If the application is in the name of a lessor:
(a)The lessor shown on the application as the owner
or transferee.
(b)At the option of the lessor, the lessee shown on
the application as the registrant.
(c)The address of either the lessor or lessee.
(d)The signature of the lessor.
9.If the application is for a certificate of title
to a specially constructed, reconstructed or foreign vehicle, a statement of
that fact. For the purposes of this paragraph, "specially constructed
vehicle" means a vehicle not originally constructed under a distinctive
name, make, model or type by a generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles.
10.If an applicant rents or intends to rent the
vehicle without a driver, a statement of that fact.
11.Other information required by the department.
C.Unless subsection B, paragraph 8 of this section
applies, on request of an applicant, the department shall allow the applicant
to provide on the certificate of title
of a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer a post office box address that is
regularly used by the applicant.
D.A person shall submit the following information
with an application for a certificate of title:
1.To a vehicle previously registered:
(a)The odometer mileage disclosure statement
prescribed by section 282058.
(b)If the applicant is applying for a certificate of title pursuant to section 282060,
the applicant's statement of the odometer reading as of the date of
application.
2.To a new vehicle:
(a)A manufacturer's
certificate or electronic
title from the manufacturer of origin showing the date of sale to the dealer or person
first receiving the vehicle from the manufacturer. Before the department
issues a certificate of title to a new vehicle, a manufacturer's certificate or electronic title from the manufacturer of origin shall be surrendered
to the department.
(b)The name of the dealer or person.
(c)A description sufficient to identify the
vehicle.
(d)A statement certifying that the vehicle was new
when sold.
(e)If sold through a dealer, a statement by the
dealer certifying that the vehicle was new when sold to the applicant.
E.The department may request that an applicant who
appears in person for a certificate of title of a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer satisfactorily complete the vision screening test prescribed by the
department. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 28-2052, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2052.Title and registration of foreign vehicles
A.Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the owner of a foreign vehicle that has been registered in another
state or country and for which an application for a certificate of title is
made shall surrender to the department the license plates assigned to the
vehicle, the registration card, the
certificate of title, the certificate of ownership or other
evidence of foreign registration and satisfactory evidence of ownership showing
that the applicant is the lawful owner or possessor of the vehicle.
B.If in the course of interstate operation of a
vehicle registered in another state or country it is desirable to retain
registration of the vehicle in the other state or country, the applicant need
not follow the requirements of subsection A of this section but shall submit
evidence of the foreign registration and ownership for inspection. The
department shall register the vehicle on a proper showing of evidence of
registration but shall not issue a certificate of title for the vehicle.
C.The department shall
may inspect a foreign vehicle before titling
issuing a certificate of title or before registration, including examination and
inspection to establish compliance with section 28955, under conditions
and standards as required by the director of environmental quality. The
department may establish procedures to accept vehicle inspections completed in
another state.
D.Before the department issues a certificate of
title to a vehicle imported into this country, the owner shall obtain a
certificate of compliance that states that the vehicle meets all federal
vehicle equipment and emissions equipment requirements. This subsection does
not apply to a golf cart manufactured or modified before June 17, 1998 or
neighborhood electric vehicle manufactured or modified before June 17, 1998.
E.The department may establish procedures to accept
evidence that the certificate of title or certificate of ownership has been voided
or destroyed by another state. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 28-2053, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2053.Certificate of title without registration
A.The
department may only issue
a vehicle certificate of title without registration for a vehicle that is physically present in this state for
any of the following reasons:
1.The applicant for a certificate of title is a
nonresident whose vehicle is not subject to vehicle registration in this state.
2.The owner
will register the vehicle under article 7 or 8 of this chapter.
3.2.The applicant
certifies that the vehicle was acquired for purposes other than highway use.
4.3.The vehicle was
acquired by operation of law.
5.4.The vehicle is an
offroad recreational motor vehicle required to be titled
issued a certificate of title pursuant to section 282061.
B.The department shall issue a
certificate of title without registration for either of the following reasons:
1.The
owner will register the vehicle under article 7 or 8 of this chapter.
2.the
vehicle is a trailer or semitrailer that will be used in interstate commerce
and that is registered in another state. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 28-2055, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2055.Certificate of title; content requirements; transfer on
death provision
A.The department or an authorized third party shall
print the certificate of title, and it
shall contain forms for assignment of title or interest and warranty by the
owner, do both of the
following:
1.Create the certificate of title with
space for notation of liens and encumbrances on the vehicle at the time of
transfer.The certificate of
title shall also contain the odometer mileage disclosure statement pursuant to
section 282058.
2.Provide
forms for assignment of title or interest and warranty by the owner that
contains the odometer mileage disclosure statement pursuant to section 28-2058.
B.At the request of the owner and on payment of a
fee prescribed by the department by rule, the certificate of title may contain,
by attachment, a transfer on death provision where the owner may designate a
beneficiary of the title vehicle.
C.If a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer has
been registered in any other state or country, the department shall retain in
its records the name of the state or country in which the prior registration
took place.
D.Except as
provided in section 282064, the department shall deliver or mail the
original certificate of title to:
1.The
applicant if there are not any liens or encumbrances on the certificate of
title.
2.The holder
of the lien or encumbrance first in time on the date of the application if
there are liens or encumbrances on the certificate of title. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 28-2058, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2058.Transfer of title; odometer mileage disclosure statement
A.When the owner of a registered or unregistered
vehicle transfers or assigns the owner's title or interest to the vehicle:
1.If the vehicle is registered:
(a)The owner shall endorse on the certificate of
title to the vehicle or title transfer form an
assignment with the warranty of title in
the form printed on the certificate.
(b)Except as provided in section 282094, the
owner shall deliver the certificate of
title or title transfer form to the purchaser or transferee at
the time of delivery of the vehicle to the purchaser or transferee.
(c)The registration of the vehicle expires and the
owner shall transfer the license plates, surrender the license plates to the
department or an authorized third party or submit an affidavit of license plate
destruction within thirty days after the owner transfers or assigns the owner's
title or interest in the vehicle.
(d)Except as provided in section 282091, the
acquiring owner shall apply for registration or a certificate of title, or both, within
fifteen days after the relinquishing owner transfers or assigns the
relinquishing owner's title or interest in the vehicle.The director
may prorate the registration period as the director deems necessary to coincide
with emissions inspection requirements.
(e)Except if the acquiring owner is an insurer who
acquires the vehicle pursuant to a claim settlement, the acquiring owner shall
display on the vehicle a temporary registration plate, another permit or a
valid license plate as prescribed by the department until ownership of the
vehicle is transferred in the department's records.
2.Regardless of
whether or not the vehicle is registered:
(a)Except as
provided in subsection B of this section, the owner shall deliver to the
purchaser or transferee an odometer mileage disclosure statement in a form
prescribed by the director.
(b)Except as provided in sections 28-2051, 282060 and 282091, the
purchaser or transferee shall present the certificate of title or title transfer form to
thedepartment with the required fee within fifteen days after the
transfer and:
(i)Except as
provided in section 282064, The department shall issue a
new certificate of title.
(ii)If required, the purchaser or transferee shall
apply for and obtain registration, and the department shall issue new license
plates to the purchaser or transferee.
B.The odometer disclosure requirement of subsection
A of this section does not apply to:
1.A motor vehicle that is ten model years of age or
older.
2.A motor vehicle that has a gross vehicle weight
rating of sixteen thousand pounds or more.
3.A vehicle that is not selfpropelled.
4.A motor vehicle that is sold directly by the
manufacturer to an agency of the United States in conformity with contractual
specifications.
5.A new motor vehicle that is purchased for resale
and not for use by the purchaser. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 28-2059, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2059.Obtaining a certificate of title; revocation
A.If satisfactory proof of ownership is furnished
to the director, the director may issue a certificate of title for a motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer whether or not a certificate of title has ever
been issued for that motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer.
B.If the director determines that an applicant for
a certificate of title to a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is not
entitled to a certificate of title, the director may refuse to issue a
certificate of title or
to register the vehicle. and, After notice and a hearing,
the director may revoke a registration already acquired or an outstanding
certificate of title.The director shall serve the notice in person
or by regular first class
mail.Within fifteen days after the date the notice is delivered or
mailed, the applicant may request a hearing. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section
28-2060, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2060.Transfer of ownership by operation of law
A.Except as provided
in subsection F of this section, when the title or interest of an owner of a
registered vehicle passes to another other than by voluntary transfer, the
transferee shall obtain a transfer of registration within thirty days after the
passing of the title or interest.
B.Within thirty days after passing of the title or
interest of an owner of a registered or unregistered vehicle, the transferee of
the vehicle shall obtain a new certificate of title on proper application and
presentation of the last certificate of title, if available, and such
instruments or documents of authority or certified copies of the instruments or
documents that are sufficient or required by law to evidence or effect a
transfer of title or interest in or to chattels that pass to another other than
by voluntary transfer.
C.If a motor vehicle has been forfeited to the
federal government and is sold at public auction pursuant to federal law, the
purchaser at the sale takes title free of any liens or encumbrances if federal
law so provides.If a motor vehicle has been forfeited to any local
or state government entity, agency or political subdivision or to any federal
law enforcement agency after the disposition of all claims under the laws of
this state, the order of the court forfeiting the vehicle shall transfer good
and sufficient title to the transferee and to any subsequent purchaser or
transferee.The purchaser or transferee shall register the motor
vehicle within thirty days after the sale or transfer, and the department shall
issue a certificate of title to the purchaser or transferee on presentation of
the evidence of title without any reference to liens or encumbrances.
D.The transferee of a vehicle required to be titled have a certificate of title and be registered under section 282153
or a mobile home required to be titled
have a certificate of title under
section 282063 may obtain a transfer of registration to the transferee
and a new certificate of title if both of the following occur:
1.The title or interest of the owner of the vehicle
passes to another either:
(a)Through notice and sale under the conditions
contained in any security agreement, chattel mortgage, conditional sale or
other evidence of lien or under the authority given by statute in cases arising
under sections 331021 and 331022 or under section 331704.
(b)For a mobile home the lien on which is also a
lien on real property, through a contract for conveyance of real property, deed
of trust or mortgage.
2.Satisfactory evidence is presented to the
director that the sale of the vehicle was fairly and lawfully conducted in
conformity with all requirements of law after due notice to the former owner.
In cases arising under section 331704, a declaration that is signed by
both the seller and the buyer and that sets forth compliance with section 331704
constitutes satisfactory evidence, and the director may rely on that
declaration.
E.Any administrator, executor, trustee or other
representative of the owner, a peace officer or a person repossessing a vehicle
under the terms of any conditional sales contract, lease, chattel mortgage or
other security agreement or a purchaser at a sale foreclosing a lien, or the
assignee or legal representative of any such person, may operate a vehicle from
the place of repossession or place where it was formerly kept to a garage or
place of storage in the county or state where the contract was recorded or
where the person repossessing the vehicle resides or to any other garage or
place of storage that is not more than seventyfive miles from the place
of repossession or place where the vehicle was formerly kept by the owner if
either of the following conditions exists:
1.The license plates assigned to the vehicle are
displayed on the vehicle.
2.If license plates are not displayed, a written
permit has been obtained from the department or the local authorities having
jurisdiction over the highways and a placard that bears the name and address of
the person authorizing the movement and that is legible from a distance of one
hundred feet during daylight is displayed in plain sight on the vehicle.
F.If ownership of a motor vehicle titled
for which a certificate of title has been issued in this state or
another state reverts through operation of state law to a lienholder of record
through repossession pursuant to the terms of a security agreement or through
another similar instrument that is valid in such state, an affidavit by the
lienholder of record stating that the vehicle was repossessed on default of the
terms stated in the security agreement or similar instrument is proof of
ownership, right of possession and right of transfer.If the lienholder of record is a financial
institution as defined in section 28-4301, the lienholder of record shall electronically
submit the repossession affidavit to the department. The
director shall prescribe the form and content of the affidavit.This
state and its agencies, employees and agents are not liable for relying in good
faith on the content of the affidavit. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 28-2061, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2061.All-terrain vehicles; off-highway vehicles; offroad
recreational motor vehicles; certificates of title; exemption
A.On the retail sale of a new all-terrain vehicle,
off-highway vehicle as defined in section 281171 or offroad
recreational motor vehicle, the dealer or person first receiving the motor vehicle
from the manufacturer shall apply, on behalf of the purchaser, to the
department for a certificate of title to the motor vehicle in the name of the
purchaser.If satisfied that the application is genuine and regular
and that the applicant is entitled to a certificate of title, the department shall issue a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle without requiring registration for
the motor vehicle.
B.A person who owns an all-terrain vehicle,
off-highway vehicle as defined in section 281171 or off-road
recreational motor vehicle shall apply for and obtain a certificate of title
required by this section in the manner prescribed in this chapter on or before July 1, 2009. On
the transfer of ownership of an all-terrain vehicle, off-highway vehicle as defined
in section 281171 or offroad recreational motor vehicle for which
a certificate of title is required by this section, a person shall apply for
and obtain a new certificate of title in
the manner prescribed in this chapter.
C.A person participating in an offhighway
vehicle special event as defined in section 281171 is exempt from the
requirements of this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 28-2063, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2063.Mobile home certificate of title; exceptions; fee
A.The
department shall issue a certificate of title for a mobile home
that is customarily kept in this state shall
be titled with the department and the fee required under section
282003 shall be paid except for:
1.A mobile home that is owned and held by a dealer
solely for purposes of sale.
2.A mobile home that is owned and operated
exclusively in the public service by the United States, by this state or by any
political subdivision of this state, except that it shall be titled have a certificate of title.
3.A mobile home that is permanently affixed, as
defined in section 331501 or
4215201, and for which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to section 33-1501.The
owner shall surrender the original certificates of title or manufacturer's
statements of origin to permanently affixed mobile homes to the department in
the manner prescribed by the department.The department shall issue
a receipt for the documents surrendered pursuant to this paragraph.
B.The issuance of a certificate of title for a
mobile home shall be as provided by law for titling the
issuance of a certificate of title for motor vehicles, except
that in the case of a mobile home that consists of two or more separate
sections, each section shall have a separate certificate of title.
C.A mobile home is subject to all applicable
provisions of this title, except those relating to registration.
D.If a certificate
of title is applied for on a mobile home entering this state for
sale or installation, a certificate of compliance or waiver issued by the
office of manufactured housing is required and shall be submitted with the certificate of title application.
END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section
28-2064, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2064.Electronic certificates of title system; applicability;
rules
A.The director shall may establish a system to require recording
of vehicle certificate of title information for newly
issued, transferred and corrected certificates of title, including perfection
and release of security interests, through electronic media in a costeffective
manner in lieu of the submission and maintenance of paper documents as provided
in this chapter.
B.In the process of establishing the system, the
director shall:
1.Research
methods by which the department, lending institutions and sales finance
companies may exchange and maintain information concerning the perfection and
release of vehicle security interests without submitting or receiving a paper
title document.
2.Develop
methods by which lending institutions, sales finance companies and
manufacturers may electronically submit updated information pertaining to the
title record, including the addition, assignment or release of vehicle security
interests.
1.Establish procedures for issuing
and maintaining an electronic certificate of title system that is applicable to
all certificate of title transactions performed in this state. 
2.Develop
methods to electronically share information related to applications for
certificates of title with law enforcement agencies and entities licensed under
this title.
C.Section 28444, subsection B applies to
certificates of title under the system established pursuant to this section.
D.This section does not apply to certificates of
title for mobile homes.
E.The
director may adopt rules as necessary to implement this section, including the
criteria for when the department may issue a paper certificate of title.
END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 28-2065, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2065.Electronic and digital signatures; documents
A.On or
before January 1, 2009, The director in cooperation with a
statewide association of franchised new motor vehicle dealers shall establish a
schedule to develop a pilot
program to accept and use electronic or digital signatures.
B.In the process of developing the pilot program, the director shall research and
develop methods to allow the department, authorized third parties, licensed
financial institutions, licensed insurers or any other business or individual
as determined by the director to accept, exchange and use electronic or digital
signatures for any document or for any transaction prescribed in this chapter
and sections 28370, 28444, 28453 and 285111.
C.The participants shall ensure that adequate
security measures are in place to prevent any illegal use of the signatures or
other information exchanged pursuant to this section.
D.Except for
a statewide association of franchised new motor vehicle dealers, the director
may limit the number of participants in the system but shall encourage
authorized third parties and businesses of various sizes to participate.
E.After the
system has been operating for twelve months, the director may expand the system
if the director determines the system is successful.
F.D.The
director may determine and require reimbursement from pilot program participants for costs related to
computer programming, hardware, development and personnel.The
department shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
all monies received pursuant to this section in a separate account of the state
highway fund established by section 28-6991. Monies in the separate account
are continuously appropriated.The director may transfer monies
deposited pursuant to this subsection from the separate account to the
operating budget of the department's motor vehicle division for the purpose of
reimbursing the department's operating budget for expenditures made by the
division pursuant to this section.
G.E.This
section does not limit the use of electronic and digital signatures used by
state agencies, boards or commissions pursuant to section 41-132.
H.F.The
director shall may adopt policies
rules necessary to implement this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 28-2091, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2091.Salvage certificate of title; stolen vehicle certificate
of title; nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title; recovered vehicles;
violation; classification; definitions
A.If a vehicle that is subject to titling the
issuance of a certificate of title or registration pursuant to
this chapter becomes a salvage vehicle, stolen vehicle or nonrepairable vehicle
and is acquired by an insurance company as a result of a total loss insurance
settlement, the insurance company or its authorized agent shall submit an
application, as determined by the insurance company or its authorized agent, to
the department within thirty days after the certificate of title is properly assigned by
the owner to the insurance company, with all liens released, on a form
prescribed by the department for either a salvage certificate of title, stolen
vehicle certificate of title or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title.
The selected certificate of title
shall include the following:
1.A properly endorsed certificate of title.
2.A lien satisfaction, if applicable.
3.The appropriate fees.
B.Within thirty days after oral or written
acceptance by the owner of an offer in settlement of total loss, if an
insurance company or its authorized agent is unable to obtain the documents
prescribed by subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section, the insurance
company or its agent, on a form provided by the department, may submit an
application to the department for a salvage certificate of title, stolen
vehicle certificate of title or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title.
The application shall include evidence that the insurance company or its agent
has made two or more written attempts to obtain the documents prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section.The application shall
include the appropriate fees prescribed by subsection A, paragraph 3 of this
section. The insurance company shall indemnify and hold harmless the
department for any claims resulting from the issuance of a salvage certificate
of title, stolen vehicle certificate of title or nonrepairable vehicle
certificate of title pursuant to this subsection.
C.Except for vehicles registered pursuant to
section 282482, 282483 or 282484, if the owner retains
possession of a salvage vehicle or nonrepairable vehicle, the owner shall
comply with this section before receiving a total loss settlement from the
insurance company or otherwise disposing of the vehicle.
D.Any other owner of a vehicle that is a salvage
vehicle or nonrepairable vehicle shall apply for a salvage certificate of title
or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title pursuant to this section.
E.On receipt of a proper application, the
department shall issue a salvage certificate of title, stolen vehicle
certificate of title or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title for the
vehicle.
F.If the department issues a nonrepairable vehicle
certificate of title for a vehicle, the registration of the vehicle is
cancelled. The front of a nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title shall be
branded with the word "nonrepairable". The ownership of a vehicle
for which a nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title has been issued shall
not be reassigned more than two times on that certificate of title or a title transfer form. If
a nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title is issued for a vehicle, the
department shall not perform any title
transfers or issue any further paper certificate of title for that vehicle.
G.An owner of a vehicle that is not a salvage
vehicle who sells the vehicle as scrap or for purposes of dismantling or
destroying shall assign the certificate of title or a title transfer form to the purchaser, and
the purchaser shall comply with section 282094.
H.On sale of the vehicle, an owner of a salvage
vehicle for which a salvage certificate of title has been obtained or an owner
of a nonrepairable vehicle for which a nonrepairable vehicle certificate of
title has been obtained shall assign and deliver the salvage certificate of
title or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title or a title transfer form to the purchaser and
shall notify the department of the name and address of the purchaser.
I.Except as provided in subsection L of this
section, the department shall issue a certificate of title to a vehicle that
has been issued a salvage certificate of title or stolen vehicle certificate of
title as a result of a total loss settlement by reason of theft if the vehicle
is recovered and was not wrecked or stripped of essential parts and the
insurance company or its authorized agent submits an affidavit to the
department in a form prescribed by the department stating either of the
following:
1.The vehicle is a recovered theft and both of the
following:
(a)The vehicle was not wrecked or stripped of
essential parts.
(b)To the insurance company's or its authorized
agent's actual knowledge, no air bag or component part necessary to the proper
function of the air bag system deployed in the vehicle or was removed from the
vehicle.
2.The vehicle is a recovered theft and, to the
insurance company's or its authorized agent's actual knowledge, an air bag or
an air bag module deployed in the vehicle or was removed from the vehicle. The
insurance company or its authorized agent shall list the location in the
vehicle of each deployment or removal of an air bag or an air bag module.
J.On receipt of an affidavit submitted pursuant to
subsectionI, paragraph 2 of this section, the department shall mark its
records to indicate the deployment or removal of the air bag or air bag module
from the vehicle and the location of each deployment or removal.
K.The insurance company or its authorized agent
shall give the purchaser of a vehicle that is a recovered theft, as described
in subsection I of this section, a copy of the affidavit submitted pursuant to
subsection I of this section.
L.If the vehicle is a recovered theft and
components of the vehicle's air bag system, other than the air bag or the air
bag module described in subsection I, paragraph 2 of this section, or other
parts of the vehicle were removed compromising the functional integrity of the
air bag system or the structural integrity of the vehicle, the insurance
company or its authorized agent shall submit an affidavit to the department in
a form prescribed by the department stating that the vehicle is a recovered
theft and that components of the vehicle's air bag system, other than the air
bag or the air bag module described in subsection I, paragraph 2 of this
section, or other parts of the vehicle were removed compromising the functional
integrity of the air bag system or the structural integrity of the vehicle.
The department shall not issue a certificate of title to the vehicle but may
issue a restored salvage certificate of title pursuant to section 282095
if all of the following apply:
1.The vehicle is repairable.
2.The department successfully completes a level
three inspection as prescribed in section 282011.
3.The vehicle meets other requirements the director
prescribes.
M.Except as provided in subsection N of this
section, any person who sells a vehicle that is issued a certificate of title
pursuant to subsection I of this section and who has actual knowledge that an
air bag, an air bag module or components of the vehicle's air bag system
compromising the functional integrity of the air bag system deployed or were
removed from the vehicle shall not fail to disclose the deployment or removal
to the buyer before completion of the sale with the intention of concealing the
deployment or removal. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor.
N.Subsection M of this section does not apply to
either of the following:
1.An insurance company or its authorized agent who
issues an affidavit pursuant to subsection I of this section unless the
insurance company or its authorized agent intentionally fails to disclose the
deployment or removal of an air bag, an air bag module or components of the
vehicle's air bag system that compromise the functional integrity of the air
bag system.
2.A person who owns a vehicle that is issued a
certificate of title pursuant to subsection I of this section if the person
repairs or replaces the air bag or air bag module in the vehicle.
O.Any person who sells a vehicle for which a
salvage certificate of title has been issued and who knows a salvage
certificate of title has been issued for the vehicle shall disclose to the
buyer before completion of the sale that the vehicle is a salvage vehicle.
P.If a vehicle that is titled has a certificate of title as a salvage vehicle is to be
scrapped, dismantled or destroyed, the owner or purchaser shall comply with
section 282094.
Q.The provisions of this chapter that refer to titles certificates of title apply to salvage
certificates of title, stolen vehicle certificates of title and nonrepairable
vehicle certificates of title issued pursuant to this section unless they
conflict with this section.
R.If a component part of a vehicle on which the
vehicle identification number is affixed is to be replaced and if the vehicle
is being repaired by a person other than its owner, the person shall notify the
owner in writing and in the manner prescribed by the department that the part
has been replaced, and the owner shall comply with section 282165. This
subsection does not apply if the department has not issued a salvage
certificate of title or a nonrepairable certificate of title and if the vehicle
manufacturer or the manufacturer's authorized agent meets all of the following
conditions:
1.The frame is the component part replaced.
2.The frame replacement is performed by the vehicle
manufacturer or the manufacturer's authorized agent.
3.If the original frame contained a vehicle
identification number or serial number, the original vehicle identification
number or serial number, in a similar size and style, is restamped in the
replacement frame by the manufacturer or the manufacturer's authorized agent.
4.Any existing manufacturer warranties remaining on
the vehicle are not voided.
5.The manufacturer or the manufacturer's authorized
agent obliterates all vehicle identification numbers or serial numbers
contained on the original frame.
S.Except as otherwise provided, a person who
violates this section is guilty of a class 2 misdemeanor.
T.For the purposes of this section:
1."Essential parts" means integral and
body parts, the removal, alteration or substitution of which will tend to
conceal the identity or substantially alter the appearance of the vehicle.
2."Nonrepairable vehicle" means a vehicle
of a type that is otherwise subject to titling the issuance of a certificate of title
and registration pursuant to this chapter and that either:
(a)Has no resale value except as a source of parts
or scrap metal and the owner or insurer designates the vehicle solely as a
source of parts or scrap metal.
(b)Is a completely stripped vehicle that is
recovered from theft and that is missing the engine or motor, the transmission,
all of the bolton sheet metal body panels, all of the doors and hatches,
substantially all of the interior components and substantially all of the grill
and light assemblies or that the owner designates has little or no resale value
except its worth as a source of scrap metal or as a source of a vehicle
identification number that could be used illegally.
(c)Is a completely burned vehicle that has been
burned to the extent that there are no usable or repairable body or interior
components, tires and wheels, engine or motor or transmission and that the
owner irreversibly designates as having little or no resale value except as a
source of scrap metal or as a source of a vehicle identification number that
could be used illegally.
3."Nonrepairable
vehicle certificate of title" means a vehicle ownership document issued to
the owner of a nonrepairable vehicle.
4.3."Salvage
vehicle" means a vehicle, other than a nonrepairable vehicle, of a type
that is subject to titling the issuance of a certificate of title
and registration pursuant to this chapter and that has been stolen, wrecked,
destroyed, flood or water damaged or otherwise damaged to the extent that the
owner, leasing company, financial institution or insurance company considers it
uneconomical to repair the vehicle.
5.4."Stolen
vehicle certificate of title" means a vehicle ownership document issued to
the owner of a vehicle that has been stolen and not recovered. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section 28-2094, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2094.Dismantling motor vehicle; application fee; certificate of
title; exemption
A.An owner who sells a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer as scrap or for dismantling or destroying shall assign the
certificate of title or title transfer
form of the vehicle to the purchaser.The purchaser
shall deliver the following to the department:
1.An application for a dismantle certificate of
title to scrap, dismantle or destroy the vehicle.
2.The certificate of title to or
title transfer form of the vehicle purchased.
3.The registration card of the vehicle.
4.The license plate of the vehicle, if any.
5.A fee of four dollars.
B.Except as
provided in subsection G, An
owner who intends or desires to dismantle a vehicle shall first forward all of
the following to the department:
1.An application for a dismantle certificate of
title to dismantle or wreck the vehicle.
2.The certificate of title to or
title transfer form of the vehicle.
3.The registration card of the vehicle.
4.The license plate of the vehicle, if any.
5.A fee of four dollars.
C.If the registration card or license plate is lost
or destroyed, the applicant shall state in a form prescribed by the department
under penalty of perjury the circumstances of the loss or
destruction.Except as
provided in subsection G, On
receipt of the documents and fee required by this section, the department shall
issue a dismantle certificate of title to the applicant to dismantle or destroy
the vehicle.The dismantle certificate of title or title transfer form authorizes the person
to transport or possess the vehicle or to transfer ownership by endorsement on
the dismantle certificate of title or
title transfer form.The department shall not issue a
certificate of title for the vehicle if it is dismantled or destroyed.
D.Except as
provided in subsection G, A licensed automotive recycler who files with the
application for a dismantle certificate of title under this section an Arizona
certificate of title indicating that the vehicle is free of all liens or a
valid release of any liens shown on the certificate
of title may begin dismantling the vehicle five days after
mailing or three days after delivery of the required documents and fee to the
department unless notified by the department of the claim of lien or interest
in the vehicle by some other person.If the department sends this
notice, the licensed automotive recycler shall cease dismantling or sale of the
vehicle and any of its parts until the rights of the other person are
determined.
E.A licensed automotive recycler may dismantle a
vehicle without obtaining a dismantle certificate of title in the licensed
automotive recycler's name if the vehicle has previously been issued a
dismantle certificate of title, a salvage certificate of title or a nonrepairable
vehicle certificate of title.The dismantle certificate of title,
salvage certificate of title or nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title must
be the current title of record.Except as provided in subsection G, An
automotive recycler shall file a written request to dismantle the vehicle in a
form prescribed by the department.The automotive recycler may begin
dismantling the vehicle after completing
the requirements imposed by the department pursuant to subsection G or
after mailing or delivering the request. If the department notifies the
automotive recycler of a claim of lien or interest in the vehicle by some other
person, the automotive recycler shall cease dismantling or sale of the vehicle
and any of its parts until the rights of the other person are determined.
F.An owner may dismantle a vehicle without
obtaining a dismantle certificate of title if a nonrepairable vehicle
certificate of title has been issued for the vehicle.
G.The
director may establish an electronic title system to allow the voluntary
recording of the information or documents required by this section through
electronic media in a costeffective manner in lieu of the submission of
paper documents as provided in this section. A valid electronic dismantle
certificate of title issued by the department to a person authorizes the person
to possess, transport, dismantle or destroy the vehicle.
H.In the
process of establishing the electronic title system, the director shall:
1.Research
methods by which the department and licensed automotive recyclers may exchange
and maintain information concerning the electronic completion of dismantle
certificates of title without submitting or receiving a paper document.
2.Develop
methods by which licensed automotive recyclers may electronically submit
updated information pertaining to the vehicle record.
3.Develop
methods to electronically share information related to applications for
dismantle certificates with law enforcement agencies and licensed automotive
recyclers for the purpose of identifying stolen vehicles and stolen vehicle
parts.
I.The
director may limit the number of licensed automotive recyclers participating in
the electronic title system.
J.G.The
director may adopt rules to implement this section.
K.H.This
section does not apply to the removal of a part for the purpose of replacement.
END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section
28-2095, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2095.Restored salvage certificate of title; inspections;
definitions
A.If a salvage
vehicle as defined in section 282091 is rebuilt or restored to
operation, the owner of the motor vehicle shall not transfer the motor vehicle
until a restored salvage certificate of title has been issued pursuant to this
section.
B.On application for a restored salvage certificate
of title, the department shall conduct a level two or level three inspection of
the vehicle that is the subject of the application to determine its proper
identity pursuant to section 282011.The inspection may
include a review of bills of sale and invoices for component parts used in the
reconstruction process. If the department is unable to conduct a level three
inspection for a restored salvage certificate of title within twenty days after
a request is made, the department shall conduct an inspection of the vehicle
within fortyeight hours after the twenty day period.
C.The seller or agent of a seller of a salvage
vehicle as defined in section 282091 shall inform the purchaser of a
salvage vehicle that ownership documentation for certain replacement parts used
in the repair of the salvage vehicle is required in connection with the
inspection prescribed by this section.
D.A person who possesses a salvage vehicle
asdefined in section 282091 and who submits it for
inspection as prescribed by this section shall submit to the department
paperwork that is satisfactory to the director. Satisfactory paperwork may
include copies of invoices, notarized bills of sale or other acceptable proof
of ownership for component parts.
E.If proper ownership documentation for a component
part is not submitted as required by this section, the department may seize the
component part.
F.If the department finds a stolen component part
in a vehicle while conducting an inspection provided for under this section,
the department shall seize the component part pursuant to section 284594.
G.The department shall deposit, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, any proceeds resulting from the seizure
and forfeiture of a component part pursuant to subsection E or F of this
section in the vehicle inspection and certificate
of title enforcement fund established by section 282012.
H.Any person who sells a vehicle for which a
restored salvage certificate of title has been issued and who knows a restored
salvage certificate of title has been issued for the vehicle shall disclose to
the buyer before completion of the sale that the vehicle is a restored salvage
vehicle.
I.For the purposes of this section:
1.For passenger vehicles, "component
parts" includes the cowl or firewall, front end assembly, rear clip,
including the roof panel, the roof panel if installed separately and the frame
or any portion of the frame, or in the case of a unitized body, the supporting
structure that serves as the frame, each door, the hood, each fender or quarter
panel, the deck lid or hatchback, each bumper, transmissions or transaxles and
an engine or motor. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Front end assembly" includes the
hood, fenders, bumper, radiator and supporting members for these
items.For vehicles with a unitized body, the front end assembly
also includes the frame support members.
(b)"Rear clip" includes the roof, quarter
panels, trunk lid, floor pan, rear bumper and support members for these items.
2.For trucks or trucktype or bustype
vehicles, "component parts" includes the cab, the frame or any
portion of the frame, and in the case of a unitized body, the supporting
structure that serves as a frame, the cargo compartment floor panel, the
passenger compartment floor pan, the roof panel, transmissions or transaxles,
engines or motors, each door, the hood, each fender or quarter panel, each
bumper, the tailgate and all component parts that are included in paragraph 1
of this subsection and that are not listed in this paragraph if the part is
replaced.
3.For motorcycles, "component parts"
includes the engine or motor, transmission or transaxle, frame, front fork,
crankcase and fairing and any other body molding.
4."Restored salvage certificate of title vehicle" means a certificate of title issued to a vehicle that
has been restored and for which a salvage certificate of title or a dismantle
certificate of title has been issued. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section 28-2097, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2097.Modular motor homes; definition
A.Notwithstanding any other provision of this
title:
1.If a refurbished coach or body component is
remounted to a new cab and chassis power unit of a modular motor home, the
department shall issue a certificate of
title for the
modular motor home according to the make of the refurbished
coach.The manufacturer's cab and chassis vehicle identification
number determines the model year.The department shall conduct a
level one inspection of the vehicle and shall brand the certificate of title refurbished.
2.If a modular motor home is separated by removal
of the coach or body component from the cab and chassis power unit and a cargo
box, container or structure, if any, other than a motor home coach, is fitted
to the cab and chassis unit, it ceases to be a modular motor
home.The department shall conduct a level one inspection and shall issue a certificate of title for the vehicle according to
the body style determined by the inspection.The department shall
use the make and model year of the cab and chassis for titling purposes the purpose of issuing a certificate of title
and shall brand the certificate of title
refurbished.
B.If a vehicle covered by this section is offered
for sale, a person who sells the vehicle shall keep full and complete disclosure
statements and present those statements to any person or entity that requests
them at the time of a sale or purchase.For the purposes of this
subsection, full and complete disclosure statements are documents that
accurately reflect the history of the original manufacturer's cab and chassis,
including vehicle identification numbers, dates of required inspections,
odometer readings and other information prescribed by the director in rules.
C.For the purposes of this section, "modular
motor home" means:
1.A type of motor home that is primarily designed
as temporary living quarters, that satisfies the requirements prescribed in
section 284301, paragraph 20, subdivision (b) and that is intended from
inception through final assembly to consist of an incomplete cab and chassis
power unit component and a coach or body component that are designed and
engineered to be joined or separated without sheet metal modifications to the
cab and chassis power unit component.
2.A vehicle that if joined to form a single unit
consists of both:
(a)A cab and chassis power unit component that is
purchased or acquired new from an original manufacturer.
(b)A coach or body component that is either
purchased or acquired new from an original manufacturer or that is refurbished.
END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Section 28-2131, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2131.Liens and encumbrances; validity
The following, other than a lien dependent on possession, are
not valid against the creditors of an owner acquiring a lien by levy or
attachment or against subsequent purchasers or encumbrancers without notice
until the requirements of this article are met:
1.Any security agreement, conditional sale
contract, conditional lease, chattel mortgage or other lien or encumbrance.
2.A certificate
of title retention instrument or any other instrument affecting
or evidencing title to, ownership of or reservation of title to a vehicle
required to be titled issued a certificate of title
and registered under section 282153 or a mobile home required to be titled issued a certificate of title under section
282063.
3.A contract for conveyance of real property, deed
of trust or mortgage securing a lien on a mobile home and on real property. END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 28-2132, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2132.Indication of lien or encumbrance
A.The department shall provide on the application
for a certificate of title
and the application for registration only a section that provides for the
indication of a lien or encumbrance on the vehicle.
B.The applicant's signature on the application for a certificate of title or the
application for registration only is consent for the lien or encumbrance to be
indicated by the department on its official certificate of title record for the vehicle.
C.Except as provided in subsection D of this section and on receipt
of the application as provided in this section, the department shall endorse on
the application the date and hour it was received at the registering office of
the department. 
D.The department shall not issue a new certificate
of title if the outstanding certificate of title indicates an existing lien or
encumbrance unless the lien or encumbrance has been satisfied or the lienor or
encumbrancer has consented in writing or electronically to the transfer of
title. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 28-2133, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2133.Index and filing of liens, encumbrances or instruments;
constructive notice
A.The department shall maintain an appropriate
index of all liens, encumbrances or title retention instruments filed as
provided by this article.
B.The filing and issuance of a new certificate of
title as provided in this article is constructive notice to creditors of the
owner or to subsequent purchasers of all liens and encumbrances against the
vehicle described in the certificate of title, except those that are authorized
by law and that are dependent on possession.If the documents
referred to in this article are delivered to a registering office or an
authorized third party provider of the department within thirty days after the
date of their execution, the constructive notice dates from the time of
execution. Otherwise, the notice dates from the time of receipt and filing of
the documents by the department as shown by its endorsement. For the purposes
of this subsection, the time stamp on the documents that is administered by the
registering officer or authorized third party provider of the department
electronically or otherwise is conclusive as to the time and date of delivery
of the documents.
C.The method provided in subsection B of this
section for giving constructive notice of a lien or encumbrance on a vehicle required
to be titled issued a certificate of title and registered
under section 282153 or a mobile home required to be titled
issued a certificate of title under section 282063 is
exclusive, except for liens dependent on possession.A lien,
encumbrance or title retention instrument or document that evidences any of
them and that is filed as provided by this article is exempt from the
provisions of law that otherwise require or relate to the recording or filing
of instruments creating or evidencing title retention or other liens or
encumbrances on vehicles of a type subject to registration under this chapter.
D.Notwithstanding any other law and except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, the failure of a motor vehicle dealer as
defined in section 284301, a finance company or the department to
complete the paperwork within thirty days as prescribed in subsection B of this
section shall not result in the loss of the vehicle for either the lienholder
or the person who purchased the vehicle. This subsection does not limit or
negate the powers of a trustee under 11 United States Code section 547 or any
successor statute. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 28-2134, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2134.Satisfaction of lien or encumbrance; assignment of
obligation by lienholder; civil penalty
A.When a holder of a lien or encumbrance receives
payment in full satisfying a lien or encumbrance recorded under this article,
the holder of the lien or encumbrance shall release the lien or encumbrance and
deliver the certificate of title to the
next holder of a lien or encumbrance entitled to possession of the certificate
of title or, if there is not another holder of a lien or encumbrance entitled
to possession of the certificate of title, to notify the owner of the vehicle at the address
shown on the certificate of title or, if the holder of the lien or encumbrance
has been previously notified of sale or transfer of the vehicle, to the person who is legally entitled to
possession that the department has
issued a certificate of title to the person for the vehicle.
B.If a holder of a lien or encumbrance assigns the
obligation and the holder lawfully has possession of the certificate of title,
the holder shall deliver the certificate of title at the time of assignment to
the holder's assignee. If a holder of a lien or encumbrance is not entitled to
possession of the certificate of title when the holder assigns the obligation,
the holder shall immediately deliver the certificate of title to the assignee
when the holder becomes lawfully entitled to and obtains lawful possession of
the certificate of title. The holder's assignee is entitled to hold the certificate
of title until the obligation is satisfied. When the obligation is satisfied,
the assignee shall deliver the certificate of title to the next holder of a
lien or encumbrance entitled to possession of the certificate of title or, if
there is not another holder of a lien or encumbrance entitled to possession of
the certificate of title, to the owner of the vehicle as prescribed in
subsection A of this section.
C.If a holder of a lien or encumbrance who
possesses a certificate of title as provided in this article refuses or fails
to surrender the certificate of title to the person who is legally entitled to
possession of the certificate of title on that person's request and within
fifteen business days after the holder receives payment in full satisfaction of
the holder's lien or encumbrance, after an opportunity for an administrative
hearing, the department may impose and collect a civil penalty from the holder
of the lien or encumbrance to be deposited, pursuant to sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the
state highway fund established by section 286991 as follows:
1.Fifty dollars if the certificate of title is
surrendered in accordance with this subsection within three additional business
days.
2.The penalty provided for in paragraph 1 of this
subsection plus fifty dollars for each additional day exceeding eighteen
business days that the certificate of title is not surrendered in accordance
with this subsection up to a maximum of five hundred dollars for each
certificate of title.
D.The department may satisfy a lien or encumbrance
on its records and on a certificate of title to a vehicle if the owner of the
vehicle furnishes satisfactory proof of the payment in full of the underlying
debt and an affidavit stating the following:
1.That the owner has made a diligent search to
locate the holder of the lien or encumbrance.
2.With particularity the steps taken in the search.
3.That after the search the holder of the lien or
encumbrance could not be found.
E.The department may satisfy a lien or encumbrance
against a vehicle on its records by accepting a certificate of title to the
vehicle issued by another jurisdiction if all of the following conditions
exist:
1.The lien previously recorded in this state does
not appear on the title presented from another jurisdiction.
2.The certificate
of title was issued by the other jurisdiction at least one year
before the time it was presented to this state.
3.The law of the other jurisdiction requires a lien
or encumbrance to be recorded on that state's certificate of title. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 28-2135, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2135.Perfection of security interest in inventory and mobile
homes
Notwithstanding any other provision in this article:
1.A security interest in inventory, as defined in
section 479102, consisting in whole or in part of vehicles required to
be titled issued a certificate of title and registered
under section 282153 or of mobile homes shall be perfected in accordance
with the filing provisions of title 47, chapter 9, article 5 to the extent that
those provisions are applicable by virtue of title 47, chapter 9, article 3.
2.A lien on a mobile home for which an affidavit of
affixture has been recorded pursuant to section 4215203 shall be
perfected either according to the laws governing perfection of liens on real
property or according to the laws governing perfection of security interests in
fixtures. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 28-2136, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2136.Unsatisfied liens
A.Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, the department may remove from its records a lien on a vehicle
required to be titled issued a certificate of title
and registered under section 282153 if the lien remains on the records
of the department as unsatisfied twelve years after filing with the department.
B.This section applies only to noncommercial
vehicles other than travel trailers, motor homes or mobile homes. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 28-2137, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2137.Restitution lien; removal
A.Notwithstanding section 282132, after a
hearing, the director may remove a restitution lien filed pursuant to section
13805 or section 13806
from a vehicle record if the director finds both of the following:
1.A person purchased the vehicle without any
knowledge that the vehicle was subject to a filed restitution lien.
2.The person who sold the vehicle is an obligor
under a filed restitution lien and sold the vehicle without disclosing to the
purchaser that the vehicle was subject to a filed restitution lien.
B.If a restitution lien is removed as prescribed in
subsection A of this section, the department shall place a code on the
obligor's record that automatically restores the restitution lien on any
vehicle that is subsequently titled issued a certificate of title
or registered, or both, by the obligor.
C.If the lien, or any portion of the lien, was the
result of an order to pay restitution, the party for whom restitution was
ordered shall be provided with notice of any hearing held pursuant to this
section and an opportunity to appear. The department shall provide notice of
the hearing to the governmental agency that requested the lien be placed on the
obligor's record. The governmental agency that requested the lien shall
promptly provide notice to any party for whom restitution was ordered. END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 28-2162, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2162.Delinquent registration; penalty; lien; failure to apply
for certificate of title; waiver
A.If a vehicle is operated on a highway without payment
of the registration or certificate of
title transfer fee, the fee is delinquent.If the fee
is not paid before the date on which the vehicle is required to be registered
for the current registration year, the department shall collect a
penalty.The penalty is eight dollars for the first month of
delinquency and four dollars for each additional month, not to exceed a total
penalty of one hundred dollars.Registration of a vehicle in the
name of the applicant for the year immediately preceding the year for which the
application for registration is made is prima facie evidence that the vehicle
has been operated on the highways during the year for which the application for
registration is made.
B.Except as provided in section 285807, an
applicant shall submit the total annual registration fee, the weight fee, any
other required fee and the penalty prescribed in subsection A of this section
with an application for registration of a vehicle that is submitted after the
date the vehicle was required to be registered for the registration year in
which registration of the vehicle for the next preceding year
expired.If it is determined at the time of renewal, on proof
satisfactory to the director, that the vehicle was not operated on the highways
of this state before the filing of the application and the registration of the
vehicle, the department shall refund or waive the penalty prescribed in
subsection A of this section.
C.A registration fee and any penalty added to the
fee are a lien on the vehicle on which they are due from the due
date.The department may collect the fee and penalty by seizure of
the vehicle from the person in possession of the vehicle, if any,
andby sale as provided by law.
D.The director shall prescribe the method of
readily identifying on the license plate the current registration date of the
license plate.
E.A person who fails to apply for a certificate of
title for any mobile home or other vehicle that is not registered under this
title within thirty days after acquiring the mobile home or vehicle shall pay
an additional fee equal to the penalty prescribed in subsection A of this
section.
F.If a person who is licensed pursuant to chapter
10 of this title applies for a dismantle certificate of title for a vehicle
pursuant to section 282094, the department shall waive any penalties
that relate to the vehicle and that are imposed pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Section 28-2165, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2165.Special serial or identification number
A.If the manufacturer's serial or other identifying
number of a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is altered, removed,
obliterated, defaced, omitted or otherwise missing or if the original
manufacturer's serial or identification number on a major component part of a
motor vehicle can be permanently restored after having been removed, defaced,
altered or destroyed, the owner at the time of application for registration of or titling of a certificate of title to the vehicle shall
file an application with the department, on a form the department provides,
that contains facts and information required by the director for the assignment
of a special serial or identifying number. 
B.The form prescribed by subsection A of this
section shall require, at a minimum, both of the following:
1.A sworn statement by the owner that the owner is
the lawful owner of the vehicle and that sets forth the basis for the claim of
ownership, including documentation such as purchase contracts, bills of sale,
invoices and receipts for the original vehicle and any replacement parts that
replaced damaged portions of the original vehicle that bore original manufacturer's
serial or identification numbers.
2.A copy of police or law enforcement agency
reports documenting the theft and recovery of the vehicle, a copy of a police
or law enforcement agency accident report documenting the extent of damage to
the vehicle, a certified copy of documents from an insurance company
documenting the precise nature, extent and dollar amount of damage to the
vehicle or a sworn statement by the owner, including full and complete
supporting documentation, establishing the origin of the vehicle and each major
component part of the vehicle.
C.If the director is satisfied that the applicant
has provided the documentation required by this section and that the applicant
is entitled to assignment of a special serial or identification number, the
director shall designate the serial number and note it on the application, on a
suitable record of the department and on the authorization of use of the
number.
D.The director shall furnish to the applicant a
serial plate together with the authorization of use that shall be immediately
delivered to a department inspector or agent who shall permanently attach the
serial plate to the item in a conspicuous position and certify the attachment
on the authorization of use.After attachment and certification, the
plate is the lawful serial or identification number and shall remain on the
item during its existence.
E.Subsection A of this section does not apply if
the provisions of section 282092, paragraph 1, subdivision (c) are met. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 28-3511, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3511.Removal and immobilization or
impoundment of vehicle; Arizona crime information center database
A.A peace officer shall cause the removal and
either immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle if the peace officer
determines that:
1.A person is driving the vehicle while any of the
following applies:
(a)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph subdivision, the person's driving privilege
is suspended or revoked for any reason. A peace officer shall not cause the
removal and either immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to this paragraph subdivision if the person's privilege to
drive is valid in this state.
(b)The person has not ever been issued a valid
driver license or permit by this state and the person does not produce evidence
of ever having a valid driver license or permit issued by another jurisdiction.
This paragraph subdivision does not apply to
the operation of an implement of husbandry.
(c)The person is subject to an ignition interlock
device requirement pursuant to chapter 4 of this title and the person is
operating a vehicle without a functioning certified ignition interlock device.
This paragraph subdivision does not apply to
the operation of a vehicle due to a substantial emergency as defined in section
281464.
(d)In furtherance of the illegal presence of an
alien in the United States and in violation of a criminal offense, the person
is transporting or moving or attempting to transport or move an alien in this
state in a vehicle if the person knows or recklessly disregards the fact that
the alien has come to, has entered or remains in the United States in violation
of law.
(e)The person is concealing, harboring or shielding
or attempting to conceal, harbor or shield from detection an alien in this
state in a vehicle if the person knows or recklessly disregards the fact that
the alien has come to, entered or remains in the United States in violation of
law.
2.A The vehicle is displayed for
sale or for transfer of ownership with a vehicle identification number that has
been destroyed, removed, covered, altered or defaced.
B.A peace officer shall cause the removal and
impoundment of a vehicle if the peace officer determines that a person is
driving the vehicle and if all of the following apply:
1.The person's driving privilege is canceled,
suspended or revoked for any reason or the person has not ever been issued a
driver license or permit by this state and the person does not produce evidence
of ever having a driver license or permit issued by another jurisdiction.
2.The person is not in compliance with the
financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this title.
3.The person is driving a vehicle that is involved
in an accident that results in either property damage or injury to or death of
another person.
C.Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, while a peace officer has control of the vehicle the peace officer
shall cause the removal and either immobilization or impoundment of the vehicle
if the peace officer has probable cause to arrest the driver of the vehicle for
a violation of section 4244, paragraph 34 or section 281382 or 281383.
D.A peace officer shall not cause the removal and
either the immobilization or impoundment of a vehicle pursuant to subsection C
of this section if all of the following apply:
1.The peace officer determines that the vehicle is
currently registered and that the driver or the vehicle is in compliance with
the financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this
title.
2.The spouse of the driver is with the driver at
the time of the arrest.
3.The peace officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that the spouse of the driver:
(a)Has a valid driver license.
(b)Is not impaired by intoxicating liquor, any
drug, a vapor releasing substance containing a toxic substance or any
combination of liquor, drugs or vapor releasing substances.
(c)Does not have any spirituous liquor in the
spouse's body if the spouse is under twentyone years of age.
4.The spouse notifies the peace officer that the
spouse will drive the vehicle from the place of arrest to the driver's home or
other place of safety.
5.The spouse drives the vehicle as prescribed by
paragraph 4 of this subsection.
E.Except as otherwise provided in this article, a
vehicle that is removed and either immobilized or impounded pursuant to subsection
A, B or C of this section shall be immobilized or impounded for thirty
days. An insurance company does not have a duty to pay any benefits for
charges or fees for immobilization or impoundment.
F.The owner of a vehicle that is removed and either
immobilized or impounded pursuant to subsection A, B or C of this section, the
spouse of the owner and each person identified
on the department's record with an who has provided the department with indicia of ownership as
prescribed in section 28-3514 or other interest in the vehicle that exists immediately before
the immobilization or impoundment shall be provided with an opportunity for an
immobilization or poststorage hearing pursuant to section 283514.
G.A law enforcement agency that employs the peace
officer who removes and either immobilizes or impounds a vehicle pursuant to
this section shall enter information about the removal and either
immobilization or impoundment of the vehicle in the Arizona crime information
center database within three business days after the removal and either
immobilization or impoundment. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 28-3512, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3512.Release of vehicle; civil penalties;
definition
A.An immobilizing or impounding agency shall
release a vehicle to the registered owner before the end of the thirty day
immobilization or impoundment period under any of the following circumstances:
1.If the vehicle is a stolen vehicle.
2.If the vehicle is subject to bailment and is
driven by an employee of a business establishment, including a parking service
or repair garage, who is subject to section 283511, subsection A, B or
C.
3.If the owner was operating the vehicle at the
time of removal and either immobilization or impoundment and presents proof
satisfactory to the immobilizing or impounding agency that the owner's driving
privilege has been reinstated.
4.If all of the following apply:
(a)The owner or the owner's agent was not the
person driving the vehicle pursuant to section 283511, subsection A.
(b)The owner or the owner's agent is in the
business of renting motor vehicles without drivers.
(c)The vehicle is registered pursuant to section 282166.
(d)There was a rental agreement in effect at the
time of the immobilization or impoundment.
5.For the spouse of the owner or any person who is
identified as an owner of the vehicle on the records of the department at the time
of removal and either immobilization or impoundment, if the spouse or person
was not the driver of the vehicle at the time of removal and either
immobilization or impoundment and the spouse or person enters into an agreement
with the immobilizing or impounding agency that stipulates that if the spouse
or person allows a driver who does not have a valid driving privilege or a
driver who commits a violation that causes the spouse's or person's vehicle to
be removed and either immobilized or impounded pursuant to this article within
one year after any agreement is signed by an immobilizing or impounding agency,
the spouse or person will not be eligible to obtain release of the spouse's or
person's vehicle before the end of the thirty day immobilization or impoundment
period.
6.If the
vehicle is owned by a motor vehicle dealer and is driven by a customer,
potential customer or employee of the motor vehicle dealer and the motor
vehicle dealer has provided to the immobilizing or impounding agency indicia of
the motor vehicle dealer's ownership of the vehicle, including a certificate of
title or a manufacturer-issued certificate or statement of origin.
B.A vehicle shall not be released pursuant to
subsection A of this section except pursuant to an immobilization or a
poststorage hearing under section 283514 or if all of the following are
presented to the immobilizing or impounding agency:
1.The owner's or owner's spouse's currently valid
driver license issued by this state or the owner's or owner's spouse's state of
domicile.
2.Proof of current vehicle registration or a valid
salvage or dismantle certificate of title.
3.Proof that the vehicle is in compliance with the
financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this title.
4.If the person is required by the department to
install a certified ignition interlock device on the vehicle, proof of
installation of a functioning certified ignition interlock device in the
vehicle.The impounding agency, storage yard, facility, person or
agency having physical possession of the vehicle shall allow access during
normal business hours to the impounded vehicle for the purpose of installing a
certified ignition interlock device. The impounding agency, storage yard,
facility, person or agency having physical possession of the vehicle shall not
charge any fee or require compensation for providing access to the vehicle or
for the installation of the certified ignition interlock device.
C.The owner or the owner's spouse if the vehicle is
released to the owner's spouse is responsible for paying all immobilization,
towing and storage charges related to the immobilization or impoundment of the
vehicle and any administrative charges established pursuant to section 283513,
unless the vehicle is stolen and the theft was reported to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. If the vehicle is stolen and the theft was reported to the
appropriate law enforcement agency, the operator of the vehicle at the time of
immobilization or impoundment is responsible for all immobilization, towing,
storage and administrative charges.
D.Before the end of the thirty day immobilization
or impoundment period, the immobilizing or impounding agency shall release a
vehicle to a person, other than the owner, identified on the department's
record as having an interest in the vehicle immediately before the
immobilization or impoundment if all of the following conditions are met:
1.The person is either of the following:
(a)In the business of renting motor vehicles
without drivers and the vehicle is registered pursuant to section 282166.
(b)A motor vehicle dealer, bank, credit union or
acceptance corporation or any other licensed financial institution legally
operating in this state or is another person who is not the owner and who holds
a security interest in the vehicle immediately before the immobilization or
impoundment.
2.The person pays all immobilization, towing and
storage charges related to the immobilization or impoundment of the vehicle and
any administrative charges established pursuant to section 283513 unless
the vehicle is stolen and the theft was reported to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. If the vehicle is stolen and the theft was reported to the
appropriate law enforcement agency, the operator of the vehicle at the time of
immobilization or impoundment is responsible for all immobilization, towing,
storage and administrative charges.
3.The person presents foreclosure documents or an
affidavit of repossession of the vehicle.
4.The person requesting release of the vehicle was
not the person driving the vehicle at the time of removal and immobilization or
impoundment.
E.Before a person described in subsection D of this
section releases the vehicle to the owner who was operating the vehicle at the
time of removal and immobilization or impoundment, the person described in
subsection D of this section shall require the owner to present and shall
retain for a period of at least three years from the date of releasing the
vehicle a copy of all of the following:
1.A driver license issued by this state or the
owner's or owner's agent's state of domicile.
2.A current vehicle registration or a valid salvage
or dismantle certificate of title.
3.Evidence that the vehicle is in compliance with
the financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this
title.
F.The person described in subsection D of this
section may require the owner to pay charges that the person incurred in
connection with obtaining custody of the vehicle, including all immobilization,
towing and storage charges that are related to the immobilization or
impoundment of the vehicle and any administrative charges that are established
pursuant to section 283513.
G.A vehicle shall
not be released after the end of the thirty day immobilization or impoundment
period unless the owner or owner's agent presents all of the following to the
impounding or immobilizing agency:
1.A valid driver
license issued by this state or by the owner's or owner's agent's state of
domicile.
2.A current vehicle registration or a valid salvage
or dismantle certificate of title.
3.Evidence that the vehicle is in compliance with
the financial responsibility requirements of chapter 9, article 4 of this
title.
4.If the person is required by the department to
install a certified ignition interlock device on the vehicle, proof of
installation of a functioning certified ignition interlock device in the
vehicle. The impounding agency, storage yard, facility, person or agency
having physical possession of the vehicle shall allow access during normal
business hours to the impounded vehicle for the purpose of installing a
certified ignition interlock device. The impounding agency, storage yard,
facility, person or agency having physical possession of the vehicle shall not
charge any fee or require compensation for providing access to the vehicle or
for the installation of the certified ignition interlock device.
H.The storage charges relating to the impoundment
of a vehicle pursuant to this section shall be subject to a contractual
agreement between the impounding agency and a towing firm for storage services
pursuant to section 411830.51 and shall be fifteen dollars for each day
of storage, including any time the vehicle remains in storage after the end of
the thirty day impoundment period.
I.The immobilizing or impounding agency shall have
no lien or possessory interest in a stolen vehicle if the theft was reported to
the appropriate law enforcement agency.The immobilizing or
impounding agency shall release the vehicle to the owner or person other than
the owner as identified in subsection D of this section even if the operator at
the time of immobilization or impoundment has not paid all immobilization,
towing, storage and administrative charges.
J.A person who enters into an agreement pursuant to
subsection A, paragraph 5 of this section and who allows another person to
operate the vehicle in violation of the agreement is responsible for a civil
traffic violation and shall pay a civil penalty of at least two hundred fifty
dollars.
K.A person described in subsection D, paragraph 1
of this section who violates subsection E of this section is responsible for a
civil traffic violation and shall pay a civil penalty of at least two hundred
fifty dollars.
L.For the purposes of this section, "certified
ignition interlock device" has the same meaning prescribed in section 281301.
END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section
28-3514, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-3514.Hearings; notice of immobilization or
storage; definition
A.If a peace officer removes and either immobilizes
or impounds a vehicle pursuant to section 283511, the immobilizing or
impounding agency may provide the owner, the spouse of the owner and any other
person identified on the department's
record as having an
providing indicia of ownership or other interest in the vehicle
immediately before the immobilization or impoundment with the opportunity for
an immobilization or poststorage hearing to determine the validity of the
immobilization or storage or consider any mitigating circumstances relating to
the immobilization or storage or release of the vehicle before the end of the
thirty day immobilization or impoundment period. If the immobilizing or
impounding agency provides the opportunity for an immobilization or poststorage
hearing, the immobilizing or impounding agency shall conduct the hearing in
accordance with any of the following: 
1.In the immobilizing or impounding agency's
jurisdiction.
2.Telephonically.
3.Pursuant to procedures prescribed by the
immobilizing or impounding agency to transfer the authority to conduct the
immobilization or poststorage hearing to a law enforcement agency in the
jurisdiction in which the owner, the spouse of the owner, the owner's agent or
any person identified in the department's record as having an interest in the
vehicle immediately before the immobilization or impoundment resides.
B.If the immobilizing or impounding agency does not
provide an opportunity for an immobilization or poststorage hearing, a justice
court shall conduct the immobilization or poststorage hearing.If an
immobilization or poststorage hearing is conducted by a justice court, the
immobilizing or impounding agency shall appear and show evidence.
Immobilization or poststorage hearings conducted by a justice court shall be
considered as civil filings for the purposes of judicial productivity credits.
C.Within three business days after immobilization
or impoundment, excluding weekends and holidays, the immobilizing or impounding
agency shall send a notice of storage by first class mail to each person, other
than the owner, identified on the department's record as having an interest in
the vehicle or who has provided the
department with indicia of ownership or other interest in the vehicle that
exists immediately before the immobilization or impoundment.
Service of notice of immobilization or storage is complete on mailing. If
within three business days after immobilization or impoundment, excluding
weekends and holidays, the immobilizing or impounding agency fails to notify a
person, other than the owner, identified on the department's record as having
an interest in the vehicle immediately before the immobilization or
impoundment, the immobilizing agency or the person in possession of the vehicle
shall not charge any administrative fees or more than fifteen days'
immobilization or impoundment when the person redeems the impounded vehicle or
has the immobilization device removed from the vehicle.
D.Within three business days after immobilization
or impoundment, excluding weekends and holidays, the immobilizing or impounding
agency shall mail or personally deliver notice of immobilization or storage to
the owner of the vehicle.
E.The notice of immobilization or storage shall
include all of the following information:
1.A statement that the vehicle was immobilized or
impounded.
2.The name, address and telephone number of the
immobilizing or impounding agency providing the notice.
3.The name, address and telephone number of the
immobilizing or impounding agency or justice court that will provide the
immobilization or poststorage hearing.
4.The location of the place of storage and a
description of the vehicle, including, if available, the manufacturer, model,
license plate number and mileage of the vehicle.
5.A statement that in order to receive an
immobilization or poststorage hearing the owner, the spouse of the owner, the
owner's agent or the person identified in the department's record as having an
interest in the vehicle immediately before the immobilization or impoundment,
within ten days after the date on the notice, shall request an immobilization or
poststorage hearing by contacting the immobilizing or impounding agency in
person or in writing or by filing a request with the justice court if the
impounding agency does not provide for a hearing and paying a fee equal to the
fee established pursuant to section 22281 for a small claims answer.
6.A statement that if the immobilizing or
impounding agency does not provide the opportunity for an immobilization or
poststorage hearing, the owner, the spouse of the owner, the owner's agent or
any person identified in the department's record as having an interest in the
vehicle or a person who has provided
the department with indicia of ownership or other interest in the vehicle that
exists immediately before the immobilization or impoundment may
request that the immobilization or poststorage hearing be conducted by a
justice court in the immobilizing or impounding agency's jurisdiction or the
jurisdiction in which the owner, the spouse of the owner, the owner's agent or
the person identified in the department's record as having an interest in the
vehicle immediately before the immobilization or impoundment resides.
F.The immobilization or poststorage hearing shall
be conducted by the immobilizing or impounding agency or justice court within
five business days, excluding weekends and holidays, after receipt of the
request.
G.Failure of the owner, the spouse of the owner or
other person or the other person's agent to request an immobilization or
poststorage hearing within ten days after the date on the notice prescribed in
subsection E of this section or to attend a scheduled hearing satisfies the
immobilization or poststorage hearing requirement.
H.The immobilizing or impounding agency employing
the person who directed the immobilization or storage is responsible for the
costs incurred for immobilization, towing and storage if it is determined in
the immobilization or poststorage hearing that reasonable grounds for the
immobilization or impoundment and storage are not established.
I.In compliance with the requirements of this
section, the vehicle owner, the vehicle owner's spouse or another person having who has an interest in the vehicle or who has provided the department with
indicia of ownership or other interest in the vehicle that exists immediately
before the immobilization or impoundment shall have an opportunity for a single
poststorage hearing for the release of the vehicle by either the immobilizing
or impounding agency or a justice court but not both.
J.For the
purposes of this section, "indicia of ownership" includes a
certificate of title, a manufacturer-issued certificate or a statement of
origin or other similar document. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 28-4335, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4335.Wholesale motor vehicle dealer or broker
A.A wholesale motor vehicle dealer or a broker:
1.Is required to be licensed pursuant to this
chapter and to be a legal resident of
this state.
2.Is not required to operate from an established
place of business.
3.Shall maintain a place of business in which
records of the business are kept.
B.If the licensee is a broker, the principal place
of business shall not be a location that is zoned for residential use.END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 28-4361, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4361.License application; criminal records check
A.A person shall apply for a license to the
director in writing on forms prescribed by the director.The person
shall include with the application all documents and bonds required and the
annual license fees prescribed by section 284302.
B.The application shall be verified and shall
contain:
1.The name and residence of either:
(a)The applicant.
(b)If the applicant is a partnership, each partner.
(c)If the applicant is a corporation, each
principal officer, director, agent or stockholder who owns twenty per cent percent or more of the corporation and the
name of the state in which the corporation was organized.
2.The principal place of business of the applicant.
3.The established place of business or the place of
business at or from which the applicant will conduct the business.
4.The make or makes of new motor vehicles, if any,
that the applicant will sell or offer for sale in this state.
5.The business hours of the applicant.
6.Other information that the director requires.
C.Each applicant who owns twenty per cent
percent or more of an entity, and each partner or stockholder who
owns twenty per cent percent or more of an entity,
and who seeks a new license shall provide:
1.A full set of fingerprints to the department of transportation for the
purpose of obtaining a state and federal criminal records check pursuant to
section 411750 and Public Law 92544.The department of
public safety may exchange this fingerprint data with the federal bureau of
investigation.
2.A nonrefundable fee to be paid to the department
of public safety for the criminal records check.
D.If a licensee adds or changes a partner or
stockholder who owns twenty per cent percent or more of the entity
and who was not included in the criminal records check on a prior application,
the licensee shall notify the department within thirty days of the change. At
the time of notification, an application and, if applicable, a full set of
fingerprints and the fee for a criminal records check shall be submitted to the
department. If any individual who is added or changed by the licensee is found
to be ineligible pursuant to section 284365, the director, on completion
of the criminal records check, shall advise the licensee and the individual in
writing that the license will be revoked, unless the individual is removed from
the position, and of the grounds for the action.
E.The requirement for a criminal records check:
1.Does not apply to a manufacturer, importer,
factory branch or distributor or a person who is under eighteen years of age on
the date the application is filed with the department.
2.May not apply if
the application is for a subsequent license and each applicant who owns twenty per cent percent or more of an entity, and each
partner or stockholder who owns twenty per
cent percent
or more of an entity, either:
(a)Have submitted to a criminal records check
during the past five years.
(b)Are currently licensed under this section.
3.Does not
apply to a new motor vehicle dealer. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 28-4403, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4403.Record requirements; motor vehicle information;
inspection; liability; electronic submission
A.A licensee shall keep and maintain at the
licensee's established place of business, or place of business if the licensee
is a broker or a wholesale motor vehicle dealer, a permanent record in the form
prescribed by the director containing:
1.A particular description of each motor vehicle of
a type subject to registration under the laws of this state that is bought,
sold, brokered or exchanged by the licensee or received or accepted by the
licensee for sale, brokering or exchange.
2.A particular description of each used motor
vehicle body or chassis that is sold or otherwise disposed of.
3.A particular description of each motor vehicle
that is bought or otherwise acquired and wrecked by the licensee.
4.The name and address of the person from whom a
motor vehicle, motor vehicle body or motor vehicle chassis was purchased or
otherwise acquired and the date it was purchased or acquired.
5.The name and address of the person to whom the
motor vehicle, motor vehicle body or motor vehicle chassis was sold or
otherwise disposed of, the date it was sold or disposed of and a sufficient
description of the vehicle, body or chassis by name or identifying number or
otherwise to identify it.
B.A licensed automotive recycler that has a vehicle
in the automotive recycler's inventory shall:
1.At the same time have possession of a duly and
regularly assigned salvage certificate of title, nonrepairable vehicle
certificate of title or dismantle certificate of title to the vehicle.
2.Not offer for sale or sell a vehicle unless a
salvage certificate of title, nonrepairable vehicle certificate of title or
dismantle certificate of title to the vehicle has been obtained.
C.Each motor vehicle dealer shall give the customer
a written contract and shall maintain a copy of the contract for three years at
the dealer's established place of business.
D.Each record required by this section and all
inventories relating to the records of a licensee shall be available at all
times for physical inspection by agents of the department or members of the
highway patrol division.The agents or members may enter on premises
where the records or inventories are located during normal business hours for
purposes of the inspection.The licensee or any designated employee
or agent may accompany any person making the inspection while the person is on
the licensee's premises.
E.The licensee is only liable to a person making an
inspection under this section for an injury arising out of the condition of the
premises that occurs while the person is on the licensee's premises if the
licensee knowingly allows the person to encounter a hidden peril or wantonly or
wilfully causes the person harm.
F.Beginning
January 1, 2014, A wholesale motor vehicle dealer shall submit
electronically to the department any documents that are requested by the
department during the wholesale motor vehicle dealer's reported business hours
and that are prescribed in this section. The wholesale motor vehicle dealer
shall submit the requested documents within forty-eight hours after the request
is transmitted. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 28-4409, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4409.Evidence of ownership requirement; exception
A.Except as provided in section 284410:
1.Each dealer in motor vehicles, trailers and
semitrailers, including manufacturers who sell to other than dealers, having
possession of or offering for sale a
motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer shall have at the same time either:
(a)Possession of a duly and regularly assigned
certificate of title to the vehicle.
(b)Reasonable indicia of ownership or right of
possession as provided in section 284410 approved by the director. 
2.A dealer or manufacturer shall not offer for sale
or sell a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer until the dealer or
manufacturer has obtained a certificate of title to the motor vehicle, trailer
or semitrailer, except that a certificate of title is not required for a new
motor vehicle sold by manufacturers to dealers.
B.A wholesale motor vehicle auction dealer is
exempt from the requirement of having to possess a duly and regularly assigned
certificate of title and from other requirements relating to the reassignment
of certificate of title
documents and disclosures to buyers.A wholesale motor vehicle
auction dealer may buy or sell a motor vehicle at wholesale in the wholesale
motor vehicle auction dealer's own name if the wholesale motor vehicle auction
dealer complies with the provisions of this title relating to certificates of
title, reassignments of certificate of title
documents and disclosures to buyers.
C.A wholesale motor vehicle dealer must apply for a certificate of title
in the name of the wholesale motor vehicle dealer any vehicle that the
wholesale motor vehicle dealer acquires before the wholesale motor vehicle
dealer transfers the vehicle to another licensed motor vehicle dealer. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Section 28-4410, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4410.Consignment contracts; definitions
A.A dealer in motor vehicles, trailers and
semitrailers may possess and offer for sale a motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer without having a duly or regularly assigned certificate of title or title transfer form in the
dealer's possession if the dealer possesses all of the following:
1.A consignment contract or dealer acquisition
contract.
2.The most recent registration card for the
vehicle.
3.A statement by the lienholder disclosing all
unsatisfied liens, if applicable.
B.A dealer may
complete the sale of a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer offered for sale
under subsection A of this section when the dealer possesses verification that
all liens on the motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer have been satisfied by
the dealer or assumed by the purchaser.
C.A dealer who offers a vehicle for sale on
consignment shall inform a prospective customer that the vehicle is on
consignment to the dealer.
D.The director shall adopt rules on the minimum
form and content of consignment contracts and dealer acquisition contracts.
E.This chapter does not allow the consignment of
motor vehicles from one licensee to another licensee.
F.A dealer in motor vehicles, trailers or
semitrailers may offer for sale or sell a motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer
without having a duly or regularly assigned certificate of title in the
dealer's possession if the dealer possesses a complete photocopy of the duly or
regularly assigned certificate of title, the original of which has been
delivered to a financial institution or a subsidiary of the financial institution
pursuant to an inventory financing arrangement.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Consignment contract" means an
agreement executed by both the owner of a vehicle and a licensed motor vehicle
dealer pursuant to which the vehicle is delivered to the dealer to sell for the
owner.
2."Dealer acquisition contract" means an
agreement that both:
(a)Is executed by both the owner of a vehicle, the certificate of title for which
is in possession of a lienholder in accordance with the laws of this state or
another state, and a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
(b)Transfers ownership of the vehicle described in
subdivision (a) of this paragraph to
a licensed dealer from a person other than a manufacturer, distributor,
franchisor or dealer.
3."Inventory financing arrangement" means
an agreement under which a dealer grants a security interest to a financial
institution under the provisions of title 47, chapter 9.END_STATUTE
Sec.40.Section 28-4412, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4412.Guaranty disclosure; used motor vehicles; definition
A.Before the consummation of the sale of a used
motor vehicle, a motor vehicle dealer shall:
1.Provide each purchaser with a written statement
that:
(a)Indicates whether or not an express warranty or
guaranty is associated with the used motor vehicle.
(b)Is distinguished from the body of the sales
agreement through the use of either boldfaced type or boldfaced
type of a color other than that used in the body of the agreement.
(c)States "as isnot expressly warranted or guaranteed", if the used
motor vehicle to be sold is not expressly warranted or guaranteed.
(d)Explicitly states the nature and extent of the
express warranty or guaranty, if the used motor vehicle to be sold is expressly
warranted or guaranteed.
(e)States "as isnot guaranteed to pass vehicle emissions
inspection.Vehicle not eligible for certificate of waiver and must
be repaired to meet emissions standards", if the used motor vehicle is a
disabled vehicle that is offered for sale at a wholesale public auction with an
auctioneer who is a licensed used motor vehicle dealer and if the vehicle does
not comply with the requirements prescribed in section 49542.
2.Direct the purchaser's attention to the written
statement.
B.This section does not negate any implied
warranties otherwise applicable to the sale of a used motor vehicle, including
the implied warranty of merchantability described in section 441267.
C.Before the
seller attempts to sell a motor vehicle the seller shall possess the title to
the motor vehicle and the title shall be in the seller's name.
D.C.Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section or title 12, chapter 6, article 9, a motor
vehicle dealer that sells a used motor vehicle to another motor vehicle dealer
or for the sole purpose of being legally destroyed or dismantled does not have
a duty to inspect a used motor vehicle for defects or damage before the
sale.This subsection does not negate any duties owed by a licensed
motor vehicle dealer to its retail customers.
E.D.For
the purposes of this section, "disabled vehicle" means a motor
vehicle that cannot operate on its own motive power. END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Section 28-4421, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4421.Selling dealer's duties
A.For purposes of issuing a certificate of title, registration,
warranties, rebates and incentives in a brokered sale of a new motor vehicle to
a retail consumer, the selling new motor vehicle dealer and not the broker is
responsible for:
1.Applying for a certificate of title in the name of the
purchaser and securing vehicle registration and the license plates for the
purchaser.
2.Securing the manufacturer's warranty in the name
of the purchaser.
3.Making all applications for any manufacturer's
rebates and incentives due the purchaser.
B.If there is a manufacturer's recall, the retail
consumer shall be notified directly by the manufacturer. END_STATUTE
Sec.42.Section 28-4423, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4423.Wholesale motor vehicle auction dealers; sign; title stamp
Each wholesale motor vehicle auction dealer shall:
1.Conspicuously post at the wholesale motor vehicle
auction dealer's established place of business a sign that contains the
following statement:
Arizona Revised Statutes section 284334 prohibits a
person who purchases a vehicle from this wholesale motor vehicle auction dealer
from selling the vehicle in this state unless the person is a licensed dealer
in this state.A person who violates this statutory provision is
guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
2.Stamp "export only" on the certificate of title of any
vehicle sold to a person who is licensed as a dealer by another country. END_STATUTE
Sec.43.Section 28-4533, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4533.Dealer's certificate; dealer license plates; fees
A.A dealer may apply to the department, on a form
provided for that purpose, for a dealer's certificate containing a general
distinguishing number.If the applicant is a dealer in new motor
vehicles, trailers or semitrailers, the applicant shall submit satisfactory
proof that the applicant is a duly authorized distributor or dealer for a
manufacturer.
B.The department may issue dealer license plates to
each dealer as follows:
1.For new motor vehicle dealers, not more than
thirty dealer license plates plus one additional license plate for every fifty
motor vehicles that are sold based on reported sales in the previous license
year.
2.For used motor vehicle dealers, not more than
fifteen dealer license plates plus one additional license plate for every fifty
vehicles that are sold based on reported sales in the previous license year.
3.For wholesale motor vehicle dealers, not more
than two dealer license plates plus one additional license plate for every
fifty vehicles that are sold based on reported sales in the previous license
year. All of the following requirements apply to dealer license plates issued
pursuant to this paragraph:
(a)Before the wholesale motor vehicle dealer's
license continuation date, the wholesale motor vehicle dealer must submit evidence
satisfactory to the department that the wholesale motor vehicle dealer has sold
at least ten vehicles to one or more
licensed new or used motor vehicle dealers in the previous
license year.
(b)If the wholesale motor vehicle dealer does not
submit the evidence prescribed in subdivision (a) of this paragraph, the
department shall cancel the dealer license plates issued to the wholesale motor
vehicle dealer.
(c)The department shall not issue more than ten
dealer license plates to a wholesale motor vehicle dealer pursuant to this
paragraph.
C.The department, on granting the application,
shall issue to the applicant a certificate containing the applicant's name and
address and the general distinguishing number assigned to the applicant and the
dealer license plates for which the applicant applied on payment of the fee
provided in this section.
D.The fee for each license plate or pair of license
plates issued to a dealer is:
1.Thirty dollars, if the dealer is not a motorcycle
dealer.
2.Ten dollars, if the dealer is a motorcycle
dealer.
E.The director may recall, redesign and reissue
dealer license plates pursuant to this article. The plate or pair of plates
issued shall contain a number or symbol distinguishing them from every other
plate or pair of plates issued to the same dealer. The director shall not
allow a request for dealer license plates to be combined with a request for a
personalized special plate issued pursuant to section 282406. Reissued
dealer license plates shall be distributed as determined by the director.
F.The right to use a dealer license plate issued
terminates at midnight on the last day of the month in which the plate fees are
due unless the plate fees for the following year are paid.
G.A dealer who applies for and obtains dealer
license plates shall comply with chapter 9 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Section 28-4547, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4547.Requirements for temporary registration plates
A.A dealer shall not:
1.Issue, assign or deliver temporary registration
plates to anyone other than a bona fide purchaser of a vehicle that is not
registered for the current year.
2.Issue temporary registration plates unless the
purchaser files an application for a certificate of title and an application
for annual registration of the vehicle before or at the time the plates are
issued.
3.Issue temporary registration plates unless the
application for a certificate of title is accompanied by either a
manufacturer's certificate of origin properly assigned by a licensed new motor
vehicle dealer, or a properly signed certificate
of title or a title transfer form.
B.The dealer, as the agent of the purchaser, shall
forward the application for a certificate of title, the application for
registration and the prescribed fees for both applications to the department.END_STATUTE
Sec.45.Section 28-4594, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4594.Altered serial or identification number; contraband;
seizure; disposition
A.Except if a manufacturer's serial or
identification number of a motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle
is removed, defaced, altered or destroyed with the permission of the department
or if a special serial or identifying number issued by the department has been
properly affixed to a vehicle pursuant to section 282165, a motor
vehicle or major component part of the vehicle that has had the manufacturer's
or department's serial or identification number removed, defaced, altered or
destroyed and a serial or identification number so removed are contraband.
B.A law enforcement agency shall both:
1.Immediately seize and store the motor vehicle or
major component part of a vehicle or serial or identification number that is
contraband pursuant to subsection A of this section.
2.Attempt to restore the original manufacturer's
serial or identification numbers on the item seized as follows:
(a)If the original identification numbers can be
permanently restored and the last owner as identified on official title records
maintained by the vehicle registration agency of the state, country or
territory in which the vehicle was last titled issued a certificate of title
or the person or entity to which a
certificate of title was assigned by the last owner as identified
on official title records can be found, the law enforcement agency shall return
the motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle to the person or entity.

(b)If the original identification numbers can be
temporarily restored and the last owner as identified on official title records
maintained by the vehicle registration agency of the state, country or
territory in which the vehicle was last titled issued a certificate of title
or the person or entity to which a
certificate of title was assigned by the last owner as identified
on official title records can be found, the county attorney of the county in
which the motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle was seized or the
attorney general, within sixty days after the date of seizure or such other
reasonable time that is set by the court, shall file a petition or action in
the superior court in the county in which the item was seized or in Maricopa
county to forfeit the motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle to
this state for use or other appropriate disposition by the law enforcement agency
that seized the item or for such other disposition as the state deems
appropriate.The petition shall set forth probable cause that the
item is contraband.A copy of the petition or notice of pending
forfeiture shall be served as follows:
(i)On the person from whom the item was seized by
certified mail to the person's last known address.
(ii)On the last owner and any lienholders or
interest holders identified on official title records by certified mail to the
names and addresses identified on official title records.
(iii)On any other known interest holders by
certified mail to each holder's last known address.
(iv)By publication in one issue of a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the property was seized.
(c)If the original identification numbers cannot be
permanently or temporarily restored or the last owner as identified on official
title records cannot be found, the county attorney in the county in which the
motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle was seized or the attorney
general, within sixty days after the date of seizure or such other reasonable
time as is set by the court, shall file a petition or action in the superior
court in the county in which the item was seized or in Maricopa county to
forfeit the motor vehicle or major component part of a vehicle to this state
for use or other appropriate disposition by the law enforcement agency that
seized the item or for such other disposition as the state deems
appropriate.The petition shall set forth probable cause that the
item is contraband.A copy of the petition or notice of pending
forfeiture shall be served on the person from whom the item was seized by
certified mail to the person's last known address.
C.If a verified claim is not filed within the time
period provided in section 284595, subsection A, the court shall declare
the seized item to be contraband and shall sign an order forfeiting the seized
item to the state for use or other appropriate disposition by the law
enforcement agency that seized the item or for other disposition as the state
deems appropriate. END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 28-5101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5101.Third party authorization
A.The director may authorize third parties to
perform certain of the following functions:
1.Title and registration.
2.Motor carrier licensing and tax reporting.
3.Dealer licensing.
4.Driver licensing as prescribed in sections 285101.01,
285101.02 and 285101.03.
B.The director may authorize a person to be a third
party electronic service provider or,
beginning January 1, 2012, to be a third party electronic service
partner. An authorized third party electronic service provider shall meet all
of the requirements established by the department. Beginning January 1, 2012:
1.The
written agreement between the department and the authorized third party
electronic service provider may be for a limited number of services and may
limit the persons that may receive the services. 
2.An
authorized third party electronic service partner shall meet the requirements
established by the department and shall be selected through a competitive bid
process.
C.A person shall not engage in any business
pursuant to this article unless the director authorizes the person to engage in
the business.
D.The director may furnish necessary documents or
license plates subject to this article.
E.Except as provided in subsection Fof this
section, an authorized third party or an authorized third party electronic
service provider shall submit to the department all statutorily prescribed fees
and taxes it collects.In addition to the statutorily prescribed
fees and taxes, an authorized third party or an authorized third party
electronic service provider may collect and retain a reasonable and
commensurate fee for its services.
F.In addition to payment pursuant to section 28374,
the department shall reimburse the authorized third party or third party
electronic service provider as follows:
1.One dollar of each initial, renewal, replacement
or duplicate registration fee for a vehicle or an aircraft.
2.One dollar of each initial, duplicate or transfer
certificate of title fee
for a vehicle or an aircraft. 
3.An amount equal to two per cent
percent of each vehicle license tax payment or aircraft license
tax payment the authorized third party collects and submits to the department
or four dollars for each registration year or part of a registration year,
whichever is more. The reimbursement amount shall not exceed the amount of
vehicle license tax or aircraft license tax collected.
4.Four dollars for each initial, renewal,
replacement or duplicate application that the third party processes and that
relates to driver licenses, nonoperating identification licenses or
permits.An authorized third party may add the cost for expedited
processing of renewal, replacement or duplicate applications if requested by
the applicant.
5.An amount equal to two per cent
percent of each overweight or excess size vehicle registration or
permit fee the third party collects and submits to the department or one dollar
for each overweight or excess size vehicle registration or permit processed,
whichever is more.
6.One dollar for each motor vehicle or special
motor vehicle record, excluding motor vehicle records released to commercial
recipients, including insurers and their authorized agents.
7.Five dollars or onefourth of one per cent percent of the fuel taxes reported, whichever
is greater, for each fuel tax report filed electronically.In fiscal years 20082009 through 20122013,
the maximum annual amount retained each year shall not exceed one million five
hundred thousand dollars.Beginning in fiscal year 20132014,
The maximum annual amount retained each year shall not exceed four hundred
eighty thousand dollars.
8.One dollar for each fuel tax permit.
9.One dollar for each nonsufficient funds or
dishonored check payment.
10.One dollar for each abandoned vehicle report
processed, except for applications for crushed vehicles.
11.One dollar for each abandoned vehicle payment.
12.Two dollars for each initial special or
personalized license plate application.
13.One dollar for each initial, renewal or
replacement vehicle dealer license plate.
14.Five dollars for each application for an initial
vehicle dealer license or continuation of a vehicle dealer license.
15.One dollar of each twelve dollar fee paid
pursuant to section 282356.
16.One dollar for each traffic survival school
application and one dollar for each certificate of completion processed.
17.One dollar for each replacement license plate or
tab.
G.For authorized third party electronic service
partners, the amount of compensation and the amount of reimbursements for
transactions shall be negotiated by the department and the authorized third
party electronic service partner and shall be set forth in the written
agreement authorizing the third party electronic service partner. If
reimbursement is made for individual transactions, the reimbursements shall not
exceed the amounts specified in subsections F, H and I of this
section.Other forms of compensation or reimbursements for services
may be specified in the written agreement.Compensation and
reimbursements provided for by the written agreement may include the
development and implementation of information technology and other automated
systems and any necessary support for these systems.
H.The department's authorized third party
electronic service provider may retain two dollars for processing documents
electronically when the statutory fee pursuant to this title is two dollars or
more.
I.The director may authorize the third party
electronic service provider to process electronic fund transfers to the
department for payment of motor vehicle taxes and fees. The third party
electronic service provider may add a two dollar processing fee for each
electronic funds transfer.
J.Each authorized third party that holds itself out
as providing services to the general public shall post a sign in a conspicuous
location in each facility of the authorized third party that contains all of
the following:
1.The amount charged for each transaction performed
by the authorized third party.
2.The amount charged by the department for the same
transaction.
3.How to file a complaint or concern with the
department about the authorized third party. END_STATUTE
Sec.47.Section 28-5111, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5111.Electronic transmission and recording of title,
registration and driver license; program; authorized third party
A.The director may establish a pilot program to measure and determine the
effectiveness of the following in improving customer service, operations,
capital cost reductions and security of information transmitted to the
department:
1.The electronic transmission and recording of
vehicle certificate of title
and registration information between the department and an authorized third
party or an authorized third party electronic service provider for the purpose
of titling and registering vehicles entering this state from another jurisdiction
in a costeffective manner in lieu of the submission and maintenance of
paper documents.
2.The electronic transmission and recording of
driver license applications between the department and another state through an
authorized third party or authorized third party electronic service provider
for the purpose of issuing driver licenses in a costeffective manner in
lieu of the submission and maintenance of paper documents as provided in this
chapter.
3.The electronic transmission and recording of
vehicle accident data between the department, other states and law enforcement
agencies within this state or within another state through an authorized third
party or authorized third party electronic service provider.
B.In the process of establishing the system, the
director shall:
1.Research methods the department and authorized
third parties or authorized third party electronic service providers may use to
exchange and maintain information relating to driver licenses and vehicle certificates of title and
registration without submitting or receiving a paper document.
2.Develop methods an authorized third party or an
authorized third party electronic service provider may use to electronically
submit updated information relating to the certificate of title and registration record
or the driver license record.
C.The director may limit the number of other states
and authorized third party electronic service providers participating in the
system. After the system has been
operating for twelve months, If the director determines the
system is successful, the director may expand the system.
D.Chapter 2, article 5 of this title applies to
certificates of title and driver license information under the system
established pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Section 47-9311, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE47-9311.Perfection of security interests in property subject to
certain statutes, regulations and treaties
A.Except as otherwise provided in subsection D of
this section, the filing of a financing statement is not necessary or effective
to perfect a security interest in property subject to:
1.A statute, regulation or treaty of the United
States whose requirements for a security interest's obtaining priority over the
rights of a lien creditor with respect to the property preempt section 479310,
subsection A;
2.A statute of this state that provides for central
filing of or that requires indication on a certificate of title of a security
interest in the property, including title 28, chapter 7, article 4, and that
requires indication of the security interest on a certificate of title for a
vehicle required to be titled issued a certificate of title
and registered under section 282153 and for a mobile home required to be
titled under section 282063; or
3.A statute of another jurisdiction that provides
for a security interest to be indicated on a certificate of title as a condition
or result of the security interest's obtaining priority over the rights of a
lien creditor with respect to the property.
B.Compliance with the requirements of a statute,
regulation or treaty described in subsection A of this section for obtaining priority
over the rights of a lien creditor is equivalent to the filing of a financing
statement under this chapter.Except as otherwise provided in
subsection D of this section and section 479313 and section 479316,
subsections D and E for goods covered by a certificate of title, a security
interest in property subject to a statute, regulation or treaty described in
subsection A of this section may be perfected only by compliance with those
requirements, and a security interest so perfected remains perfected
notwithstanding a change in the use or transfer of possession of the
collateral.
C.Except as otherwise provided in subsection D of
this section and section 479316, subsections D and E, duration and
renewal of perfection of a security interest perfected by compliance with the
requirements prescribed by a statute, regulation or treaty described in
subsection A of this section are governed by the statute, regulation or
treaty.In other respects, the security interest is subject to this
chapter.
D.During any period in which collateral subject to
a statute specified in subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section is inventory
held for sale or lease by a person or leased by that person as lessor and that
person is in the business of selling goods of that kind, this section does not
apply to a security interest in that collateral created by that person. END_STATUTE

