







REFERENCE TITLE: children's health insurance program.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1385









Introduced by
Senator
  Begay; Representatives Carter, Cobb





AN ACT

Amending section
362982, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 362985,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 362986, Arizona Revised
Statutes; relating to the children's health insurance program.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
36-2982, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2982.Children's health insurance program; administration;
nonentitlement; enrollment; eligibility
A.The children's health
insurance program is established for children who are eligible pursuant to
section 362981, paragraph 6.The administration shall
administer the program. All covered services shall be provided by health plans
that have contracts with the administration pursuant to section 362906,
by a qualifying plan or by either tribal facilities or the Indian health
service for Native Americans who are eligible for the program and who elect to
receive services through the Indian health service or a tribal facility.
B.This article does not
create a legal entitlement for any applicant or member who is eligible for the
program.Total enrollment is limited
based on the annual appropriations made by the legislature and the enrollment
cap prescribed in section 362985.
C.The director shall
take all steps necessary to implement the administrative structure for the
program and to begin delivering services to persons within sixty days after
approval of the state plan by the United States department of health and human
services.
D.The administration
shall perform eligibility determinations for persons applying for eligibility
and annual redeterminations for continued eligibility pursuant to this article.
E.The administration
shall adopt rules for the collection of copayments from members whose income
does not exceed one hundred fifty per
cent percent of
the federal poverty level and for the collection of copayments and premiums
from members whose income exceeds one hundred fifty per cent percent of the federal poverty level.The
director shall adopt rules for disenrolling a member if the member does not pay
the premium required pursuant to this section.The director shall
adopt rules to prescribe the circumstances under which the administration shall
grant a hardship exemption to the disenrollment requirements of this subsection
for a member who is no longer able to pay the premium.
F.Before enrollment, a
member, or if the member is a minor, that member's parent or legal guardian,
shall select an available health plan in the member's geographic service area
or a qualifying health plan offered in the county, and may select a primary
care physician or primary care practitioner from among the available physicians
and practitioners participating with the contractor in which the member is
enrolled.The contractors shall only reimburse costs of services or
related services provided by or under referral from a primary care physician or
primary care practitioner participating in the contract in which the member is
enrolled, except for emergency services that shall be reimbursed pursuant to
section 362987. The director shall establish requirements as to the
minimum time period that a member is assigned to specific contractors.
G.Eligibility for the
program is creditable coverage as defined in section 201379.
H.On
application for eligibility for the program, the member, or if the member is a
minor, the member's parent or guardian, shall receive an application for and a
program description of the premium sharing program.
I.H.Notwithstanding
section 362983, the administration may purchase for a member employer sponsored employersponsored group
health insurance with state and federal monies available pursuant to this
article, subject to any restrictions imposed by the federal
health care financing administration centers for medicare and medicaid services.This
subsection does not apply to members who are eligible for health benefits
coverage under a state health benefits plan based on a family member's
employment with a public agency in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Section 36-2985,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.3.Section
36-2986, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2986.Administration; powers and duties of director
A.The director has full
operational authority to adopt rules or to use the appropriate rules adopted
for article 1 of this chapter to implement this article, including any of the
following:
1.Contract
administration and oversight of contractors.
2.Development of a
complete system of accounts and controls for the program, including provisions
designed to ensure that covered health and medical services provided through
the system are not used unnecessarily or unreasonably, including inpatient
behavioral health services provided in a hospital.
3.Establishment of peer
review and utilization review functions for all contractors.
4.Development and
management of a contractor payment system.
5.Establishment and
management of a comprehensive system for assuring quality of care.
6.Establishment and
management of a system to prevent fraud by members, contractors and health care
providers.
7.Development of an
outreach program.The administration shall coordinate with public
and private entities to provide outreach services for children under this
article. Priority shall be given to those families who are moving off welfare.
Outreach activities shall include strategies to inform communities, including
tribal communities, about the program, ensure a wide distribution of
applications and provide training for other entities to assist with the
application process.
8.Coordination
of benefits provided under this article for any member.The director
may require that contractors and noncontracting providers are responsible for
the coordination of benefits for services provided under this article.
Requirements for coordination of benefits by noncontracting providers under
this section are limited to coordination with standard health insurance and
disability insurance policies and similar programs for health coverage. The
director may require members to assign to the administration rights to all
types of medical benefits to which the person is entitled, including first party firstparty medical benefits under
automobile insurance policies. The state has a right of subrogation against
any other person or firm to enforce the assignment of medical benefits. The
provisions of this paragraph are controlling over the provisions of any
insurance policy that provides benefits to a member if the policy is
inconsistent with this paragraph.
9.Development and
management of an eligibility, enrollment and redetermination system, including a process for
quality control.
10.Establishment and
maintenance of an encounter claims system that ensures that ninety per cent percent of the clean claims are paid within
thirty days after receipt and ninetynine per cent percent of the remaining clean claims are paid within
ninety days after receipt by the administration or contractor unless an
alternative payment schedule is agreed to by the contractor and the provider.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "clean claims" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 362904, subsection G.
11.Establishment of
standards for the coordination of medical care and member transfers.
12.Requiring
contractors to submit encounter data in a form specified by the director.
13.Assessing civil
penalties for improper billing as prescribed in section 362903.01,
subsection K.
B.Notwithstanding any
other law, if Congress amends title XXI of the social security act and the
administration is required to make conforming changes to rules adopted pursuant
to this article, the administration shall request a hearing with the joint
health committee of reference for review of the proposed rule changes.
C.The director may
subcontract distinct administrative functions to one or more persons who may be
contractors within the system.
D.The director shall
require as a condition of a contract with any contractor that all records
relating to contract compliance are available for inspection by the
administration and that these records be maintained by the contractor for five
years.The director shall also require that these records are
available by a contractor on request of the secretary of the United States
department of health and human services.
E.Subject
to existing law relating to privilege and protection, the director shall
prescribe by rule the types of information that are confidential and
circumstances under which this information may be used or released, including
requirements for physicianpatient confidentiality. Notwithstanding any
other law, these rules shall be designed to provide for the exchange of
necessary information for the purposes of eligibility determination under this
article. Notwithstanding any other law, a member's medical record shall be
released without the member's consent in situations of suspected cases of fraud
or abuse relating to the system to an officer of this state's certified Arizona
health care cost containment system fraud control unit who has submitted a
written request for the medical record.
F.The director shall
provide for the transition of members between contractors and noncontracting
providers and the transfer of members who have been determined eligible from
hospitals that do not have contracts to care for these persons.
G.To the extent that
services are furnished pursuant to this article, a contractor is not subject to
title 20 unless the contractor is a qualifying plan and has elected to provide
services pursuant to this article.
H.As a condition of a
contract, the director shall require contract terms that are necessary to
ensure adequate performance by the contractor. Contract provisions required by
the director include the maintenance of deposits, performance bonds, financial
reserves or other financial security. The director may waive requirements for
the posting of bonds or security for contractors who have posted other
security, equal to or greater than that required by the administration, with a
state agency for the performance of health service contracts if monies would be
available from that security for the system on default by the contractor.
I.The director shall
establish solvency requirements in contract that may include withholding or
forfeiture of payments to be made to a contractor by the administration for the
failure of the contractor to comply with a provision of the contract with the
administration. The director may also require contract terms allowing the
administration to operate a contractor directly under circumstances specified
in the contract. The administration shall operate the contractor only as long
as it is necessary to assure delivery of uninterrupted care to members enrolled
with the contractor and to accomplish the orderly transition of members to
other contractors or until the contractor reorganizes or otherwise corrects the
contract performance failure. The administration shall not operate a
contractor unless, before that action, the administration delivers notice to
the contractor providing an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with
procedures established by the director.Notwithstanding the
provisions of a contract, if the administration finds that the public health,
safety or welfare requires emergency action, it may operate as the contractor
on notice to the contractor and pending an administrative hearing, which it
shall promptly institute.
J.For the sole purpose
of matters concerning and directly related to this article, the administration
is exempt from section 41192.
K.The director may
withhold payments to a noncontracting provider if the noncontracting provider
does not comply with this article or adopted rules that relate to the specific
services rendered and billed to the administration.
L.The director shall:
1.Prescribe uniform
forms to be used by all contractors and furnish uniform forms and procedures,
including methods of identification of members. The rules shall include
requirements that an applicant personally complete or assist in the completion
of eligibility application forms, except in situations in which the person has
a disability.
2.By rule, establish a
grievance and appeal procedure that conforms with the process and the time
frames specified in article 1 of this chapter. If the program is suspended or terminated pursuant to section
362985, an applicant or member is not entitled to contest the denial,
suspension or termination of eligibility for the program.
3.Apply for and accept
federal monies available under title XXI of the social security
act.Available state monies appropriated to the administration for the
operation of the program shall be used as matching monies to secure federal
monies pursuant to this subsection.
M.The administration is
entitled to all rights provided to the administration for liens and release of
claims as specified in sections 362915 and 362916 and shall
coordinate benefits pursuant to section 362903, subsection F and be a
payor of last resort for persons who are eligible pursuant to this article.
N.The director shall
follow the same procedures for review committees, immunity and confidentiality
that are prescribed in article 1 of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.AHCCCS; children's health insurance program; state plan
amendment; request for funding
Within five days after the effective date of this section, the
Arizona health care cost containment system administration shall do both of the
following:
1.Submit to the centers for medicare and medicaid
services a state plan amendment for this state's title XXI children's health insurance
program to resume enrollment in the program.
2.Project the enrollment rate for the children's
health insurance program for the remainder of federal fiscal years 20152016
and 20162017 and request from the centers for medicare and medicaid
services any additional allotment needed to resume enrollment in the children's
health insurance program.
Sec.5.Conditional enactment; notice
A.Sections 36-2982
and 36-2986, Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by this act and the repeal of
section 36-2985, Arizona Revised Statutes, by this act do not become effective
unless on or before July 1, 2017 the centers for medicare and medicaid services
approve this state's state plan amendment to resume enrollment in the
children's health insurance program.
B.The director of the Arizona health care cost
containment system shall notify in writing the director of the Arizona
legislative council on or before July 15, 2017 either:
1.Of the date on which the condition was met.
2.That the condition was not met.

