







REFERENCE TITLE: telephone solicitations







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1375









Introduced by
Senators
  Lesko, McGuire, Yee; Representatives Borrelli, Cardenas, Larkin, Thorpe:
  Senators Begay, Burges, Contreras, Donahue, Shooter; Representatives Carter,
  McCune Davis, Mitchell





AN ACT

amending sections
44-1271 and 44-1282, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to telephone
solicitations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1271, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1271.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Business opportunity":
(a)Means the sale or lease, or offer for sale or
lease, of any goods or services to a consumer for an initial payment of five
hundred dollars or greater for the purpose of enabling the consumer to start or
operate a business, which sale or lease is not limited to sales initiated or
made by the telephone.
(b)Includes a solicitation of consumers in which
the seller represents one or more of the following:
(i)That the consumer may or will earn an amount in
excess of the initial payment as a result of the purchase.
(ii)That a market exists for any goods to be made
or sold or services to be rendered by the consumer.
(iii)That the seller will provide locations or
assist the consumer in finding locations for the use or operation of vending
machines, racks, display cases or other similar devices or currency-operated
amusement machines or devices or any other devices.
(iv)That the seller may purchase from the consumer
goods to be made or services to be rendered by the consumer.
(v)That the seller guarantees, either conditionally
or unconditionally, that the consumer will derive income from the business
opportunity or that the seller will refund all or part of the price paid for
the business opportunity or repurchase any of the goods supplied by the seller
if the consumer is unsatisfied with the business opportunity.
(vi)That the seller or an entity associated with
the seller will provide a sales program or marketing program to the consumer
unless the marketing program is offered in conjunction with the licensing of a
registered trademark or service mark, if the trademark or service mark has been
effectively registered under federal law.
(c)Does not include:
(i)The sale of all or substantially all of the
assets of an ongoing business where the owner of that business sells and
intends to sell only that one business opportunity.
(ii)The not-for-profit sale of sales demonstration
equipment, materials or samples for a total price of five hundred dollars or
less.
(iii)The sale of a franchise as defined by the
federal trade commission regulations as set forth in 16 Code of Federal
Regulations section 436.1.
2."Consumer" means a person who is
solicited by a seller or solicitor.
3."Goods" means any merchandise,
equipment, products, supplies or materials.
4."Initial payment" means the total
amount the purchaser becomes obligated to pay to the seller and to any third
party for goods, services or merchandise related to a previously purchased
business opportunity, either prior to or at the time of the delivery of any
goods, services or merchandise within six months after the commencement of the
operation of the business opportunity by the purchaser.
5."Licensed associated person of a securities,
commodities or investments broker" means any associated person registered
or licensed by the national association of securities dealers, a selfregulatory
organization as defined in the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 United
States Code section 78c) or an official or agency of this state or of any other
state of the United States.
6."Licensed securities commodities or
investments broker, dealer or investment advisor" means a person licensed
or registered as a securities commodities or investments broker, dealer or
investment advisor by the securities and exchange commission, the national
association of securities dealers, a selfregulatory organization as
defined in the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 United States Code section
78c) or an official or agency of this state or of any other state of the United
States.
7."Manager" means a person who supervises
the work of a solicitor.
8."Merchandise" means objects, wares,
goods, commodities, intangibles, real estate, securities or services.
9."Person" means:
(a)A natural person or the person's legal
representative.
(b)A partnership, a limited liability company, a
limited liability partnership or a domestic or foreign corporation.
(c)A company, trust, business entity or
association.
(d)An agent, employee, salesman, partner, officer,
director, member, stockholder, associate or trustee.
(e)Any other legal entity or any group associated
in fact although not a legal entity.
10."Premium" means any gift, bonus,
prize, award or other incentive or inducement to purchase merchandise.
11."Principal" means an owner or an
officer of a corporation or limited liability company, a general partner of a
partnership, a sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship, a partner of a limited
liability partnership, a trustee of a trust and any other individual who
controls, manages or supervises a telephone sales operation.
12."Prize" means anything offered or
purportedly offered and given or purportedly given to a person by
chance.Chance exists if a person is guaranteed to receive an item
and at the time of the offer or purported offer the seller or solicitor does
not identify the specific item that the person will receive.
13."Prize promotion" means a sweepstakes
or other game of chance or an oral or written express or implied representation
that a person has won, has been selected to receive or may be eligible to
receive a prize or purported prize.
14."Recovery service" means any business
or other practice in which a person represents or implies that the person will
recover or assist in recovering for a fee any amount of money that a consumer
has provided to a seller pursuant to a telephone solicitation.
15."Seller" means a person who, directly
or through a solicitor, does any of the following:
(a)Initiates telephone calls to provide or arrange
to provide merchandise to consumers in exchange for payment.
(b)Solicits by telephone in response to inquiries
from a consumer generated by a notification or communication sent or delivered
to the consumer that represents or implies that:
(i)The consumer has been specially selected in any
manner to receive the notification or communication or the offer contained in
the notification or communication.
(ii)The consumer will receive a premium if the
consumer calls the person.
(iii)If the consumer purchases merchandise from the
person, the consumer will also receive additional or other merchandise, the
same as or different from the type of merchandise purchased, without any
additional charge or for a price that the person represents or implies is less
than the regular price of the merchandise.
(iv)The person is offering for sale the services of
a recovery service.
(v)The person is offering to make a loan, to
arrange or assist in arranging a loan or to assist in providing information
that may lead to obtaining a loan unless no payment of any kind is made until
the loan proceeds are disbursed to the borrower.
(vi)The consumer will receive a credit card if the
consumer pays a fee for the card before receiving the card.
(vii)The person is offering for sale identity
protection assistance.
(c)Solicits by telephone in response to inquiries
generated by advertisements on behalf of the person that represent or imply
that:
(i)The person is offering to sell the services of a
recovery service.
(ii)The person is offering to make a loan, to
arrange or assist in arranging a loan or to assist in providing information
that may lead to obtaining a loan unless no payment of any kind is made until
the loan proceeds are disbursed to the borrower.
(iii)The consumer will receive a credit card if the
consumer pays a fee for the card before receiving the card.
(d)Solicits consumers to purchase a business
opportunity or merchandise related to a business opportunity through any means
including the telephone, internet or mail or other hard copy text or through
any electronic, wireless or other communication media.
16."Solicitor" means a person, other than
a seller or employee of a seller, who uses a telephone to seek sales or rentals
of merchandise on behalf of a seller or uses a telephone to verify sales or
rentals for a seller.
17."Subscriber" means a person who
subscribes to residential telephone service from a local exchange company and
any person who lives or subscribes with that person.
18."Telephone solicitation" means any
voice communication to a telephone number
in this state from a live operator, announcing device or
otherwise to offer that offers merchandise for
sale or rent and that is to or from a
person located in this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-1282, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1282.National do-not-call registry; prohibitions; enforcement;
civil penalty; definition
A.A seller or solicitor or anyone acting on
behalf of a seller or solicitor shall not initiate an intrastate outbound telephone solicitation call to a
any telephone number in
this state if the telephone number is entered in the national donotcall
registry established by the federal trade commission pursuant to the donotcall
implementation act, except that this section does not apply to any intrastate telephone solicitation
that would be authorized or permitted by federal law or regulation relating to aninterstate a telephone solicitation or to calls made by
or on behalf of a seller or solicitor who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 20 if the calls are made under any of the following circumstances:
1.In regard to a past or present employment
agreement with the consumer pursuant to title 32, chapter 20, article 3 and who
is calling in regard to a subject reasonably related to the employment
agreement.
2.In response to a referral from a natural person
with whom the consumer has a personal relationship.
3.In response to an express request or permission
of a consumer whose telephone number is entered in the national donotcall
registry.
B.If a seller
or solicitor or person acting on behalf of a seller or solicitor is authorized
or permitted to perform any action or conduct any practice under the donotcall
implementation act with respect to interstate telephone solicitations, the
seller, solicitor or person may perform the action or conduct the practice with
respect to intrastate telephone solicitations to telephone numbers in this
state.
C.B.A violation of
this section is an unlawful practice pursuant to section 441522.The
attorney general may investigate and take appropriate action pursuant to
chapter 10, article 7 of this title, but a civil penalty under section 441531
for a violation of this section shall not exceed one thousand dollars per
violation. This subsection is in addition to all other causes of action,
remedies and penalties available to this state. All monies collected as fines
and civil penalties pursuant to this subsection shall be credited to the state
general fund.
D.C.For the purposes
of this section, "donotcall implementation act" means
the donotcall implementation act (P.L. 10810; 117 Stat.
557) as enacted on March 11, 2003 and federal regulations adopted to implement
that act. END_STATUTE

