







REFERENCE TITLE: election and ethics commission; duties







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1391









Introduced by
Senators
  Quezada, Dalessandro, Farley, Hobbs, Sherwood; Representative Andrade:
  Senators Cajero Bedford, Pancrazi





AN ACT

amending Title
16, chapter 6, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 16-926;
amending title 41, chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding ARTICLE 2;
amending title 41, CHAPTER 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 41-3026.01; relating to elections and ethics.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
16, chapter 6, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 16-926, to read:
START_STATUTE16-926.Arizona election and ethics commission; secretary of
state; campaign finance duties
Beginning in 2017, the Arizona election and ethics commission
established pursuant to title 41, chapter 3, article 2 shall succeed to the
duties of the secretary of state with respect to acting as the investigatory,
compliance and enforcement officer for political committees supporting or
opposing the recall of a public officer elected statewide or to the
legislature, supporting or opposing the circulation of petitions for ballot
measures, questions and propositions appearing on a state general election
ballot or recall of public officials elected statewide or to the legislature or
supporting or opposing candidates for state offices and members of the
legislature and for a statewide initiative or referendum or any measure or
proposition appearing on a state general election ballot. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 41,
chapter 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 2, to read:
ARTICLE
2.ARIZONA ELECTION AND ETHICS COMMISSION
START_STATUTE41-521.Arizona election and ethics commission; members; terms;
meetings; compensation
A.The Arizona election and ethics commission is
established consisting of six members. The governor shall appoint one member
and the highest ranking official holding a statewide office who is not a member
of the same political party as the governor shall appoint the next member. If
there is no statewide officeholder who is not a member of the same political
party as the governor, the appointment shall be made by the highest ranking
member of the minority party in the house of representatives. Thereafter, the
highest ranking member of the majority party in the house of representatives
shall appoint one member, followed by the highest ranking member of the
minority party in the house of representatives, who shall appoint one member,
followed by the highest ranking member of the majority party in the state
senate, who shall appoint one member, followed by the highest ranking member of
the minority party in the state senate, who shall appoint one member.
B.Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled
by an appointment by the then current holder of the office designated to make
the appointment.
C.During the fiveyear period immediately
before taking office and for the duration of the member's term of office, a
member may not seek or accept nomination, election or appointment to any
elected public office or serve on a committee supporting or opposing any
initiative, referendum or other measure to be submitted to a vote of the people
at the time the member is serving on the commission.
D.Members may not be employed by this state.
E.Members shall serve four-year terms beginning
on the third Monday in January.
F.The commission shall meet at the call of the
chairperson or on the written request of a majority of the members. Approval
by at least four members of the commission is required for the commission to
act.
G.Members are eligible for reimbursement of
expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2.END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-521.01.Commission powers and duties; civil penalty; enforcement;
complaint investigations
A.The Arizona election and ethics commission
shall:
1.Appoint an executive director.
2.On request, issue advisory opinions regarding
campaign finance, ethics and disclosure laws to candidates for state public
office and to committees supporting or opposing any initiative, referendum or
other measure to be submitted to a statewide vote of the public.
3.Adopt, amend or repeal rules pursuant to
chapter 6 of this title to carry out the purposes of this article, title 16,
chapter 6, article 1 and sections 38-542 and 38-543.
4.Conduct investigations and audits as the
result of any complaint brought before the commission by a member of the
public, a candidate for state public office or a committee supporting or
opposing any initiative, referendum or other measure to be submitted to a
statewide vote of the public.
5.Conduct a hearing pursuant to chapter 6,
article 10 of this title if the commission determines after an investigation
that a hearing is warranted.
6.Impose a civil penalty of not more than five
thousand dollars for any violation of title 16, chapter 6, article 1 or section
38-542 or 38543.
B.The Arizona election and ethics commission or
a member of the commission may:
1.Administer oaths, examine witnesses and
receive evidence relating to an investigation or hearing conducted pursuant to
this section.
2.Issue and enforce subpoenas compelling the
attendance and testimony of witnesses or demanding the production of physical
evidence relating to an investigation or hearing conducted pursuant to this
section.
C.The attorney general shall enforce this
article, title 16, chapter 6, article 1 and sections 38-542 and 38-543 through
civil and criminal actions.
D.The commission shall use the following
procedures to investigate a complaint filed pursuant to this section:
1.The commission shall notify by certified mail
the person against whom a complaint has been filed within two business days
after receiving the complaint. The notice shall include a copy of the
complaint, any supporting documentation accompanying the complaint and a copy
of this section.
2.Within seven days after mailing the notice, the person
against whom a complaint has been filed may file a response with the
commission.
3.On receipt of the response or the expiration of the
seven-day period, whichever is sooner, the commission, by majority vote, shall
either dismiss the complaint within seven days or proceed with a formal
investigation. If the complaint is dismissed, the complaint and answer shall
be kept confidential. If the commission votes to proceed with a formal
investigation, the person against whom a complaint has been filed shall be
notified by certified mail, a formal hearing date shall be set and the
complaint and answer shall be made public. A formal hearing shall begin at
least five days but not more than twenty days after the notice is mailed.
4.Failure to file an answer may not be deemed to be an
admission or to create an inference or presumption that the complaint is true.
5.By majority vote, the commission may modify the time
periods contained in this subsection. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-521.02.Ethics enforcement; rules; penalties; definition
A.The Arizona election and ethics commission may
receive any ethics complaint filed against a candidate for statewide or
legislative office or against an elected official of state government,
including the legislature. Members of the public may file
Complaints.Complaints filed with the commission must be in writing
and signed by the complainant.
B.The Arizona election and ethics commission may
investigate and make recommendations to appropriate civil and criminal
enforcement agencies regarding any of the following:
1.Violations of campaign finance, financial
disclosure or conflict of interest laws.
2.Violation of laws regarding employment of
relatives or prohibited personnel practices.
3.Nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance in
office.
4.Other ethical or statutory violations.
C.The Arizona election and ethics commission may not
conduct investigations involving the following:
1.The conduct or results of a specific election.
2.Disputes relating to the election and qualification of
any member of the legislature.
3.The conduct of any judicial officer of this state.
D.In interpreting the restrictions contained in
subsection C of this section, the commission shall observe the separation of
powers under article III, Constitution of Arizona.
E.The commission shall use the following procedures to
investigate a complaint filed pursuant to this section:
1.The commission shall notify by certified mail the
person against whom a complaint has been filed within two business days after
receiving the complaint. The Notice shall include a copy of the complaint, any
supporting documentation accompanying the complaint and a copy of the text of
this section.
2.Within seven days after mailing the notice, the person
against whom a complaint has been filed may file a response with the
commission.
3.On receipt of the response or the expiration of the
seven-day period, whichever is sooner, the commission, by majority vote, shall
either dismiss the complaint within seven days or proceed with a formal
investigation. If the complaint is dismissed, the complaint and answer shall
be kept confidential. If the commission votes to proceed with a formal
investigation, the person against whom a complaint has been filed shall be
notified by certified mail, a formal hearing date shall be set and the
complaint and answer shall be made public. A formal hearing shall begin at
least five days but not more than twenty days after the notice is mailed.
4.Failure to file an answer may not be deemed to be an
admission or to create an inference or presumption that the complaint is true.
5.By majority vote, the commission may modify the time
periods contained in this subsection.
F.The Arizona election and ethics commission may:
1.Issue and enforce subpoenas compelling the attendance
and testimony of witnesses or demanding the production of physical evidence
relating to an investigation conducted pursuant to this section.
2.After the investigation of a complaint, impose civil
penalties of not more than five thousand dollars for any violation of this
article.
3.After the investigation of a complaint, forward the
complaint to the appropriate law enforcement agency if the commission
determines that such action is warranted.
G.Decisions rendered by the commission may be appealed
to the superior court.
H.For the purposes of this section, "ethics
complaint" means a complaint brought before the Arizona election and
ethics commission against a candidate for public office, a committee supporting
or opposing any initiative, referendum or other measure to be submitted to a
statewide vote of the public or an elected official of state government,
including the legislature, that alleges an ethical or statutory violation. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-521.03.Commission attorney
The attorney general shall provide an attorney to render
legal advice and assistance to the Arizona election and ethics commission.
Notwithstanding section 41192, the commission may hire independent
counsel in place of the attorney general. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-521.04.Secretary of state; access to filings
The secretary of state shall cooperate with and provide shared
access to the Arizona election and ethics commission for all campaign finance
filings and financial disclosure filings over which the Arizona election and
ethics commission has jurisdiction as prescribed by this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding section 41-3026.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3026.01.Arizona election and ethics commission; termination July
1, 2026
A.The Arizona election and ethics commission terminates
on July 1, 2026.
B.Title 41, chapter 3, article 2 is repealed on January
1, 2027. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Purpose
Pursuant to section 41-2955,
subsection E, Arizona Revised Statutes, the legislature establishes the Arizona
election and ethics commission to act as the investigatory, compliance and
enforcement officer for election-related matters.
Sec.5.Conforming legislation
The legislative council staff shall prepare proposed
legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions of this
act for consideration in the fifty-third legislature, first regular session.

