







REFERENCE TITLE: wage rates; prohibitions 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1369









Introduced by
Senators
  McGuire, Hobbs, Miranda, Sherwood: Contreras, Farley, Pancrazi, Quezada





AN ACT

Amending section
23341, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to employment practices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-341, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-341.Equal wage rates; variations; penalties; enforcement;
records; confidentiality
A.Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
chapter, no an employer shall may
not pay any person in his employ
employee at wage rates
less than the rates paid to employees of the opposite sex in the same establishment for the same quantity and quality
of the same classification of work, provided, that nothing herein shall
prohibit a variation of rates of pay for male and female employees engaged in
the same classification of work based upon a difference in seniority, length of
service, ability, skill, difference in duties or services performed, whether
regularly or occasionally, difference in the shift or time of day worked, hours
of work, or restrictions or prohibitions on lifting or moving objects in excess
of specified weight, or other reasonable differentiation, factor or factors
other than sex, when exercised in good faith. for substantially similar work when viewed as a composite
of skill, effort and responsibility and performed under similar working
conditions, unless the employer demonstrates the following: 
1.The wage
differential is based on one or more of the following factors:
(a)A seniority system.
(b)A merit system.
(c)A system that measures earnings
by quantity or quality of production. 
(d)A bona fide factor other than
sex, including education, training or experience.This subdivision
applies only if the employer demonstrates that the bona fide factor is not
based on or derived from a sexbased differential in compensation, is
related to the position in question and is consistent with a business
necessity. This subdivision does not apply if the employee demonstrates that
an alternative business practice exists that would serve the same business
purpose without producing a wage differential. For the purposes of this
subdivision, "business necessity" means an overriding legitimate
business purpose on which a bona fide factor is relied and that is effectively
fulfilled by that bona fide factor. 
2.The
employer reasonably relied on a factor or factors prescribed in paragraph 1 of
this subsection.
3.The
factor or factors on which the employer relied account for the entire wage
differential.
B.Any employer who violates subsection A of this
section is liable to the employee affected in the amount of the wages of which such the employee is deprived by reason of such the violation, including interest, and an equal amount as liquidated
damages.
C.Any affected employee may register with the commission file a complaint with the commission that the wages paid to such the employee are less than the wages to which such the employee is entitled under this section.
D.The commission shall administer and enforce this section and take
all proceedings necessary to enforce the payment of any sums monies
found to be due and unpaid to such affected
employees. Acceptance of
payment in full made by an employer and approved by the commission constitutes
a waiver of the affected employee's right to a cause of action under subsection
E of this section.
E.Any employee receiving less than the wage to
which such the employee is entitled under this section
may recover in a civil action the balance of such the
wages, together with the
costs of suit including
interest, and an equal amount as liquidated damages, reasonable attorney fees
and costs, notwithstanding any agreement to work for a lesser
wage.
F.Any complaint
or civil action based upon
on or arising under this
section shall be instituted within six
months commenced not
later than two years after the date of the alleged violation, but in no event shall any employer be liable
for any pay due under this section for more than thirty days prior to receipt
by the employer of written notice of claim thereof from the employee except that a cause of action arising out of
a wilful violation shall be commenced not later than three years after the
alleged violation.
G.The burden of proof shall be upon is on the person bringing the claim to
establish that the differentiation in rate of pay is based upon on
the factor of sex and not upon
other differences, on
another factor or factors. 
H.If an
employee recovers amounts due to the employee under subsection B of this
section and also files a complaint or brings an action under 29 United States
Code section 206(d) that
results in additional recovery for the same violation, the employee shall
return to the employer the amounts recovered under subsection B of this section
or the amounts recovered under federal law, whichever is less. 
I.The
commission, with the consent of an employee or affected group of employees, may
initiate a civil action on behalf of the employee or affected group of
employees to recover unpaid wages and liquidated damages under subsection A of
this section, and the commission may recover court costs. The consent of any
employee pursuant to this subsection constitutes a waiver of the employee's
right to a cause of action under subsection E of this section, unless the civil
action brought pursuant to this subsection is dismissed without prejudice. An
employee may intervene in a civil action brought pursuant to this subsection or
initiate an independent action if the civil action has not been determined
within one hundred eighty days after the date the complaint is filed.
J.An
employer may not discharge or discriminate or retaliate against an employee who
takes action to invoke or assist in the enforcement of this section.
K.An
employer shall maintain records of wages and wage rates, job classifications
and other terms and conditions of employment of the employer's employees for a
period of three years.
L.The
commission shall keep confidential the name of any employee who files a
complaint with the commission for a violation of this section until the
commission validates the complaint, unless disclosure is necessary to
investigate the complaint. If the employee withdraws the complaint before the
employee's name is disclosed, the commission shall keep confidential the
employee's name. END_STATUTE

