







REFERENCE TITLE: G&F; heritage fund; expenditures







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1361









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin; Representatives Cardenas, Pratt: Senators Allen S, Driggs,
  Farnsworth D; Representatives Bowers, Mitchell





AN ACT

Amending section
17-298, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona Game and fish
commission heritage fund.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 17-298, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE17-298.Expenditures from fund; purpose and amounts; annual report
A.Monies received pursuant to section 5572
shall be spent as follows:
1.Five per
cent percent on
public access, including maintenance and operation expenses.
2.Sixty percent
percent on the
identification, inventory, acquisition, protection and management, including
maintenance and operations, of property
with sensitive habitat.At least forty per cent twenty percent of the monies available under
this paragraph shall be spent on the
acquisition of to acquire
property with sensitive habitat utilized
used by endangered, threatened and candidate species.Not more than twenty percent of the monies
available under this paragraph may be spent on the operation and maintenance of
the acquired property, including the acquired property's
infrastructure.The commission may dispose of any
lands acquired for use as habitat by an endangered, threatened or candidate
species under this paragraph when the species no longer qualifies as an
endangered, threatened or candidate species.The Arizona game and
fish commission shall dispose of the land in a manner consistent with the
preservation of the species of concern.The disposal may include
conservation easements and fee simple transfers with associated instruments of
protection.The commission shall follow the guidelines established
pursuant to section 37803 relating to the disposition of real property
by a state agency.In addition, disposal shall include a written
agreement between the commission and the purchaser requiring the purchaser to
incorporate management actions to ensure proper maintenance of the species of
concern.Management actions may include maintenance of habitat,
selective control of nonnative species, maintenance of genetic viability,
monitoring of populations and habitat, coordinating conservation activities,
funding conservation actions and assessing conservation progress.
3.Fifteen percent
percent on habitat
evaluation or habitat protection.
4.Fifteen percent
percent on urban wildlife
and urban wildlife habitat programs.
5.Five per
cent percent on
environmental education.
B.All monies earned as interest on monies received
pursuant to section 5572 shall be spent only in the percentages and for
the purposes described in subsection A of this section or for costs of
administering the Arizona game and fish commission heritage fund in such
amounts as determined by the Arizona game and fish commission.
C.On or before December 31, each
year the commission shall submit its annual report to the
president of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives and the
chairmen of the senate and house of representatives committees on natural
resources and agriculture, or their successor committees, and shall provide a copy of this report to the secretary
of state.The annual report shall include information
on:
1.The amount of monies spent or encumbered in the
fund during the preceding fiscal year and a summary of the projects, activities
and expenditures relating to:
(a)Property acquisition, operation and maintenance.
(b)Identification, inventory, protection and
management of sensitive habitat.
(c)Habitat evaluation and protection.
(d)Urban wildlife.
(e)Environmental education.
(f)Public access.
2.The number and location of parcels of property
acquired during the preceding fiscal year.
3.For personal and real properties acquired with
fund monies during the preceding fiscal year, the amount of property tax
revenue paid to each taxing jurisdiction during the last full tax year prior to
acquisition.
4.The amount of money spent from the fund during
the preceding fiscal year for employee personal services.
5.The number of fulltime employees employed
in the preceding fiscal year in connection with property acquisition, including
survey, appraisal and other related activities.
6.The total number of fulltime employees
employed in the preceding fiscal year for the programs listed in subsection A
of this section.
7.A list of the grants awarded during the preceding
fiscal year, including
information on the recipients, purposes and amounts. END_STATUTE

