







REFERENCE TITLE: board of trustees; disincorporation;
  repeal







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1316









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending sections
9201 and 9204, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing title 9,
chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 9911,
16104, 35321 and 361401, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to local form of government.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 9-201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-201.Elective officers in cities and towns of less than six
hundred voters; duties
A.In cities or towns that are not organized under
article 2, 3 or 4 of this
chapter and in which at the next preceding municipal election less than six
hundred votes were cast, the only officers shall be a mayor, a councilman from
each district and a marshal or chief of police.
B.The chief of police or marshal shall be is also ex officio city or town license tax collector,
poundmaster, street commissioner and fire warden, shall perform all duties as such and shall
receive in full compensation for all services a sum not exceeding not more than one hundred twentyfive
dollars per month. START_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 9-204, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-204.Officers in cities and towns of six hundred to eight
hundred fifty voters; terms of office; elections; removal
A.In all cities or towns not organized under
article 2, 3 or 4 of this
chapter, in which at the next preceding municipal election not more than eight
hundred fifty nor less than six hundred votes were cast, the only officers
shall be a mayor, four councilmen, a chief of police, a recorder who shall is also be
ex officio city auditor and police judge, and a treasurer.
B.The term of office of each officer, except
councilmen, shall be is two years.Each
councilman shall hold office for a term of four years. The recorder shall be
elected as other city or town officers.
C.Elections shall be held on the third Tuesday in May
of each oddnumbered year at which all officers whose terms have then
expired shall be elected.
D.The mayor and common council may remove an
officer for malfeasance in office. START_STATUTE
Sec.3.Repeal
Title 9, chapter 2,
article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.4.Section 9-911, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE9-911.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Board" means the police pension board.
2."Department" means the police
department.
3."Departmental member" means a member of
the police pension board chosen from among the members of the department other
than the chief of police.
4."Fund" means the police pension fund.
5."Governing body" means the city
commission, city or town council,
board of trustees or other governing body of the municipality.
6."Member" or "member of the
department" means a member of the police department, duly commissioned and
sworn as a peace officer with all the powers and duties thereof, and includes
all ranks and both sexes.Any person employed in the police
department who has actually contributed to the police pension fund prior to before the first day of January, 1964, and who
is not included within this definition, shall be allowed to continue to
contribute to the police pension fund and to receive the benefits conferred by
this article but all other persons are excluded. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 16-104, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-104.Registration in incorporated cities and towns
A.The
provisions of This chapter, except as it applies to registration
of absent electors, are is applicable to cities and
towns incorporated under a board of
trustees or common council government.
B.In the registration of electors other than absent
electors in a city or town incorporated under a board of trustees government or a common
council government, the city or town clerk shall have the same duties as to
registration as are imposed upon
on the county recorder by
the provisions of this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 35-321, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-321.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agency pool participant" means a
subdivision or an entity of a subdivision that has monies maintained by the
treasurer and that has the authority to draw negotiable instruments on the
treasurer or make other disbursements from monies that the treasurer holds for
the subdivision or entity.
2."Board of deposit" means, in the case
of a county, the board of supervisors, and in the case of a city or town, the board of trustees or common
council.
3."Capital structure" means the amount of
the capital of the eligible depository shown by the latest call statement of
condition as defined by rule of the superintendent of financial institutions
for the purpose of administration of this article.
4."Collecting entity" means the entity
from which the treasurer receives general funding including the county for
collections performed by a county treasurer, the city for collections performed
by a city treasurer or the district for collections performed by a district
treasurer.
5."Eligible depository" means any:
(a)Commercial or savings bank or savings and loan
association having either a branch in this state or its principal place of
business in this state and insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation
or its successor or any other insuring instrumentality of the United States
according to the applicable federal law.
(b)Credit union that is insured by the national
credit union administration or its successor.
6."Involuntary pool participant" means a
subdivision that only receives the principal ratio of the monies collected, for
which the principal monies are mandated to be distributed on a specific date
and for which the interest earned on the monies between the time of collection
and other statutory requirements reverts to the general fund of the collecting
entity.
7."Permissible rate of interest" means a
rate of interest which that an eligible financial
institution is permitted to pay by state or federal law or valid state rules or
federal regulations.
8."Public deposit" means public monies
deposited in an eligible depository pursuant to this article.
9."Public monies" includes subdivision
monies.
10."State monies" means all monies in the
treasury of this state or coming lawfully into the possession or custody of the
state treasurer.
11."Subdivision" means any county,
noncharter city or town. Cities governed by charter have the option of
operating under this article.
12."Subdivision monies" means all monies
in the treasury of a subdivision or coming lawfully into the possession or
custody of the treasurer.
13."Treasurer" includes the treasurer or
officer exercising the functions of treasurer of any subdivision but excludes
the state treasurer.
14."Trust funds" means those monies
entrusted to a public body or official for preservation and investment, as
prescribed by the instrument establishing such funds. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 36-1401, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-1401.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Area of operation" includes all the
territory of a city, town or county.
2."Authority", "public housing
authority", "public agency" or "housing authority"
means an agency of a city, town or county created and controlled pursuant to
this article.
3."Blighted area" means an area where
dwellings predominate that are detrimental to safety, health or morals because
they are dilapidated or overcrowded or lack ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities.
4."Bonds" means bonds, notes, interim
certificates, debentures or other obligations issued by a public housing
authority, city, town or county pursuant to this article.
5."Clerk" means the clerk of the board of
supervisors, the city or town clerk or the officer charged with the duties
customarily imposed on the clerk.
6."Federal government" includes the
United States, the United States department of housing and urban development or
any other agency or instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United
States.
7."Governing body" means the board of
commissioners of a public housing authority, the common council, board of trustees or other legislative body
of the city or town or the county board of supervisors.
8."Housing project":
(a)Means any work or undertaking:
(i)To demolish, clear or remove buildings from any
blighted area.Such work or undertaking may embrace the adoption of
the area to public purposes, including parks or other recreational or community
purposes.
(ii)To provide decent, safe and sanitary urban or
rural dwellings, apartments or other living accommodations for persons of low
income.Such work or undertaking may include buildings, land,
equipment, facilities and other real or personal property to be used for any
necessary, convenient or desirable appurtenances, streets, sewers, water
service, parks, site preparation, gardening, administrative, community, health,
recreational, welfare or other purposes and consistent with the provision of
housing pursuant to this article.
(iii)To accomplish a combination of the foregoing.
(b)Includes the planning and designing of buildings
and improvements, the acquisition or receipt of property, the demolition of
existing structures, the construction, reconstruction, alteration and repair of
the improvements and all other work in connection therewith.
9."Mayor" means the mayor of the city or
town or the officer thereof charged with the duties customarily imposed on the
mayor or executive head of a city or town.
10."Obligee" includes any holder of bonds
issued pursuant to this article, trustee or trustees for such bondholders, or
lessor demising to a public housing authority, city, town or county property
used in connection with a housing project, or an assignee or assignees of such
lessor's interest or any part thereof, and the federal government when it is a
party to a contract with a public housing authority, city, town or county in
regard to a housing project.
11."Persons of low income" means persons
or families who lack the amount of income which that is
necessary, as determined by the public housing authority, city, town or county
undertaking the housing project, to enable them, without financial assistance,
to live in decent, safe and sanitary dwellings without overcrowding.
12."Real property" includes all lands,
including improvements and fixtures on the land, and property of any nature
appurtenant to the land, or used in connection with the land, and every estate,
interest and right, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years and
liens by way of judgment, mortgage or otherwise and the indebtedness secured by
such liens.
13."State public body" means any public
housing authority, county, municipal corporation, commission, district,
authority or other subdivision or public body of the state. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Intent
It is the intent of the
legislature to repeal title 9, chapter 2, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes,
because, pursuant to a 2014 attorney general opinion, some of the voting
provisions, although potentially severable, were found to violate the equal
protection clause of the Constitution of the United States and election laws of
this state. Additionally, there have been no instances in the history of this
state where a county board of supervisors has disincorporated a city or town
and established a board of trustees government.

