







REFERENCE TITLE: motor fuel taxes







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1312









Introduced by
Senator
  Farley





AN ACT

Repealing
sections 28-5605 and 28-5606, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 28,
chapter 16, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding new sections 285605
and 28-5606; amending section 28-5610, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing
sections 28-5614 and 28-5623, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 28,
chapter 18, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 28-6535;
amending section 42-6004, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to motor fuel
taxes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Sections 28-5605 and
28-5606, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.2.Title 28, chapter 16, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding new sections 285605 and
28-5606, to read:
START_STATUTE28-5605.Road usage charge
The department shall:
1.Study
a road usage charge mileage-based revenue system, including a potential
demonstration program as an alternative to the motor fuel tax imposed by this
chapter.
2.Make
recommendations to the legislature and other policymaking bodies on the
potential use and future implementation of a road usage charge within this
state. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE28-5606.Motor fuel taxes; definition
A.Beginning on january 1, 2017, a tax
is imposed at the rate of twelve percent of the statewide average rack price of
a gallon of motor fuel per gallon on all motor fuel that is sold, used or
received for sale or use in this state.
B.Until
december 31, 2019 and subject to subsection C of this section, the statewide
average rack price of a gallon of motor fuel is determined by calculating the
previous fiscal year's statewide average rack price of a gallon of regular unleaded
motor fuel, excluding federal and state excise taxes, for the twelve months
ending on the previous june 30 as published by an oil pricing service.
C.Beginning
on january 1, 2020 and subject to subsection E of this section, the statewide
average rack price of a gallon of motor fuel is determined by calculating the
previous three fiscal years' statewide average rack price of a gallon of
regular unleaded motor fuel, excluding federal and state excise taxes, for the
thirty-six months ending on the previous june 30 as published by an oil pricing
service.
D.Subject
to subsection E of this section, the statewide average rack price of a gallon
of motor fuel determined under subsection B of this section may not be less
than two dollars forty-five cents per gallon.
E.Beginning
on a calendar year following the year that the actual statewide average rack
price of a gallon of motor fuel reaches two dollars forty-five cents before
applying the minimum under subsection D of this section, the department, on january
1, shall annually adjust the minimum statewide average rack price of a gallon
of motor fuel described in subsection D of this section by taking the minimum
statewide average rack price of a gallon of motor fuel for the previous
calendar year and adding an amount equal to the greater of either of the
following:
1.An
amount calculated by multiplying the minimum average rack price of a gallon of
motor fuel for the previous calendar year by the actual percentage change
during the previous fiscal year in the consumer price index.
2.Zero.
F.The
statewide average rack price of a gallon of motor fuel determined by the
department under subsection B of this section may not exceed three dollars
thirty-three cents per gallon. the department shall do all of the following
annually:
1.determine
the statewide average rack price of a gallon of motor fuel pursuant to
subsection B of this section.
2.Adjust
the fuel tax rate imposed under subsection A of this section, rounded to the
nearest one-tenth of one cent, based on the determination under subsection B of
this section.
3.Publish
the adjusted fuel tax as a cents per gallon rate.
4.Post
or otherwise make public the adjusted fuel tax rate as determined in paragraph
2 of this subsection within sixty days before the annual effective date under
subsection G of this section.
G.The
tax rate imposed under subsection A of this section and adjusted as required
under subsection F of this section takes effect on january 1 of each year.
H.in
lieu of the tax imposed under subsection A of this section and subject to this
section, a tax is imposed at the rate of threenineteenths of the rate
imposed under subsection A of this section, rounded up to the nearest penny, on
all motor fuels that are alternative fuels and that are sold, used or received
for sale or use in this state.
I.any
increase or decrease in tax rate applies to motor fuel that is imported into
this state or sold at refineries in this state on or after the effective date
of the rate change.
J.The
department may either collect no tax on motor fuel exported from this state or,
on application, refund the tax paid.
K.A
county by ordinance may levy a tax on wholesale motor fuel sold in that county
of not more than three percent of the total sale of motor vehicle fuel. this
subsection applies only to wholesale motor vehicle fuel that is to be resold at
retail.
L.For
the purposes of this section, "oil pricing service" means an entity
that does all of the following:
1.Publishes
wholesale petroleum prices within the United States.
2.Publishes
at least twenty-five thousand rack prices on a daily basis.
3.Receives
daily gasoline and diesel prices from at least one hundred thousand retail
outlets in the United States and Canada. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 28-5610, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5610.Exemptions
A.The following are exempt from motor vehicle fuel and use fuel taxes
imposed by section 285606 and aviation fuel taxes imposed by section 288344:
1.Motor fuel for which proof of export is available
in the form of a terminalissued destination state shipping paper or bill
of lading and that is either:
(a)Exported by a supplier who is licensed in the
destination state.
(b)Sold by a supplier to a distributor for
immediate export.
2.Motor fuel that was acquired by a distributor, as
to which the tax imposed by this article or section 288344 has
previously been paid or accrued and that was subsequently exported by transport
truck by or on behalf of the distributor in a diversion across state boundaries
properly reported to the department.If diverted by a distributor,
the distributor shall perfect the exemption by filing a refund application with
the department within six months after the diversion.
3.Motor vehicle fuel or use fuel that is sold
within an Indian reservation to an enrolled member of the Indian tribe who is
living on the Indian reservation established for the benefit of that Indian
tribe and that is used by the enrolled member for the enrolled member's own
benefit.This exemption does not apply to sales within an Indian
reservation by an Indian or Indian tribe to nonIndian consumers or to
Indian consumers who are not members of the Indian tribe for which the Indian
reservation was established or to use fuel used to operate motor vehicles for a
commercial purpose outside of the reservation on highways in this
state.For the purposes of this paragraph, "Indian" means
an individual who is registered on the tribal rolls of the Indian tribe for
whose benefit the Indian reservation was created.
4.Motor vehicle fuel or use fuel used solely and
exclusively as fuel to operate a motor vehicle on highways in this state if the
motor vehicle is leased to or owned by and is being operated for the sole
benefit of an Indian tribe for governmental purposes only.
5.Motor fuel that is moving in interstate or
foreign commerce and that is not destined or diverted to a point in this state.
6.Motor vehicle or aviation fuel that is sold to
the United States or an instrumentality or agency of the United States.
7.Taxable use fuel that has been accidentally
contaminated so as to be unsalable as highway fuel as proved by proper documentation.
8.Dyed diesel fuel, including fuel used by either
of the following:
(a)A farm tractor or implement of husbandry
designed primarily for or used in agricultural operations and only incidentally
operated or moved on a highway.
(b)A road roller or vehicle that is all of the
following:
(i)Designed and used primarily for grading, paving,
earthmoving or other construction work on a highway.
(ii)Not designed or used primarily for
transportation of persons or property.
(iii)Incidentally operated or moved over the
highway.
B.A use class
vehicle shall pay the use fuel tax for light class motor vehicles prescribed by
section 28-5606, subsection B, paragraph 1 if the vehicle is a truck and
satisfies all of the following:
1.Is at least
twenty-five years old.
2.Has been
issued a historic vehicle license plate pursuant to section 28-2484.
3.Is not used
as a commercial vehicle.
C.B.Notwithstanding
subsection A, paragraph 8 of this section, the following are not exempt from use motor fuel taxes imposed by section 285606:
1.A vehicle that was originally designed for the
transportation of persons or property and to which machinery is attached or on
which machinery or other property may be transported.
2.A dump truck.
3.A truck mounted transit mixer.
4.A truck or trailer mounted crane.
5.A truck or trailer mounted shovel.
D.C.Except
as provided in subsection E D of this section, a person
who claims an exemption pursuant to this section shall perfect the exemption by
claiming a refund pursuant to section 285612.
E.D.Subject
to sections 285645 through 285649, dyed diesel fuel is exempt
from use fuel taxes at the time of sale. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Repeal
Sections 28-5614 and
28-5623, Arizona Revised Statutes, are repealed.
Sec.5.Title 28, chapter 18, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 28-6535, to read:
START_STATUTE28-6535.Arizona highway user revenue fund distribution; county
fuel tax; counties; council of governments
By june 15 of each
fiscal year, the department shall allocate and transfer monies that are
deposited in the Arizona highway user revenue fund as a result of a
county-imposed fuel tax to the county in which the tax was
collected.The county shall transfer the monies to the council of
governments for that county. The council of governments shall distribute the
monies. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-6004, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-6004.Exemption from municipal tax; definitions
A.A city, town or special taxing district shall not
levy a transaction privilege, sales, use or other similar tax on:
1.Exhibition events in this state sponsored,
conducted or operated by a nonprofit organization that is exempt from taxation
under section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4) or 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code if
the organization is associated with a major league baseball team or a national
touring professional golfing association and no part of the organization's net
earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
2.Interstate telecommunications services, which
include that portion of telecommunications services, such as subscriber line
service, allocable by federal law to interstate telecommunications service.
3.Sales of warranty or service contracts.
4.Sales of motor vehicles to nonresidents of this
state for use outside this state if the motor vehicle dealer ships or delivers
the motor vehicle to a destination outside this state.
5.Interest on finance contracts.
6.Dealer documentation fees on the sales of motor
vehicles.
7.Sales of food or other items purchased with
United States department of agriculture food stamp coupons issued under the
food stamp act of 1977 (P.L. 95113; 91 Stat. 958) or food instruments
issued under section 17 of the child nutrition act (P.L. 95627; 92 Stat.
3603; P.L. 99661, section 4302; 42 United States Code section 1786) but
may impose such a tax on other sales of food. If a city, town or special
taxing district exempts sales of food from its tax or imposes a different
transaction privilege rate on the gross proceeds of sales or gross income from
sales of food and nonfood items, it shall use the definition of food prescribed
by rule adopted by the department pursuant to section 425106.
8.Orthodontic devices dispensed by a dental
professional who is licensed under title 32, chapter 11 to a patient as part of
the practice of dentistry.
9.Sales of internet access services to the person's
subscribers and customers. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Internet" means the computer and
telecommunications facilities that comprise the interconnected worldwide
network of networks that employ the transmission control protocol or internet
protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocol, to communicate information
of all kinds by wire or radio.
(b)"Internet access" means a service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services
over the internet. Internet access does not include telecommunication services
provided by a common carrier.
10.The gross proceeds of sales or gross income
retained by the Arizona exposition and state fair board from ride ticket sales
at the annual Arizona state fair.
11.Through
August 31, 2014, sales of Arizona centennial medallions by the historical
advisory commission.
12.11.Leasing real
property between affiliated companies, businesses, persons or reciprocal
insurers.For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated companies, businesses, persons
or reciprocal insurers" means the lessor holds a controlling interest in
the lessee, the lessee holds a controlling interest in the lessor, affiliated
persons hold a controlling interest in both the lessor and the lessee, or an
unrelated person holds a controlling interest in both the lessor and lessee.
(b)"Affiliated persons" means members of
the individual's family or persons who have ownership or control of a business
entity.
(c)"Controlling interest" means direct or
indirect ownership of at least eighty percent of the voting shares of a
corporation or of the interests in a company, business or person other than a
corporation.
(d)"Members of the individual's family"
means the individual's spouse and brothers and sisters, whether by whole or
half blood, including adopted persons, ancestors and lineal descendants.
(e)"Reciprocal insurer" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 20762.
13.12.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract for the installation,
assembly, repair or maintenance of machinery, equipment or other tangible
personal property that is described in section 425061, subsection B and
that has independent functional utility, pursuant to the following provisions:
(a)The deduction provided in this paragraph
includes the gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from all of the
following:
(i)Any activity performed on machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property with independent functional utility.
(ii)Any activity performed on any tangible personal
property relating to machinery, equipment or other tangible personal property
with independent functional utility in furtherance of any of the purposes
provided for under subdivision (d) of this paragraph.
(iii)Any activity that is related to the activities
described in items (i) and (ii) of this subdivision, including inspecting the
installation of or testing the machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property.
(b)The deduction provided in this paragraph does
not include gross proceeds of sales or gross income from the portion of any
contracting activity that consists of the development of, or modification to,
real property in order to facilitate the installation, assembly, repair,
maintenance or removal of machinery, equipment or other tangible personal
property described in section 425061, subsection B.
(c)The deduction provided in this paragraph shall
be determined without regard to the size or useful life of the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property.
(d)For the purposes of this paragraph,
"independent functional utility" means that the machinery, equipment
or other tangible personal property can independently perform its function
without attachment to real property, other than attachment for any of the
following purposes:
(i)Assembling the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property.
(ii)Connecting items of machinery, equipment or
other tangible personal property to each other.
(iii)Connecting the machinery, equipment or other
tangible personal property, whether as an individual item or as a system of
items, to water, power, gas, communication or other services.
(iv)Stabilizing or protecting the machinery,
equipment or other tangible personal property during operation by bolting,
burying or performing other dissimilar nonpermanent connections to either real
property or real property improvements.
14.13.The leasing or
renting of certified ignition interlock devices installed pursuant to the
requirements prescribed by section 281461. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "certified ignition interlock device" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 281301.
15.14.Computer data
center equipment purchased by the owner, operator or qualified colocation
tenant of the computer data center or an authorized agent of the owner,
operator or qualified colocation tenant during the qualification period for use
in a computer data center that is certified by the Arizona commerce authority
under section 411519. To qualify for this deduction, at the time of
purchase, the owner, operator or qualified colocation tenant must present to
the retailer its certificate that is issued pursuant to section 411519
and that establishes its qualification for the deduction.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "computer data center", "computer
data center equipment", "qualification period" and
"qualified colocation tenant" have the same meanings prescribed in
section 411519.
16.15.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a contract with the owner of
real property or improvements to real property for the maintenance, repair,
replacement or alteration of existing property, except as specified in this
paragraph. The gross proceeds of sales or gross income derived from a
deminimis amount of modification activity does not subject the contract
or any part of the contract to tax. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)Each contract is independent of another
contract, except that any change order that directly relates to the scope of
work of the original contract shall be treated the same as the original
contract under this chapter paragraph, regardless of the
amount of modification activities included in the change order. If a change
order does not directly relate to the scope of work of the original contract,
the change order shall be treated as a new contract, with the tax treatment of
any subsequent change order to follow the tax treatment of the contract to
which the scope of work of the subsequent change order directly relates.
(b)Any term not defined in this paragraph that is
defined in section 425075 has the same meaning prescribed in section 425075.
(c)This paragraph does not apply to a contract that
primarily involves surface or subsurface improvements to land and that is
subject to title 28, chapter 19, 20 or 22 or title 34, chapter 2 or 6 even if
the contract also includes vertical improvements. If a city or town imposes a
tax on contracts that are subject to procurement processes under those
provisions, the city or town shall include in the request for proposals a
notice to bidders when those projects are subject to the tax.This
subdivision does not apply to contracts with:
(i)Community facilities districts, fire districts,
county television improvement districts, community park maintenance districts,
cotton pest control districts, hospital districts, pest abatement districts,
health service districts, agricultural improvement districts, county free
library districts, county jail districts, county stadium districts, special
health care districts, public health services districts, theme park districts,
regional attraction districts or revitalization districts.
(ii)Any special taxing district not specified in
item (i) of this subdivision if the district does not substantially engage in
the modification, maintenance, repair, replacement or alteration of surface or
subsurface improvements to land.
17.16.Monitoring
services relating to an alarm system as defined in section 32101.
18.17.Tangible
personal property, job printing or publications sold to or purchased by, or
tangible personal property leased, rented or licensed for use to or by, a
qualifying health sciences educational institution as defined in section 425001.
19.18.The transfer of
title or possession of coal back and forth between an owner or operator of a
power plant and a person who is responsible for refining coal if both of the
following apply:
(a)The transfer of title or possession of the coal
is for the purpose of refining the coal.
(b)The title or possession of the coal is
transferred back to the owner or operator of the power plant after completion
of the coal refining process. For the purposes of this subdivision, "coal
refining process" means the application of a coal additive system that
aids the reduction of power plant emissions during the combustion of coal and
the treatment of flue gas.
20.19.The gross
proceeds of sales or gross income from sales of low or reduced cost articles of
food or drink to eligible elderly or homeless persons or persons with a
disability by a business subject to tax under section 425074 that contracts
with the department of economic security and that is approved by the food and
nutrition service of the United States department of agriculture pursuant to
the supplemental nutrition assistance program established by the food and
nutrition act of 2008 (P.L. 110-246; 122 Stat.1651; 7United States
Code sections 2011 through 2036a), if the purchases are made with the benefits
issued pursuant to the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
21.20.Tangible
personal property incorporated or fabricated into a project described in
paragraph 16 15 of this subsection, that is
located within the exterior boundaries of an Indian reservation for which the
owner, as defined in section 425075, of the project is an Indian tribe
or an affiliated Indian. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(a)"Affiliated Indian" means an
individual native American Indian who is duly registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was established.
(b)"Indian reservation" means all lands
that are within the limits of areas set aside by the United States for the
exclusive use and occupancy of an Indian tribe by treaty, law or executive
order and that are recognized as Indian reservations by the United States
department of the interior.
(c)"Indian tribe" means any organized
nation, tribe, band or community that is recognized as an Indian tribe by the
United States department of the interior and includes any entity formed under
the laws of that Indian tribe.
22.21.The charges for the
leasing or renting of space to make attachments to utility poles as follows:
(a)By a person that is engaged in the business of
providing or furnishing electrical services or telecommunication services or
that is a cable operator.
(b)To a person that is engaged in the business of
providing or furnishing electrical services or telecommunication services or
that is a cable operator.
B.Except as
provided in section 28-5606, a city, town or other taxing
jurisdiction shall not levy a transaction privilege, sales, use, franchise or
other similar tax or fee, however denominated, on natural gas or liquefied
petroleum gas used to propel a motor vehicle.
C.A city, town or other taxing jurisdiction shall
not levy a transaction privilege, sales, gross receipts, use, franchise or
other similar tax or fee, however denominated, on gross proceeds of sales or
gross income derived from any of the following:
1.A motor carrier's use on the public highways in
this state if the motor carrier is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28,
chapter 16, article4.
2.Leasing, renting or licensing a motor vehicle
subject to and on which the fee has been paid under title 28, chapter 16,
article 4.
3.The sale of a motor vehicle and any repair and
replacement parts and tangible personal property becoming a part of such motor
vehicle to a motor carrier who is subject to a fee prescribed in title 28,
chapter 16, article 4 and who is engaged in the business of leasing, renting or
licensing such property.
4.Incarcerating or detaining in a privately
operated prison, jail or detention facility prisoners who are under the
jurisdiction of the United States, this state or any other state or a political
subdivision of this state or of any other state.
5.Transporting for hire persons, freight or
property by light motor vehicles subject to a fee under title 28, chapter 15,
article 4.
6.Any amount attributable to development fees that
are incurred in relation to the construction, development or improvement of
real property and paid by the taxpayer as defined in the model city tax code or
by a contractor providing services to the taxpayer. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
(a)The attributable amount shall not exceed the
value of the development fees actually imposed.
(b)The attributable amount is equal to the total
amount of development fees paid by the taxpayer or by a contractor providing
services to the taxpayer and the total development fees credited in exchange
for the construction of, contribution to or dedication of real property for
providing public infrastructure, public safety or other public services
necessary to the development.The real property must be the subject
of the development fees.
(c)"Development fees" means fees imposed
to offset capital costs of providing public infrastructure, public safety or
other public services to a development and authorized pursuant to section 9463.05,
section 111102 or title 48 regardless of the jurisdiction to which the
fees are paid.
D.A city, town or other taxing jurisdiction shall
not levy a transaction privilege, sales, use, franchise or other similar tax or
fee, however denominated, in excess of one-tenth of one percent of the value of
the entire product mined, smelted, extracted, refined, produced or prepared for
sale, profit or commercial use, on persons engaged in the business of mineral
processing, except to the extent that the tax is computed on the gross proceeds
or gross income from sales at retail.
E.In computing the tax base, any city, town or
other taxing jurisdiction shall not include in the gross proceeds of sales or
gross income:
1.A manufacturer's cash rebate on the sales price
of a motor vehicle if the buyer assigns the buyer's right in the rebate to the
retailer.
2.The waste tire disposal fee imposed pursuant to
section 441302.
F.A city or town shall not levy a use tax on the
storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property in the city or town
by a school district or charter school.
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Cable operator" has the same meaning
prescribed by section 9505.
2."Electrical services" means
transmitting or distributing electricity, electric lights, current or power
over lines, wires or cables.
3."Telecommunication services" means
transmitting or relaying sound, visual image, data, information, images or
material over lines, wires or cables by radio signal, light beam, telephone,
telegraph or any other electromagnetic means.
4."Utility pole" means any wooden, metal
or other pole used for utility purposes and the pole's appurtenances that are
attached or authorized for attachment by the person controlling the pole. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Effective date
This act is effective from and after December 31, 2016.

