







REFERENCE TITLE: motorcycle safety fund; advisory council







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1359









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley, McGuire, Miranda; Representatives Borrelli, Fann, Gray, Hale, Rios,
  Velasquez: Senators Allen S, Dial, Quezada, Smith; Representatives Andrade,
  Kern





AN ACT

amending section
28-2010, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to motorcycles.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 28-2010, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-2010.Motorcycle safety fund; administration; advisory council
A.A motorcycle safety fund is established
consisting of monies deposited pursuant to subsection B of this section and
monies from gifts, grants and other donations. The director of the governor's
office of highway safety shall administer the fund. On notice from the
director of the governor's office of highway safety, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest monies in the fund as provided in section 35313, and
monies earned from investment shall be credited to the fund. Up to ten per cent percent of the monies in the fund may be used
for administrative costs. Monies in the fund are subject to legislative
appropriation and are exempt from the provisions of section 35190
relating to lapsing of appropriations.
B.Notwithstanding section 282004, through
June 30, 2016 2024, the director of the
department of transportation shall deposit, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, one dollar of each motorcycle registration fee collected
pursuant to section 282003 in the motorcycle safety fund.
C.Subject to legislative appropriation, the director
of the governor's office of highway safety shall use monies deposited in the
motorcycle safety fund pursuant to this section, after consultation with the
Arizona motorcycle safety advisory council, to implement and support voluntary
motorcycle education, awareness and other programs, including covering the cost
of materials for motorcycle safety, education and awareness programs.
D.Through June 30, 2016
2024, the Arizona motorcycle safety advisory council is
established consisting of five members who have experience in motorcycle safety
and who are appointed by the governor for three year terms. Members may be
removed for cause and may be reappointed. The council shall meet at least
quarterly and on the call of the director of the governor's office of highway
safety for advice on the expenditure of monies in the motorcycle safety fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Retroactivity
This act applies retroactively to from and after June 29, 2016.

