







REFERENCE TITLE: county employees; lobbying; prohibition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1336









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Andrade, Cardenas, Velasquez: Espinoza, Fernandez,
  Gabaldn, Mendez, Rios





AN ACT

Amending section
11-410, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to county employees.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-410, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-410.Use of county resources or employees to influence
elections; prohibitions; civil penalty; definitions
A.A county shall not spend or use its resources, including
the use or expenditure of monies, accounts, credit, facilities, vehicles,
postage, telecommunications, computer hardware and software, web pages,
personnel, equipment, materials, buildings or any other thing of value, for the
purpose of influencing the outcomes of elections.Notwithstanding
this section, a county may distribute informational pamphlets on a proposed
bond election as provided in section 35454 if those informational
pamphlets present factual information in a neutral manner.Nothing in
this section precludes a county from reporting on official actions of the
county board of supervisors.
B.The prohibition on the use of public resources to
influence the outcome of bond, budget override and other tax-related elections
includes the use of county-focused promotional expenditures that occur after an
election is called and through election day.This prohibition does
not include routine county communications.
C.This section does not prohibit the use of county
resources, including facilities and equipment, for government-sponsored forums
or debates if the government sponsor remains impartial and the events are
purely informational and provide an equal opportunity to all viewpoints. The
rental and use of a public facility by a private person or entity that may
lawfully attempt to influence the outcome of an election is permitted if it
does not occur at the same time and place as a government-sponsored forum or
debate.
D.Employees of a county shall not use the authority
of their positions to influence the vote or political activities of any
subordinate employee.
E.Employees of a county may not use county
resources, including computer hardware and software, for lobbying purposes
unless the county employee is an authorized public lobbyist or designated
public lobbyist of the county and is lobbying as a part of the county
employee's official duties.In addition to the penalties provided in
subsection G of this section, a violation of this subsection is cause for
disciplinary action or dismissal pursuant to the county's adopted personnel
policy. This subsection does not prohibit routine county communications that
are for informational purposes.
E.F.The
attorney general or the county attorney of the county in which an alleged
violation of this section occurred may initiate a suit in the superior court in
the county in which the alleged violation occurred for the purpose of complying
with this section. 
F.G.For each
violation of this section, the court may impose a civil penalty not to exceed
five thousand dollars plus any amount of misused funds subtracted from the
county budget against a person who knowingly violates or aids another person in
violating this section. The person determined to be out of compliance with
this section is responsible for the payment of all penalties and misused
funds. County funds or insurance payments shall not be used to pay these
penalties or misused funds.All misused funds collected pursuant to
this section shall be returned to the county whose funds were misused.
G.H.Nothing contained
in this section shall be construed as denying the civil and political liberties
of any employee as guaranteed by the United States and Arizona Constitutions. 
H.I.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Authorized
public lobbyist" has the same meaning prescribed in section 411231.
2."Designated
public lobbyist" has the same meaning prescribed in section 411231.
1.3."Government-sponsored
forum or debate" means any event, or part of an event or meeting, in which
the government is an official sponsor, which is open to the public or to
invited members of the public, and whose purpose is to inform the public about
an issue or proposition that is before the voters.
2.4."Influencing
the outcomes of elections" means supporting or opposing a candidate for
nomination or election to public office or the recall of a public officer or
supporting or opposing a ballot measure, question or proposition, including any
bond, budget or override election and supporting or opposing the circulation of
a petition for the recall of a public officer or a petition for a ballot
measure, question or proposition in any manner that is not impartial or
neutral.
5."Lobbying"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 411231.
3.6."Misused
funds" means county monies or resources used unlawfully as proscribed by
this section. 
4.7."Routine
county communications" means messages or advertisements that are germane
to the functions of the county and that maintain the frequency, scope and
distribution consistent with past practices or are necessary for public safety.
END_STATUTE

