







REFERENCE TITLE: fuel taxes; exemption; Navajo
  reservation







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1384









Introduced by
Senator
  Begay





AN ACT

amending section
28-5610, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to motor fuel taxes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section
28-5610, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-5610.Exemptions
A.The following are
exempt from motor vehicle fuel and use fuel taxes imposed by section 285606
and aviation fuel taxes imposed by section 288344:
1.Motor fuel for which
proof of export is available in the form of a terminalissued destination
state shipping paper or bill of lading and that is either:
(a)Exported by a
supplier who is licensed in the destination state.
(b)Sold by a supplier
to a distributor for immediate export.
2.Motor fuel that was
acquired by a distributor, as to which the tax imposed by this article or
section 288344 has previously been paid or accrued and that was
subsequently exported by transport truck by or on behalf of the distributor in
a diversion across state boundaries properly reported to the
department.If diverted by a distributor, the distributor shall
perfect the exemption by filing a refund application with the department within
six months after the diversion.
3.Except as provided in paragraph 9 of this subsection, motor vehicle fuel or use
fuel that is sold within an Indian reservation to an enrolled member of the
Indian tribe who is living on the Indian reservation established for the
benefit of that Indian tribe and that is used by the enrolled member for the
enrolled member's own benefit.This exemption does not apply to
sales within an Indian reservation by an Indian or Indian tribe to nonIndian
consumers or to Indian consumers who are not members of the Indian tribe for
which the Indian reservation was established or to use fuel used to operate
motor vehicles for a commercial purpose outside of the reservation on highways
in this state.For the purposes of this paragraph,
"Indian" means an individual who is registered on the tribal rolls of
the Indian tribe for whose benefit the Indian reservation was created.
4.Motor vehicle fuel or
use fuel used solely and exclusively as fuel to operate a motor vehicle on
highways in this state if the motor vehicle is leased to or owned by and is
being operated for the sole benefit of an Indian tribe for governmental
purposes only.
5.Motor fuel that is
moving in interstate or foreign commerce and that is not destined or diverted
to a point in this state.
6.Motor vehicle or
aviation fuel that is sold to the United States or an instrumentality or agency
of the United States.
7.Taxable use fuel that
has been accidentally contaminated so as to be unsalable as highway fuel as
proved by proper documentation.
8.Dyed diesel fuel,
including fuel used by either of the following:
(a)A farm tractor or
implement of husbandry designed primarily for or used in agricultural
operations and only incidentally operated or moved on a highway.
(b)A road roller or
vehicle that is all of the following:
(i)Designed and used
primarily for grading, paving, earthmoving or other construction work on a
highway.
(ii)Not designed or
used primarily for transportation of persons or property.
(iii)Incidentally
operated or moved over the highway.
9.Motor
vehicle fuel or use fuel that is sold within the Navajo reservation.
B.A use class vehicle
shall pay the use fuel tax for light class motor vehicles prescribed by section
28-5606, subsection B, paragraph 1 if the vehicle is a truck and satisfies all
of the following:
1.Is at least
twenty-five years old.
2.Has been issued a
historic vehicle license plate pursuant to section 28-2484.
3.Is not used as a
commercial vehicle.
C.Notwithstanding
subsection A, paragraph 8 of this section, the following are not exempt from
use fuel taxes imposed by section 285606:
1.A vehicle that was
originally designed for the transportation of persons or property and to which
machinery is attached or on which machinery or other property may be
transported.
2.A dump truck.
3.A truck mounted
transit mixer.
4.A truck or trailer
mounted crane.
5.A truck or trailer
mounted shovel.
D.Except as provided in
subsection E of this section, a person who claims an exemption pursuant to this
section shall perfect the exemption by claiming a refund pursuant to section 285612.
E.Subject to sections
285645 through 285649, dyed diesel fuel is exempt from use fuel
taxes at the time of sale.END_STATUTE

