







REFERENCE TITLE: adoption; birth parent information;
  release







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1379









Introduced by
Senators
  Burges: Allen S, Barto, Begay, Farnsworth D, Miranda, Shooter, Smith; Representatives
  Gray, Kern, Lawrence, Leach, Livingston





AN ACT

amending sections
8120 and 8121, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 8,
chapter 1, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 8136;
relating to adoption.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-120, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-120.Records; inspection; exception; destruction or transfer of
certain records
A.Except as provided in section 8129 or 8136, all files,
records, reports and other papers compiled under this article, whether filed in
or in possession of the court, an agency or any person or association, shall be
withheld from public inspection.
B.Such files, records, reports and other papers may
be open to inspection by persons and agencies having a legitimate interest in
the case and their attorneys and by other persons and agencies having a
legitimate interest in the protection, welfare or treatment of the child if so
ordered by the court.
C.This section does not prohibit persons employed
by the court, the division or an agency from conducting the investigations or
performing other duties pursuant to this article within the normal course of
their employment.
D.This section does not prohibit persons employed
by the court, the division, an attorney participating or assisting in a direct
placement adoption pursuant to section 8130 or an agency from providing
partial or complete identifying information between a birth parent and adoptive
parent when the parties mutually agree to share specific identifying
information and make a written request to the court, the division or the
agency.
E.Except for files that belong to an attorney, all
files, records, reports and other papers not filed in or in the possession of
the court shall not be destroyed until after a ninetynine year period.
The files that belong to an attorney shall not be destroyed until after a
seven-year period.
F.If an adoption agency ceases operations, the
adoption agency shall do all of the following:
1.Transfer the documents described in subsection A
of this section to the division or to another adoption agency in this state if
the documents concern a matter that is closed.
2.Transfer the documents described in subsection A
of this section to another adoption agency in this state if the documents
concern a matter that is open.
3.Notify the division of the transfer of any
documents to another adoption agency in this state pursuant to this subsection.
4.Notify all adoptive parents whose files it is
transferring pursuant to this subsection of the transfer. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-121.Confidentiality of information; exceptions
A.It is unlawful, except for purposes for which
files and records or social records or parts thereof or information therefrom
have been released pursuant to subsection C of this section or section 8120,
8129, or 8134 or 8136, or except for purposes
permitted by order of the court, for any person to disclose, receive or make
use of, or authorize, knowingly permit, participate in or acquiesce in the use
of, any information involved in any proceeding under this article directly or
indirectly derived from the files, records, reports or other papers compiled
pursuant to this article, or acquired in the course of the performance of
official duties until one hundred years after the date of the order issued
pursuant to section 8116. After one hundred years has elapsed from the
date of the order issued pursuant to section 8116 the court shall
transfer all files, records, reports and other documents in possession of the
court relating to the adoption to the Arizona state library, archives and
public records. The items transferred pursuant to this subsection shall be
available for public inspection during business hours and may be made available
in an alternative format.
B.The
provisions of This section shall
does not be construed to prohibit persons employed by
the court, the division or an agency from conducting the investigations or
performing other duties pursuant to this article within the normal course of
their employment.
C.This section does not prohibit persons employed
by the court, the division, an attorney participating or assisting in a direct
placement adoption pursuant to section 8130 or an agency from providing
partial or complete identifying information between a birth parent and adoptive
parent when the parties mutually agree to share specific identifying
information and make a written request to the court, the division or the agency.
D.A person may petition the court to obtain
information relating to an adoption in the possession of the court, the
division or any agency or attorney involved in the
adoption.Nonidentifying information may be released by the court
pursuant to section 8129.The court shall not release
identifying information unless the person requesting the information has
established a compelling need for disclosure of the information or consent has
been obtained pursuant to subsection E of this section or from the birth parent
pursuant to section 8106.If a compelling need for disclosure
of information is established, the court may decide what information, if any,
should be disclosed and to whom and under what conditions disclosure may be
made.
E.An adoptee who is eighteen years of age or older
or a birth parent may file at any time with the court and the agency, division
or attorney who participated in the adoption a notarized statement granting
consent, withholding consent or withdrawing a consent previously given for the
release of confidential information.If an adoptee who is eighteen
years of age or older and the birth mother or birth father have filed a
notarized statement granting consent to the release of confidential
information, the court may disclose information, except identifying information
relating to a birth parent who did not grant written consent, to the adoptee or
birth parent.
F.This section does not prohibit a person from
notifying a birth parent of the death of a child that the birth parent has
placed for adoption.END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 8, chapter 1, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 8-136, to read:
START_STATUTE8-136.Adoption agency records; release; definitions
A.Sections
8120 and 8121 do not prohibit an adoption service provider from
sharing birth parent database information described in subsection B of this
section with other adoption service providers in the United States to prevent
or mitigate fraudulent birth parent activities.
B.The
following information may be released pursuant to subsection A of this section:
1.For the
birth mother, all potential birth fathers or the legal father or all of these individuals,
any of the following:
(a)First name.
(b)First two initials of the last
name.
(c)City and state of residence.
(d)Age.
2.Due date
of the birth of the baby.
3.The name
of the adoption agency.
4.The date
the representation of or assistance to the birth mother began.
5.The date
the representation of the birth mother ended.
6.The
reason the representation ended.
C.If there
is suspected or confirmed multiple representation, discontinued services or
misrepresentation, an adoption service provider may contact and release as much
information to another adoption service provider or an adopting family to
mitigate or prevent fraud. information released to an adopting family pursuant
to this section is limited to the full names of the birth parents and the names
of all adoption service providers involved in the adoption.
D.An
adoption service provider may contact and release to an attorney, a law
enforcement agency, the county attorney or the attorney general as much
information as necessary to seek civil or criminal remedies.
e.for the
purposes of this section:
1."adoption
service provider" means an adoption agency, adoption facilitator or
adoption consultant that represents or assists a birth parent or an adopting
family.
2."prevent
fraud" includes to take proactive measures to confirm that the birth
parent is not engaging in multiple representation, discontinued services or
misrepresentation. END_STATUTE

