







REFERENCE TITLE: body art establishments; minimum
  standards







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1374









Introduced by
Senator
  Lesko





AN ACT

Amending title
36, chapter 1, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 36145;
relating to the public health.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 36, chapter 1, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 36-145, to read:
START_STATUTE36-145.Body art establishments; minimum standards; local public
health departments; definitions
A.The
department of health services shall coordinate with local public health
departments to establish minimum standards regarding the following relating to
body art establishments and body art establishment operators:
1.Proper
disposal of equipment.
2.Sterilization
of equipment and surface areas.
3.Bloodborne
pathogen training requirements as provided by the occupational safety and
health administration, including:
(a)Training on exposure control and infection prevention in the
body art setting as approved by the department of health services.
(b)Training materials specific to performing body art that
include a copy of the occupational safety and health administration bloodborne
pathogen standard (29 Code of Federal Regulations section 1910.1030) and a copy
and explanation of applicable county, city or town ordinances that pertain to
bloodborne pathogen transmission control in body art.
(c)Information on signage required for biohazardous materials
and the importance of properly labeling chemicals and supplies.
B.County
standards for body art establishments shall be at least as stringent as those
prescribed by the department pursuant to subsection A of this section.
C.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Body
art":
(a)Means the practice of physical body adornment by tattooing,
cosmetic tattooing, permanent skin coloring, branding or scarification.
(b)Does not include practices that are considered to be medical
procedures by a state medical board, practices that are noninvasive forms of
painting through the use of dyes or inks or practices considered by the board
of cosmetology to be aesthetics, cosmetology or nail technology.
2."Body
art establishment" means any place where body art is performed, whether or
not for profit, and that is under the direction of a body art establishment
operator.
3."Body
art establishment operator" means a person who controls, operates, manages
or practices body art activities at a body art establishment.
4."Local
public health department" means a local health department established
pursuant to article 4 of this chapter or a county environmental department.
5."Tattooing"
means any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin or
mucosa to permanently color the skin or mucosa by using needles or any other
instrument to puncture the skin. Tattooing includes all forms of cosmetic
tattooing and permanent skin coloring such as eyeliner, eyebrows, lip liner,
full lip color, repigmentation or camouflage. END_STATUTE

