







REFERENCE TITLE: retirement savings; employees







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1332









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Cardenas, Velasquez: Fernandez





AN ACT

amending title
23, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 10; relating to the Arizona
secure choice retirement savings trust act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title
23, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding chapter 10, to read:
CHAPTER 10
ARIZONA SECURE CHOICE
RETIREMENT SAVINGS TRUST ACT
ARTICLE
1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE23-1601.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Arizona secure choice retirement savings
program" or "program" means a retirement savings program that
the Arizona secure choice retirement savings trust offers.
2."Board" means the Arizona secure choice
retirement savings board.
3."Department" means the labor department of
the industrial commission of Arizona.
4."Eligible employee":
(a)Means
an individual who is employed by an eligible employer.
(b)Does
not include:
(i)Any
employee who is covered under the Railway Labor Act (45 United States code
section 151) or any employee who is engaged in interstate commerce and who is
not subject to the legislative powers of this state except as authorized under
the united states constitution or federal law.
(ii)Any
employee who is eligible to participate in a qualifying retirement plan or
arrangement that is described in 26 united states code section 219(g)(5) or an automatic payroll
deduction ira that the employee's employer maintains or offers.
(iii)any
employee who was eligible to participate in a plan, arrangement or automatic
payroll deduction ira under item (ii) of this subdivision at any time during the preceding two calendar
years but the plan or arrangement was terminated or frozen at any time during
the preceding two calendar years or the employer ceased to offer the automatic
enrollment payroll deduction ira at any time during the preceding two calendar
years.
(iv)any
employee who is covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expressly
provides for the employer to contribute to a multiemployer retirement plan
described in 26 united states code section 414(f).
(v)any
employee who is under eighteen years of age before the beginning of the
calendar year.
5."Eligible employer" means a person or entity
that is engaged in a business, industry, profession, trade or other enterprise
in this state, whether forprofit or nonprofit, excluding the federal
government, this state, any county, any municipal corporation or any of this
state's units or instrumentalities, and that has five or more employees, but
does not include any employer that has not been in business at all times during
the calendar year and the preceding calendar year.
6."IRA" means an individual retirement account
or individual retirement annuity under 26 United States Code Section 408(a) or (b).
7."Participating employer" means an eligible
employer or any other employer that provides a payroll deposit retirement
savings arrangement for eligible employees pursuant to this chapter.
8."Payroll deposit retirement savings
arrangement" means an arrangement by which an employer allows employees to
remit payroll deduction contributions to a retirement savings program.
9."Trust" means the Arizona secure choice
retirement savings trust that is established by this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE231602.Arizona secure choice retirement savings trust; funds;
investment 
A.The Arizona secure choice retirement savings trust is
established. The board shall administer the trust for the purpose of promoting
greater retirement savings for private employees in this state in a convenient,
voluntary, lowcost and portable manner.
B.The board shall segregate monies that the trust
receives into two funds that shall be identified as the program fund and the
administrative fund. Monies in the trust are continuously appropriated to the
board for the purposes of this chapter.
C.Monies in the trust may be invested or reinvested by
the state treasurer pursuant to section 35313 or may be invested in
whole or in part under a contract with the arizona state retirement system or
by private money managers, or both, as the board determines.
D.All costs of the administration of the trust shall be
paid out of the administrative fund. The board may transfer monies from the
program fund to the administrative fund for the purpose of paying operating
costs that are associated with the administration of the trust and as required
by this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1603.Arizona secure choice retirement savings board; members;
compensation; fiduciary duty; investment policy
A.The Arizona secure choice retirement savings board is
established and consists of the following seven members:
1.The state treasurer or the treasurer's designee.
2.The director of the department of financial
institutions or the director's designee.
3.An individual with retirement savings and investment
expertise who is appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.
4.A small business representative who is appointed by
the governor.
5.two public members who are appointed by the governor.
6.An employee representative who is appointed by the
president of the senate.
B.The state treasurer shall serve as the chairperson of
the board.
C.Members of the board are not eligible to receive
compensation but are eligible to receive reimbursement of expenses pursuant to
Title 38, chapter 4, article 2.
d.board members, the program administrator and other
staff shall discharge their duties with respect to the trust solely in the
interest of the program participants as follows:
1.For the exclusive purposes of providing benefits to
the program participants and defraying reasonable expenses of administering the
program.
2.by investing with the care, skill, prudence and
diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent person that
acts in a like capacity and that is familiar with those matters would use in
the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims.
3.any contributions that employees and employers pay
into the trust shall be used exclusively for the purpose of paying benefits to
the participants of the program, for the cost of administration of the program
and for making investments for the benefit of the program.
e.The board shall annually prepare and adopt a written
statement of investment policy that includes a risk management and oversight
program. The requirements are as follows:
1.The investment policy must mitigate risk by
maintaining a balanced investment portfolio that provides assurance that a
single investment or class of investments will not have a disproportionate impact
on the total portfolio.
2.The risk management and oversight program must be
designed to ensure that an effective risk management system is in place to
monitor the risk levels of the program's investment portfolio and that the
risks taken are prudent and properly managed. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE231604.Arizona secure choice retirement savings program;
allocations; benefit; implementation
A.The Arizona secure choice retirement savings program
is established and includes, as the board determines, one or more payroll
deposit retirement savings arrangements.
B.Interest, earnings and losses must be allocated to
program accounts as the board prescribes.
c.An individual's retirement savings benefit under the
program must be an amount that is equal to the balance in the individual's
program account on the date that the retirement savings benefit becomes
payable.
d.The board may not implement the program if the IRA arrangements
that are offered fail to qualify for the favorable federal income tax treatment
that is ordinarily accorded to IRAs under the internal revenue code or if it is
determined that the program is an employee benefit plan under the employee
retirement income security act of 1974 (29 United States Code chapter 18). END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1605.State of Arizona; immunity from liability
This state is not liable for the
payment of the retirement savings benefit that the program participants earn
pursuant to this chapter.Any financial liability for the payment of
benefits in excess of monies that are available under the program is borne by
the entities with whom the board contracts to provide an insurance, annuity or
other funding mechanism to protect the value of individuals' accounts pursuant
to section 231608. This state, and any of the funds of this state, have
no obligation for payment of the benefits that arise from this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1606.Board; powers; rules
a.The board, in the capacity of trustee, may do all of
the following:
1.Establish one or more payroll deposit ira
arrangements.
2.Make and enter into contracts that are necessary for
the administration of the trust.
3.Adopt a seal and change and amend it from time to
time.
4.Cause monies in the trust to be held, invested and
reinvested.
5.Accept any grants, gifts, legislative appropriations
and other monies from this state, any unit of federal, state or local
government or any other person, firm, partnership or corporation for deposit in
the trust.
6.employ staff, Appoint a program administrator,
determine the duties of the program administrator and other staff as necessary
and set their compensation.
7.Make provisions for the payment of costs of
administration and operation of the trust.
8.evaluate and establish the process by which an
eligible employee of an eligible employer is able to contribute a portion of
the employee's salary to the program for automatic deposit of those
contributions and the participating employer provides a payroll deposit
retirement savings arrangement to forward the employee contribution and related
information to the program or its agents.
9.evaluate and consider existing processes and
arrangements for the deposit and administration of tax that is required to be
deducted and withheld that relate to the collection of income tax at source on
wages or for the deposit of tax that is required to be paid under the
unemployment insurance system.
10.Retain and contract with the ASRS
board that is established by section 38713, private financial
institutions, other financial and service providers, consultants, actuaries,
counsel, auditors, third-party administrators and other professionals as
necessary.
11.design and establish the process for
the enrollment of program participants.
12.allow participating employers to use
the program to remit employees' contributions to their individual retirement
accounts on their employees' behalf.
13.Procure insurance against any loss in
connection with the property, assets or activities of the trust and secure
private underwriting and reinsurance to manage risk and insure the retirement
savings rate of return.
14.Procure insurance that indemnifies
each member of the board from personal loss or liability that results from a
member's action or inaction as a member of the board.
15.Set minimum and maximum investment
levels in accordance with contribution limits that are set for IRAs by the
internal revenue code.
16.Arrange for collective, common and
pooled investment of assets of the retirement savings program or arrangements,
including investments in conjunction with other funds with which those assets
are permitted to be collectively invested, to achieve cost savings through
efficiencies and economies of scale.
17.allocate administrative fees to each
individual retirement account on a pro rata basis.
18.Explore and establish investment
options that offer employees returns on contributions and the conversion of
individual retirement savings account balances to secure retirement income
without incurring debt or liabilities to this state.
19.If necessary, determine the
eligibility of an employer, employee or other individual to participate in the
program.
20.Evaluate and establish the process by
which an individual or an employee of a nonparticipating employer may enroll in
and make contributions to the program.
21.explore and establish separate
investment options as prescribed by the board that comply with the internal
revenue code and employee retirement income security act of 1974 provisions
that enable voluntary employer contributions on behalf of employees into
accounts to be managed alongside the program's ira accounts under section 401(a) of the internal
revenue code.
22.Carry out the duties and obligations
of the trust pursuant to this chapter and exercise all other powers that are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes, objectives and provisions of this
chapter that pertain to the trust.
B.The board shall adopt rules that it deems necessary to
implement this Chapter and that are consistent with the internal revenue code
and regulations that are issued pursuant to that code and to ensure that the
program meets all criteria for federal tax-deferral or tax-exempt benefits, or
both. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1607.Annual audited financial report
The board shall publish an annual audited financial report, prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, on the operations
of the trust.The annual audit shall be made by an independent
certified public accountant and shall include direct and indirect costs that
are attributable to the use of outside consultants, independent contractors and
any other individuals who are not state employees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1608.Funding mechanism; indemnification
The board shall ensure that an insurance, annuity or other funding
mechanism is in place at all times that protects the value of individuals'
accounts. The funding mechanism must protect, indemnify and hold this state
harmless at all times against any and all liability that is in connection with
funding retirement benefits pursuant to this chapter. The costs of the funding
mechanism must be paid out of the funds that are held in the trust and may not
be attributed to the administrative costs of the board in operating the trust. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1609.Employee information packet; disclosure form; opt-out form
A.Before opening the Arizona secure choice retirement
savings program for enrollment, the board shall design and disseminate an
employee information packet to employers through the department.The
packet must include background information on the program and appropriate
disclosures for employees.
B.The disclosure form must include all of the following:
1.The benefits and risks that are associated with making
contributions to the program.
2.How to make contributions to the program.
3.How to opt out of the program, including an optout
form.
4.The process for withdrawal of retirement savings.
5.How to obtain additional information on the program.
C.In addition, the disclosure form must clearly
articulate that:
1.Employees seeking financial advice should contact
financial advisers, that employers are not in a position to provide financial
advice and that employers are not liable for decisions employees make pursuant
to section 231606, subsection A, paragraph 21.
2.The program is not an employer-sponsored retirement
plan.
3.The program fund is privately insured and is not
guaranteed by this State. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1610.Arizona secure choice retirement savings program;
enrollment; contribution
A.After the board opens the Arizona secure choice
retirement savings program for enrollment, any employer may choose to have a
payroll deposit retirement savings arrangement to allow employee participation
in the program.
B.Beginning three months after the board opens the
program for enrollment, eligible employers that have more than one hundred
eligible employees and that do not offer an employer-sponsored retirement plan
or automatic enrollment payroll deduction IRA shall have a payroll deposit
retirement savings arrangement to allow eligible employee participation in the
program.
C.Beginning six months after the board opens the program
for enrollment, eligible employers that have more than fifty eligible employees
and that do not offer an employer-sponsored retirement plan or automatic
enrollment payroll deduction IRA shall have a payroll deposit retirement savings
arrangement to allow eligible employee participation in the program.
D.Beginning nine months after the board opens the
program for enrollment, all other eligible employers that do not offer an
employersponsored retirement plan or automatic enrollment payroll
deduction IRA shall have a payroll deposit retirement savings arrangement to
allow eligible employee participation in the program.
E.Each eligible employee shall be enrolled in the
program unless the employee elects not to participate in the program. An
eligible employee may elect to opt out of the program by making a notation on
the opt-out form prescribed by section 231609.
F.Following initial implementation of the program
pursuant to this section, at least once every year, participating employers
shall designate an open enrollment period during which eligible employees that
previously opted out of the program shall be enrolled in the program unless the
employee again elects to opt out pursuant to subsection E of this section.
G.An employee who elects to opt out of the program and
who subsequently chooses to participate through the employer's payroll deposit
retirement savings arrangement may enroll only during the employer's designated
open enrollment period or, if the employer permits, at an earlier time.
H.Employers shall retain the option at all times to set
up any type of employer-sponsored retirement plan, including a defined benefit
plan or 401(k),
simplified employee pension plan or savings incentive match plan for employees,
or offer an automatic enrollment payroll deduction ira instead of having a
payroll deposit retirement savings arrangement to allow employee participation
in the Arizona secure choice retirement savings program.
I.An eligible employee may terminate the employee's
participation in the program at any time in a manner that is prescribed by the
board and thereafter by making a notation on the opt-out form prescribed by
section 231609.
J.Unless otherwise specified by the employee, a
participating employee shall contribute three percent of the employee's annual
salary or wages to the program.
K.By rule, the board may adjust the contribution amount
set in subsection J of this section to not less than two percent and not more
than four percent and may vary that amount within that range for participating
employees according to the length of time the employee has contributed to the
program. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1611.Employers; immunity
A.Employers are not liable for an employee's decision to
participate in, or opt out of, the Arizona secure choice retirement savings
program or for the investment decisions of employees who have assets that are
deposited in the program.
B.An employer is not a fiduciary or considered to be a
fiduciary over the trust or the program.An employer is not
responsible for the administration, investment or investment performance of the
program.An employer is not liable with regard to investment returns,
program design and benefits that are paid to the program participants.
C.An employer's voluntary contribution under section 231606,
subsection A, paragraph 21 does not in any way contradict this section or
change the employer's relationship to the program or an employer's obligations
to employees. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1612.Employers; payments
The employer shall pay employee contributions that the employer deducts
through payroll deduction to the trust using a process that is established by
the board as follows:
1.on or before the last day of the month following the
month in which the compensation otherwise would have been payable to the
employee in cash.
2.before a deadline set by the board that is later than
the date that is provided in paragraph 1 of this section but not later than the
due date for the deposit of tax that is required to be deducted and withheld
for the collection of income tax at source on wages or for the deposit of tax
that is required to be paid under the unemployment insurance system for that
payroll period. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1613.Enforcement; civil penalties
A.The department may enforce employer compliance with
this act.
b.After due process, the department may impose penalties
against eligible employers for failure to comply with section 231610,
subsections b, c and d as determined by the board. proceeds of penalties after
deducting the department's enforcement expenses shall be deposited for the
benefit of the trust.
c.After due process, the department may impose penalties
against employers that are equal to lost earnings and interest on contributions
made later than the deadlines prescribed in section 231612. The
department shall abide by the following:
1.the department shall prescribe a methodology for
calculating lost earnings and interest.
2.proceeds of the penalties must be deposited for the
benefit of the trust and credited to the iras of
the affected employees on a pro rata basis. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1614.Program termination
The program that is established by this chapter ends on July 1, 2026
pursuant to section 413102. END_STATUTE

