







REFERENCE TITLE: motor vehicle dealer licensing







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1358









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley, Sherwood: Begay, Burges, Dial; Representatives Andrade, Borrelli,
  Fann, Fernandez, Gray





AN ACT

amending sections
6-126, 28-4302, 44-281, 44-282 and 44-294, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating
to vehicle dealers.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 6-126, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE6-126.Application fees for financial institutions and
enterprises
A.The following nonrefundable fees are payable to
the department with the filing of the following applications:
1.To apply for a banking permit, five thousand
dollars.
2.To apply for an amendment to a banking or savings
and loan association permit, one thousand dollars.
3.To establish each banking branch office, seven
hundred fifty dollars.
4.To move a banking office to other than an
established office of a bank, one thousand dollars.
5.To apply for a savings and loan association
permit, five thousand dollars.
6.To establish each savings and loan association
branch office, one thousand five hundred dollars.
7.To move an office of a savings and loan
association to other than an established office, one thousand dollars.
8.To organize and establish a credit union, one
hundred dollars.
9.To establish each credit union branch or to move
a credit union office to other than an established office of a credit union,
two hundred fifty dollars.
10.To organize and establish any other financial
institutions for which an application or investigation fee is not otherwise provided
by law, two thousand five hundred dollars.
11.To acquire control of a financial institution,
other than a consumer lender, five thousand dollars.
12.To apply for a trust company license, five
thousand dollars.
13.To apply for a commercial mortgage banker,
mortgage banker, escrow agent or consumer lender license, one thousand five
hundred dollars.
14.To apply for a mortgage broker, commercial
mortgage broker, sales finance company or debt management company license,
eight hundred dollars.
15.To apply for a collection agency license, one
thousand five hundred dollars.
16.To apply for a deferred presentment company
license, one thousand dollars.
17.To apply
for a motor vehicle dealer license, three hundred dollars.
18.17.To
apply for a branch office of an escrow agent, consumer lender, commercial
mortgage banker, mortgage banker, trust company, money transmitter, collection
agency or deferred presentment company, five hundred dollars.
19.18.To
apply for a branch office of a mortgage broker, commercial mortgage broker,
debt management company or sales finance company, two hundred fifty dollars.
20.19.To
apply for approval of the articles of incorporation of a business development
corporation, five hundred dollars.
21.20.To
apply for approval for the merger or consolidation of two or more financial
institutions, five thousand dollars per institution.
22.21.To
apply for approval to convert from a national bank or federal savings and loan
charter to a state chartered institution, five thousand dollars.
23.22.To
apply for approval to convert from a federal credit union to a state chartered
credit union, one thousand dollars.
24.23.To
apply for approval to merge or consolidate two or more credit unions, five
hundred dollars per credit union.
25.24.To
move an established office of an enterprise to other than an established
office, fifty dollars.
26.25.To
issue a duplicate or replace a lost enterprise's license, one hundred dollars.
27.26.To
change a responsible person on a mortgage broker's, commercial mortgage
broker's, commercial mortgage banker's or a mortgage banker's license, two
hundred fifty dollars.
28.27.To
change an active manager on a collection agency license or a manager of a money
transmitter branch office license, two hundred fifty dollars.
29.28.To
change the licensee name on a financial institution or enterprise license, not
more than two hundred fifty dollars.
30.29.To
apply for a money transmitter license, one thousand five hundred dollars plus
twentyfive dollars for each branch office and authorized delegate to a
maximum of four thousand five hundred dollars.
31.30.To
acquire control of any money transmitter or controlling person pursuant to
chapter 12 of this title, two thousand five hundred dollars.
32.31.To
receive the following publications:
(a)Quarterly bank and savings and loan statement of
condition, not more than ten dollars per copy.
(b)Monthly summary of actions report, not more than
five dollars per copy.
(c)A list of licensees, a monthly pending actions
report and all other inhouse prepared reports or listings made available
to the public, not more than one dollar per page.
33.32.To
apply for a loan originator license, an amount to be determined by the superintendent.
34.33.To
apply for a loan originator license transfer, an amount to be determined by the
superintendent.
35.34.To
apply for a conversion from a mortgage banker license to a mortgage broker
license, an amount to be determined by the superintendent.
B.On issuance of a license or permit for a
financial institution or enterprise, the superintendent shall collect the first
year's annual assessment or renewal fee for the financial institution or
enterprise prorated according to the number of quarters remaining until the
date of the next annual assessment or renewal.
C.The following
annual renewal fees shall be paid each year:
1.For an escrow
agent, or trust company, one thousand dollars plus two hundred fifty dollars
for each branch office.
2.For a debt management company or sales finance
company, five hundred dollars plus two hundred dollars for each branch office.
3.For a collection agency, six hundred dollars plus
two hundred dollars for each branch office.
4.For a motor
vehicle dealer, one hundred fifty dollars.
5.4.For an inactive
mortgage broker or commercial mortgage broker, two hundred fifty dollars.
6.5.For a mortgage
banker that negotiates or closes in the aggregate one hundred loans or less in
the immediately preceding calendar year, seven hundred fifty dollars, and for a
mortgage banker that negotiates or closes in the aggregate over one hundred
loans in the immediately preceding calendar year, one thousand two hundred
fifty dollars.In addition, a mortgage banker shall pay two hundred
fifty dollars for each branch office.
7.6.For a commercial
mortgage banker, one thousand two hundred fifty dollars. In addition, a
commercial mortgage banker shall pay two hundred fifty dollars for each branch
office.
8.7.For a mortgage
broker or commercial mortgage broker that negotiates or closes in the aggregate
fifty loans or less in the immediately preceding calendar year, two hundred
fifty dollars and for a mortgage broker or commercial mortgage broker that
negotiates or closes in the aggregate more than fifty loans in the immediately
preceding calendar year, five hundred dollars. In addition, a mortgage broker
or commercial mortgage broker shall pay two hundred dollars for each branch
office.
9.8.For a consumer lender,
one thousand dollars plus two hundred dollars for each branch office.
10.9.For a money
transmitter, five hundred dollars plus twentyfive dollars for each
branch office and each authorized delegate to a maximum of two thousand five
hundred dollars.
11.10.For a deferred
presentment company, four hundred dollars. In addition, a deferred presentment
company shall pay two hundred dollars for each branch office.
12.11.For a loan
originator, an amount to be determined by the superintendent.
13.12.For an inactive status loan
originator, an amount to be determined by the superintendent.
D.The
license, renewal or branch office permit fee for a premium finance company for
each calendar year or part thereof shall not be less than one hundred dollars
or more than three hundred dollars as set by the superintendent. If the
license is issued or the branch office is opened after June 30 in any year, the
fees shall not be less than fifty dollars or more than one hundred fifty
dollars for that year. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 28-4302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE28-4302.Fees; disposition
A.The following fees are required:
1.For filing each application for a dealer's,
manufacturer's, importer's, distributor's, factory branch's, distributor
branch's, automotive recycler's or wholesale motor vehicle dealer's license,
fifteen dollars.
2.For filing each application for a provisional
dealer's, automotive recycler's or wholesale motor vehicle dealer's license
filed in conjunction with an application for a dealer's or automotive
recycler's license, ten dollars.
3.For each filing or continuation of a dealer's, manufacturer's, distributor's,
importer's, factory branch's, distributor branch's, automotive recycler's or
wholesale motor vehicle dealer's license if issued annually, one hundred
dollars.
4.For each
filing or continuation of a dealer's license if issued annually, four hundred
dollars, of which three hundred dollars shall be deposited, pursuant to
sections 35-146 and 35-147, in the state general fund and one hundred dollars
in the Arizona highway user revenue fund.
4.5.For
filing or continuing a dealer's branch license if issued annually, fifty
dollars.
5.6.For
filing each application for a permit for the offpremises exhibition of
motor vehicles, for a motor vehicle show or for a special event to exhibit new
motor homes, twentyfive dollars.
6.7.For
filing each application for a permit for the offpremises display and
sale of motor vehicles, twentyfive dollars.
B.Except as otherwise provided by statute, the
director shall immediately deposit, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147,
fees collected under this section in the Arizona highway user revenue fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 44-281, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-281.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administrator" means the
superintendent of financial institutions.
2."Cash sale price" means the price
stated in a retail installment contract for which the seller would have sold to
the buyer, and the buyer would have bought from the seller, the motor vehicle
which is the subject matter of the retail installment contract, if such sale
had been a sale for cash instead of a retail installment
transaction.The cash sale price may include charges for accessories
and their installation and for delivery, and servicing, repairing or improving
the motor vehicle, and for charges for other costs that are necessary or
incidental to the transaction and that the seller furnishes or agrees to pay on
behalf of the buyer, including taxes, assessor's fees, license fees and fees
for filing, recording or otherwise perfecting or releasing a reserved title or
lien, and may include a reasonable charge for the seller's services.
3."Dealer"
means any person who in any year sells on a noncash basis three or more motor
vehicles at retail.
4.3."Finance
charge" means the amount agreed upon between the buyer and the seller, as
limited herein, which in determining the cost of the motor vehicle is added to
the aggregate of the following:The cash sale price and the amount,
if any, included for insurance and other benefits where a separate cost is
assigned thereto.
5.4."Holder"
of a retail installment contract means the retail seller of the motor vehicle
under or subject to the contract or, if the contract is purchased by a sales
finance company or other assignee, the sales finance company or other assignee.
6.5."Motor
vehicle" means any selfpropelled device in or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn on a public highway, except:
(a)Devices that move upon or are guided by a track
or travel through the air.
(b)The following, if not designed primarily for
highway transportation, but which may incidentally be operated on a public highway:
(i)Tractors.
(ii)Buses.
(iii)Trucks.
(iv)Power shovels.
(v)Road machinery.
(vi)Agricultural machinery.
7.6."Person"
means an individual, partnership, association, trust, corporation, or other
legal entity.
8.7."Retail
buyer" or "buyer" means a person who buys a motor vehicle from a
retail seller, not for the purpose of resale, and who executes a retail
installment contract in connection therewith.
9.8."Retail
installment contract" or "contract":
(a)Means an agreement, entered into in this state,
pursuant to which the title to or a lien upon the motor vehicle, which is the
subject matter of a retail installment transaction, is retained or taken by a
retail seller from a retail buyer as security for the buyer's obligation.
(b)Includes:
(i)A conditional sales contract and a contract for
the bailment or leasing of a motor vehicle by which the bailee or lessee
contracts to pay as compensation for its use a sum substantially equivalent to
or in excess of its value and by which it is agreed that the bailee or lessee
is bound to become, or has the option of becoming, the owner of the motor
vehicle for no other or a nominal consideration upon full compliance with the
provisions of the contract.
(ii)A secondary motor vehicle finance transaction.
10.9."Retail
installment transaction" means any transaction evidenced by a retail
installment contract entered into between a retail buyer and a retail seller
wherein the retail buyer buys a motor vehicle from the retail seller at a cost
payable in one or more deferred installments. The cash sale price of the motor
vehicle, the amount included for insurance if a separate charge is made and the
finance charge shall together constitute the cost of the motor vehicle.
11.10."Retail
seller" or "seller" means a person who sells a motor vehicle to
a retail buyer for purposes other than resale under or subject to a retail
installment contract. For the purposes of paragraph 13 12 of
this section "seller" means a person who sells and retains the use of
the motor vehicle.
12.11."Sales
finance company":
(a)Means a person engaged, in whole or in part, in
the business of purchasing retail installment contracts from one or more retail
sellers.
(b)Includes a person engaged, in whole or in part,
in the business of creating or holding retail installment contracts that exceed
a total aggregate outstanding indebtedness of fifty thousand dollars.
(c)Does not include:
(i)The pledgee of an aggregate number of retail
installment contracts to secure a bona fide loan thereon.
(ii)A motor
vehicle dealer who creates retail installment contracts and
assigns the retail installment contracts to third party lenders or financial
institutions unless the dealer holds
retail installment contracts that exceed a total aggregate outstanding
indebtedness of fifty thousand dollars.
13.12."Secondary
motor vehicle finance transaction": 
(a)Means any contract that includes provisions for
either:
(i)Obtaining a security interest in or lien on a
motor vehicle other than in connection with the sale of that motor vehicle.
(ii)The sale or conditional sale of a motor vehicle
and the seller's right to retain use of the motor vehicle after the sale or
conditional sale.
(b)Includes any conditional sales contract or
contract for the bailment or leasing of a motor vehicle in which the bailee or
lessee agrees to pay for use of the motor vehicle and the bailee or lessee is
required to become or has the option of becoming the owner of the vehicle for
any or no compensation.
(c)Does not include any commercial transaction as
defined in section 44291. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
44-282, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-282.Licensing of sales finance companies required; penalty
A.No person shall engage in the business of a sales
finance company in this state without a license therefor as provided in this
article.No dealer shall
engage in business in this state without a license issued by the
administrator.No A motor vehicle dealer shall not sell or transfer any contract to a person
in Arizona not licensed under the terms of this chapter.
B.The application for a license shall be in
writing, under oath and in the form prescribed by the administrator. The
application shall contain the name of the applicant, the date of incorporation
if incorporated, the address where the business is or is to be conducted and
similar information as to any branch office of the applicant, the name and
resident address of the owners or partners or, if a corporation or association,
of the directors, trustees and principal officers, and such other pertinent
information the administrator may require.
C.The license fee for a sales finance company is
the fee prescribed in section 6126. The license fee for each dealer is the fee prescribed in
section 6126.
D.To coincide with the licensing of motor vehicle
dealers pursuant to title 28, chapter 10, the administrator may issue a sales
finance company license or a dealer
license, or both, pursuant to this article with staggered
continuation dates to distribute the continuation workload as uniformly as
practicable throughout the twelve months of the calendar year.In
order to initiate a staggered license continuation system, the administrator
may issue a license for more or less than a twelve month period, but not more
than eighteen months, and may prorate the license fee.
E.A licensee shall submit its renewal application
and applicable renewal fees to the department of financial institutions on or
before the license continuation date.For the purposes of renewal,
the license continuation date is as follows:
1.If the licensee is also a licensed motor vehicle
dealer pursuant to title 28, chapter 10, the date prescribed by the initial
licensing department, either the department of transportation or the department
of financial institutions.
2.If the licensee is not also a licensed motor
vehicle dealer pursuant to title 28, chapter 10, the date prescribed by the
department of financial institutions.
F.A penalty of twentyfive dollars per day
shall be assessed against any licensee for each day after the license
continuation date that the licensee's renewal application and fee are not
received by the department of financial institutions.Licenses not
renewed within thirty days after their license continuation date expire.
G.A license shall be obtained for each separate
place of business at or from which a licensee transacts business. Each license
shall specify the location of the office or branch and must be conspicuously
displayed there. In case such location is changed, the administrator shall
endorse the change of location on the license on the payment of the fee prescribed
in section 6126, subsection A,
paragraph 25.
H.On the filing of the application and the payment
of the required fee the administrator shall issue a license to the applicant to
engage in the business of a sales finance company or dealer under and in accordance with this
article. All licenses issued under this article shall remain in full force and
effect until surrendered, revoked, suspended or canceled by failure to renew
under this article.No licensee shall transact any business provided
for by this article under any other name.
I.A license is not transferable or assignable and
control of a licensee may not be acquired through a stock purchase or any other
device without the prior written consent of the
administrator.Written consent shall not be given if the
administrator finds that any of the grounds for denial, revocation or
suspension of a license as set forth in section 44283 are applicable to
the acquiring person. For the purposes of this subsection, "control"
means the power to vote more than twenty per
cent percent of
the outstanding voting shares of a licensed corporation, partnership,
association or trust.
J.A person doing business under the laws of this
state or the United States as a bank, savings bank, savings and loan association
or credit union is exempt from the licensing requirements of this section but
shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter, except that
affiliates of banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations or credit
unions shall comply with this section. For the purposes of this subsection,
"affiliate" means an entity that directly or indirectly, through one
or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control
with the entity specified. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 44-294, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-294.Records
Every dealer,
holder, or sales
finance company shall maintain in its office, for a period of not less than one
year after date of final payment or entry therein, a copy of all retail
installment contracts or retail installment transactions entered into under the
terms of this chapter. END_STATUTE

