







REFERENCE TITLE: county development fees







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1306









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

amending section
111102, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to county development fees.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-1102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1102.County development fees; imposition by counties;
infrastructure improvements plan; advisory committee; annual report; limitation
on actions; definitions
A.If a county
has adopted a capital improvements plan, the A county may assess development fees within
the covered county's planning area in order to offset the capital costs for water,
sewer, streets, parks and public safety facilities determined by the plan to be necessary for public services provided by the county to a
new development in the planning area.
B.Development fees assessed under this section are
subject to the following requirements:
1.Development fees shall result in a beneficial use
to the development.
2.The county shall calculate the development fee
based on the infrastructure improvements plan adopted pursuant to this section.
3.The development fees may not exceed a
proportionate share of the cost of necessary public services, based on service
units, needed to provide necessary public services to the development.
4.Costs for necessary public services made
necessary by new development shall be based on the same level of service
provided to existing development in the service area at the time the
infrastructure improvements plan is adopted.
5.Development fees may not be used for any of
the following:
(a)Funding
a level of service that is higher than the current level of service provided to
existing development at the time the infrastructure improvements plan is
adopted. 
(b)Construction,
acquisition or expansion of public facilities or assets other than necessary
public services or facility expansions identified in the infrastructure
improvements plan. 
(c)Repair,
operation or maintenance of existing or new necessary public services or
facility expansions.
(d)Upgrading,
updating, expanding, correcting or replacing existing necessary public services
to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
environmental or regulatory standards. 
(e)Upgrading,
updating, expanding, correcting or replacing existing necessary public services
to provide a higher level of service to existing development. 
(f)Administrative,
maintenance or operating costs of the county.
6.Any development for which development fees
have been paid is entitled to the use and benefit of the services for which the
development fees were imposed and is entitled to receive immediate service from
any existing facility with available capacity to serve the new service units if
the available capacity has not been reserved or pledged in connection with the
construction or financing of the facility.
7.Development
fees may be collected if any of the following occurs:
(a)The collection is made to pay
for a necessary public service or facility expansion that is identified in the
infrastructure improvements plan and the county plans to complete construction
and have the service available within the time period established in the
infrastructure improvements plan, but not longer than the time period provided
in subsection I, paragraph 3 of this section. 
(b)The
county reserves capacity in the infrastructure improvements plan adopted
pursuant to this section or otherwise agrees to reserve capacity to serve
future development.
(c)The
county requires or agrees to allow the owner of a development to construct or
finance the necessary public service or facility expansion and any of the
following applies:
(i)The
costs incurred or monies advanced are credited against or reimbursed from the
development fees otherwise due from a development. The county shall allow the
owner to assign the credits from the development fees otherwise due from a
development to other developments for the same category of necessary public
services in the same service area. 
(ii)The
county reimburses the owner for those costs from the development fees paid from
all developments that will use those necessary public services or facility
expansions. The county shall allow the owner to assign the reimbursement
rights to other developments for the same category of necessary public services
in the same service area. 
8.Projected interest charges and other finance
costs may be included in determining the amount of development fees only if the
monies are used for the payment of principal and interest on the portion of the
bonds, notes or other obligations issued to finance construction of necessary
public services or facility expansions identified in the infrastructure
improvements plan.
2.9.Monies
received from development fees shall be placed in a separate fund and accounted
for separately and may only be used for the purposes authorized by this
section. Monies received from
development fees identified in an infrastructure improvements plan adopted or
updated pursuant to subsection E of this section shall be used to provide the
same category of necessary public services or facilities expansions for which
the development fee was assessed and for the benefit of the same service area
as defined in the infrastructure improvements plan in which the development
fees were assessed. Interest earned on monies in the separate
fund shall be credited to the fund.
3.10.The
county shall prescribe the schedule for paying the development
fees.Based on the costs
identified in the infrastructure improvements plan, the county
shall provide a credit toward the payment of the fee development
fees for the required or
agreed to dedication of public sites, and
improvements and other necessary public
services or facility expansions included in the infrastructure improvements
plan and for which development fees are assessed, to the extent the public
sites, improvements and necessary public services or facility expansions are provided
by the developer for which that fee is
assessed. On request of
the developer, instead of providing a credit toward the payment of development
fees, the county shall provide for reimbursement of the actual costs of the
required or agreed to dedication of public sites, improvements or other
necessary public services or facility expansions included in the infrastructure
improvements plan and for which development fees are assessed, to the extent
the public sites, improvements and necessary public services or facility
expansions are provided by the developer. The developer of
residential dwelling units shall be required to pay the fees when construction
permits for the dwelling units are issued, or at a later time if specified in the development agreement pursuant
to section 111101.If a development agreement provides for development fees to
be paid at a time later than the issuance of construction permits, the deferred
development fees shall be paid not later than fifteen days after the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy. The development agreement shall provide for the
value of any deferred development fees to be supported by an appropriate
security, including a surety bond, letter of credit or cash bond.
4.The amount
of any development fees must bear a reasonable relationship to the burden of
capital costs imposed on the county to provide additional necessary public
services to the development. In determining the extent of the burden imposed
by the development, the county shall consider, among other things, the
contribution made or to be made in the future in cash by taxes, fees or
assessments by the property owner toward the capital costs of the necessary
public service covered by the development fee.
11.If a
county requires as a condition of development approval the construction or
improvement of, contributions to or dedication of any facilities that were not
included in a previously adopted infrastructure improvements plan, the county
shall cause the infrastructure improvements plan to be amended to include the
facilities and shall provide a credit toward the payment of development fees
for the construction, improvement, contribution or dedication of the facilities
to the extent that the facilities will substitute for or otherwise reduce the
need for other similar facilities in the infrastructure improvements plan for
which development fees were assessed.If a county requires as a
condition of development approval the set aside of active or passive open
space, the county shall issue a credit toward any development fees identified
in the infrastructure improvements plan to fund any park facilities or facility
expansion. On request of the individual or entity seeking development
approval, instead of issuing a credit toward the payment of development fees,
the county shall provide for reimbursement of the actual costs of the
construction or improvement of, contributions to or dedication of the public
facilities required as a condition of development approval.
12.The county shall forecast the contribution to
be made in the future in cash, taxes, fees, assessments and all other sources
of revenue derived from the property owner towards the capital costs of the
necessary public service covered by the development fees.
5.13.If development fees shall be are assessed in a nondiscriminatory manner against residential development, the county shall also assess
development fees against commercial and industrial development. The county may
distinguish between different categories of residential, commercial and
industrial development in assessing the costs to the county of providing
necessary public services to new development and in determining the amount of
the development fees applicable to the category, except that the county may not
distinguish residential developments on the basis of square footage. If a
county agrees to waive any of the development fees assessed on a development,
the county shall reimburse the appropriate development fees accounts for the
amount that was waived.The county shall provide notice of any such
waiver to the advisory committee established pursuant to subsection H of this
section. 
6.14.In
determining and assessing a
development fee fees applying to land in a
community facilities district established under title 48, chapter 4, article 6,
the county shall take into account all public infrastructure provided by the
district and capital costs paid by the district for necessary public services
and shall not assess a portion of the development fee fees
based on the infrastructure or costs.
7.15.The
county shall not assess or collect development fees from a school district or charter
school, other than fees assessed or collected for streets and water and sewer
utility functions.
C.Before assessing or increasing a development fee
fees, the county shall:
1.Give at least one hundred twenty thirty days' advance notice of intention to
assess a new or
increased development fee fees.
2.Release to the public and post on the county's website a written
report including all documentation that
supports the assessment of a new or increased development fee of the land use assumptions and
infrastructure improvements plan adopted pursuant to subsection E of this
section.
3.Conduct a public hearing on the proposed new or increased development fee fees at any time after the expiration of the one hundred twenty day thirty-day notice of intention
to assess a new or increased
development fee fees and at least fourteen thirty days before the scheduled date of
adoption of the new or increased fee
development fees. Within sixty days after the date of the
public hearing on the proposed development fees, the county shall approve or
disapprove the imposition of the development fees. A county may not adopt an
ordinance, order or resolution approving development fees as an emergency
measure.
D.A
Development fee fees assessed pursuant to this
section is are not effective for at least ninety days
after its formal adoption
by the board of supervisors.
E.Before the adoption or amendment of
development fees, the board of supervisors shall adopt or update the land use
assumptions and infrastructure improvements plan for the designated service
area. The county shall conduct a public hearing on the land use assumptions
and infrastructure improvements plan at least thirty days before the adoption
or update of the infrastructure improvements plan. The county shall release
the infrastructure improvements plan to the public, post the infrastructure
improvements plan on the county's website, including in the posting the land
use assumptions, the time period of the projections, a description of the
necessary public services included in the infrastructure improvements plan and
a map of the service area to which the land use assumptions apply, make
available to the public the documents used to prepare the land use assumptions
and infrastructure improvements plan and provide public notice at least sixty
days before the public hearing, subject to the following:
1.The land use assumptions and infrastructure
improvements plan shall be approved or disapproved within sixty days after the
public hearing on the land use assumptions and infrastructure improvements plan
and at least thirty days before the public hearing on the report required by
subsection C of this section. A county may not adopt an ordinance, order or
resolution approving the land use assumptions or infrastructure improvements
plan as an emergency measure.
2.An infrastructure improvements plan shall be
developed by qualified professionals using generally accepted engineering and
planning practices pursuant to subsection F of this section.
3.A county shall update the land use assumptions
and infrastructure improvements plan at least every five years. The initial
five-year period begins on the day the infrastructure improvements plan is
adopted. The county shall review and evaluate the current land use assumptions
and shall cause an update of the infrastructure improvements plan to be
prepared pursuant to this section.
4.Within sixty days after completion of the
updated land use assumptions and infrastructure improvements plan, the county
shall schedule and provide notice of a public hearing to discuss and review the
update and shall determine whether to amend the land use assumptions and
infrastructure improvements plan.
5.A county shall hold a public hearing to
discuss the proposed amendments to the land use assumptions, the infrastructure
improvements plan or the development fees. The land use assumptions and the
infrastructure improvements plan, including the amount of any proposed changes
to the development fees per service unit, shall be made available to the public
on or before the date of the first publication of the notice of the hearing on
the amendments.
6.The hearing procedures prescribed in paragraph
1 of this subsection apply to a hearing on the amendment of land use
assumptions, an infrastructure improvements plan or development fees. Within
sixty days after the date of the public hearing on the amendments, a county
shall approve or disapprove the amendments to the land use assumptions,
infrastructure improvements plan or development fees. a county may not adopt
an ordinance, order or resolution approving the amended land use assumptions,
infrastructure improvements plan or development fees as an emergency measure.
7.The advisory committee established under
subsection H of this section shall file its written comments on any proposed or
updated land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan and development
fees before the fifth business day before the date of the public hearing on the
proposed or updated land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan and
development fees.
8.If, at the time an update as prescribed in
paragraph 3 of this subsection is required, the county determines that no
changes to the land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan or development
fees are needed, the county, as an alternative to the updating requirements of
this subsection, may publish notice of the determination on the county's
website that includes the following:
(a)A
statement that the county has determined that no change to the land use
assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan or development fees is necessary.

(b)A
description and map of the service area in which an update has been determined
to be unnecessary. 
(c)A
statement that by a specified date, which shall be at least sixty days after
the date of publication of the first notice, a person may request to the county
in writing that the county update the land use assumptions, infrastructure
improvements plan or development fees. 
(d)A
statement identifying the person or entity to whom the written request for an
update should be sent.
9.If, by the date specified pursuant to
paragraph 8 of this subsection, a person requests in writing that the county
update the land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan or
development fees, the county shall cause, accept or reject an update of the
land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan or development fees to
be prepared pursuant to this section.
10.Notwithstanding the notice and hearing requirements
for adoption of an infrastructure improvements plan, the county may amend an
infrastructure improvements plan without a public hearing if the amendment
addresses only elements of necessary public services in the existing
infrastructure improvements plan and the changes to the plan will not,
individually or cumulatively with other amendments adopted pursuant to this
subsection, increase the level of service in the service area or cause an
increase in development fees that is greater than five percent when new or
modified development fees are assessed pursuant to this section. The county
shall provide notice of the amendment at least thirty days before adoption,
shall post the amendment on the county's website and shall provide notice to
the advisory committee established pursuant to subsection H of this section
that the amendment complies with this subsection.
F.For each necessary public service that is the
subject of development fees, the infrastructure improvements plan shall
include:
1.A description of the existing necessary public
services in the service area and the costs to upgrade, update, improve, expand,
correct or replace those necessary public services to meet existing needs and
usage and stricter safety, efficiency, environmental or regulatory
standards.The description shall be prepared by qualified
professionals who are licensed in this state, as applicable.
2.An analysis of the total capacity, the level
of current usage and commitments for usage of capacity of the existing necessary
public services. The analysis shall be prepared by qualified professionals who
are licensed in this state, as applicable.
3.A description of all or the parts of the
necessary public services or facility expansions and their costs necessitated
by and attributable to new development in the service area based on the
approved land use assumptions, including a forecast of the cost of
infrastructure, improvements, real property, financing, engineering and
architectural services. the description shall be prepared by qualified
professionals who are licensed in this state, as applicable.
4.A description of all the costs necessitated by
ongoing maintenance and operations of the necessary public services once
construction is completed and a description of the source of revenue to be used
to fund the maintenance and operations.
5.The total number of projected service units
necessitated by and attributable to new development in the service area based
on the approved land use assumptions and calculated pursuant to generally
accepted engineering and planning criteria.
6.The projected demand for necessary public
services or facility expansions required by new service units for a period of
not more than ten years.
7.A forecast of revenues generated by new service
units other than development fees, including estimated state shared revenue,
highway user revenue, federal revenue, ad valorem property taxes, construction
contracting or similar excise taxes and the capital recovery portion of utility
fees attributable to development based on the approved land use assumptions,
and a plan to include these contributions in determining the extent of the
burden imposed by the development as required in subsection B, paragraph 12 of
this section.
G.A county's development fees ordinance shall
provide that new development fees or an increased portion of modified
development fees may not be assessed against a development after the date that
the county issues the final approval for a commercial, industrial or
multifamily development or the date that the first building permit is issued
for a residential development pursuant to an approved site plan or subdivision
plat, only if subsequent changes are not made to the approved site plan or
subdivision plat that would increase the number of service units.If
the number of service units increases, the new or increased portion of modified
development fees shall be limited to the amount attributable to the additional
service units. The period is not extended by a renewal or amendment of the
site plan or the final subdivision plat that was the subject of the final
approval. The county shall issue, on request, a written statement of the
development fees schedule applicable to the development. If, after the date of
the county's final approval of a development, the county reduces the
development fees assessed on development, the reduced fees shall apply to the
development.
H.A county shall do one of the following:
1.Before the adoption of the proposed or updated
land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan and development fees as
prescribed in subsection E of this section, appoint an infrastructure
improvements advisory committee, subject to the following requirements:
(a)The
advisory committee shall be composed of at least five members who are appointed
by the board of supervisors. At least fifty percent of the members of the
advisory committee must be representatives of the real estate, development or
building industries, of which at least one member of the committee must be from
the home building industry. Members may not be employees or officials of the
county. 
(b)The
advisory committee shall serve in an advisory capacity and shall:
(i)Advise
the county in adopting land use assumptions and in determining whether the assumptions
are in conformance with the general plan of the county.
(ii)Review
the infrastructure improvements plan and file written comments. 
(iii)Monitor
and evaluate implementation of the infrastructure improvements plan. 
(iv)Every
year file reports with respect to the progress of the infrastructure
improvements plan and the collection and expenditures of development fees and
report to the county any perceived inequities in implementing the
infrastructure improvements plan or assessing the development fees. 
(v)Advise
the county of the need to update or revise the land use assumptions,
infrastructure improvements plan and development fees.
(c)The
county shall make available to the advisory committee any professional reports
with respect to developing and implementing the infrastructure improvements
plan.
(d)The
municipality shall adopt procedural rules for the advisory committee to follow
in carrying out the advisory committee's duties.
2.Provide for a biennial certified audit of the
county's land use assumptions, infrastructure improvements plan and development
fees. An audit pursuant to this paragraph shall be conducted by one or more
qualified professionals who are not employees or officials of the county and
who did not prepare the infrastructure improvements plan. The audit shall
review the progress of the infrastructure improvements plan, including the
collection and expenditures of development fees for each project in the
infrastructure improvements plan, and evaluate any inequities in implementing
the infrastructure improvements plan or imposing the development
fees.The county shall post the findings of the audit on the
county's website and shall conduct a public hearing on the audit within sixty
days after the release of the audit to the public.
I.On written request, an owner of real property
for which development fees have been paid after December 31, 2017 is entitled
to a refund of the development fees or any part of the development fees if:
1.Pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 6 of this
section, existing facilities are available and service is not provided.
2.The county, after collecting the fees to
construct a facility when service is not available, has failed to complete
construction within the time period identified in the infrastructure
improvements plan, but in no event later than the time period specified in
paragraph 3 of this subsection.
3.For development fees other than development
fees for water or wastewater facilities, any part of the development fees is not
spent as authorized by this section within ten years after the fees have been
paid or, for development fees for water or wastewater facilities, any part of
the development fees is not spent as authorized by this section within fifteen
years after the development fees have been paid.
J.If the development fees were collected for the
construction of all or a portion of a specific item of infrastructure, and on
completion of the infrastructure the county determines that the actual cost of
construction was less than the forecasted cost of construction on which the
development fees were based and the difference between the actual and estimated
cost is greater than ten percent, the current owner may receive a refund of the
portion of the development fees equal to the difference between the development
fees paid and the development fees that would have been due if the development
fees had been calculated at the actual construction cost.
K.A refund shall include any interest earned by
the county from the date of collection to the date of refund on the amount of
the refunded fees. All refunds shall be paid to the owner of record of the
property at the time the refund is paid. If the development fees are paid by a
governmental entity, the refund shall be paid to the governmental entity.
L.Development fees that were adopted before
January 1, 2017 may continue to be assessed only to the extent that the
development fees will be used to provide a necessary public service for which
development fees can be assessed pursuant to this section and shall be replaced
by development fees imposed under this section on or before January 1, 2018.
Any county having development fees that have not been replaced under this
section on or before January 1, 2018 may not collect development fees until the
development fees have been replaced with fees that comply with this section.
Any development fees monies collected before January 1, 2017 remaining in a
development fees account:
1.Shall be used towards the same category of
necessary public services as authorized by this section.
2.And collected for a purpose not authorized by
this section shall be used for the purpose for which the development fees were
collected on or before January 1, 2024, and after which, if not spent, shall be
distributed equally among the categories of necessary public services
authorized by this section.
M.A moratorium may not be placed on development
for the sole purpose of awaiting completion of all or any part of the process
necessary to develop, adopt or update development fees.
N.In any judicial action interpreting this
section:
1.All powers conferred on a county by this
section shall be narrowly construed to ensure that development fees are not
used to impose on new residents a burden all taxpayers of a county should bear
equally.
2.The time limitation in section 12-821 shall
restart each time the county collects the development fees.
E.O.Each
county that assesses development fees shall submit an annual report accounting
for the collection and use of the fees
for each service area. The annual report shall include the
following:
1.The amount assessed by the county for each type
of development fee.
2.The balance of each fund maintained for each type
of development fee assessed as of the beginning and end of the fiscal year.
3.The amount of interest or other earnings on the
monies in each fund as of the end of the fiscal year.
4.The amount of development fee monies used to
repay:
(a)Bonds issued by the county to pay the cost of a
capital improvement project that is the subject of a development fee fees
assessment, including the
amount needed to repay the debt service obligations on each facility for which
development fees have been identified as the source of funding and the time
frames in which the debt service will be repaid.
(b)Monies advanced by the county from funds other
than the funds established for development fees in order to pay the cost of a
capital improvement project that is the subject of a development fee fees
assessment, the total
amount advanced by the county for each facility, the source of the monies
advanced and the terms under which the monies will be repaid to the county.
5.The amount of development fee fees
monies spent on each capital improvement project that is the
subject of a development fee
fees assessment and the
physical location of each capital improvement project.
6.The amount of development fee fees
monies spent for each purpose other than a capital improvement
project that is the subject of a development fee fees
assessment.
F.P.Within
ninety days following the end of each fiscal year, each county shall submit a
copy of the annual report to the clerk of the board of supervisors and post the annual report on the county's
website. Copies shall be made available to the public on
request. The annual report may contain financial information that has not been
audited.
G.Q.A
county that fails to file the report and
post the annual report on the county's website as required by
this section shall not collect development fees until the report is filed and posted.
H.This section does not affect any development
fee adopted before May18, 2000. 
R.Any action to collect development fees shall
be commenced within two years after the obligation to pay the development fees
accrues.
S.A county may continue to assess development
fees adopted before January 1, 2017 for any facility that was financed before
June 1, 2016 if:
1.Development fees were pledged to repay debt
service obligations related to the construction of the facility.
2.After January 1, 2018, any development fees
collected under this subsection are used solely for the payment of principal
and interest on the portion of the bonds, notes or other debt service
obligations issued before June 1, 2016 to finance construction of the facility.
T.Through January 1, 2018, development fees
adopted before January 1, 2017 may be used to finance construction of a
facility and may be pledged to repay debt service obligations if:
1.The facility that is being financed is a
facility that is described under subsection U, paragraph 7, subdivision (a), (b), (c),
(d) or (e) of this section.
2.The facility was included in an infrastructure
improvements plan adopted before June 1, 2016.
3.The development fees are used for the payment
of principal and interest on the portion of the bonds, notes or other debt
service obligations issued to finance construction of the necessary public
services or facility expansions identified in the infrastructure improvements
plan.
U.For the purposes of this section:
1."Dedication" means the actual
conveyance date or the date an improvement, facility or real or personal
property is placed into service, whichever occurs first.
2."Development" means:
(a)The
subdivision of land.
(b)The
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure that adds or increases the number of service
units. 
(c)Any
use or extension of the use of land that increases the number of service units.
3."Facility expansion" means the
expansion of the capacity of an existing facility that serves the same function
as an otherwise new necessary public service in order that the existing
facility may serve new development. Facility expansion does not include the
repair, maintenance, modernization or expansion of an existing facility to
better serve existing development.
4."Final approval" means, for
nonresidnetial or multifamily development, the approval of a site plan or, if
no site plan is submitted for the development, the approval of a final
subdivision plat.
5."Infrastructure improvements plan"
means a written plan that identifies each necessary public service or facility
expansion that is proposed to be the subject of development fees and otherwise
complies with the requirements of this section and may be the county's capital
improvements plan.
6."Land use assumptions" means
projections of changes in land uses, densities, intensities and population for
a specified service area over a period of at least ten years and pursuant to
the general plan of the county.
7."Necessary public service" means any
of the following facilities that have a life expectancy of three or more years
and that are owned and operated by or on behalf of the county:
(a)Water
facilities, including the supply, transportation, treatment, purification and
distribution of water, and any appurtenances for those facilities.
(b)Wastewater
facilities, including collection, interception, transportation, treatment and
disposal of wastewater, and any appurtenances for those facilities.
(c)Street
facilities located in the service area, including arterial or collector streets
or roads that have been designated on an officially adopted plan of the county,
traffic signals and rights-of-way and improvements
thereon.Improvements to rights-of-way do not include streetcars,
railways or other forms of transportation and their corresponding tracks.
(d)Public
safety or fire facilities, including all appurtenances, equipment and vehicles.
Public safety or fire facilities do not include a facility or portion of a
facility that is used to replace services that were once provided elsewhere in
the county, vehicles and equipment used to provide administrative services,
helicopters or airplanes, paramilitary vehicles, court and judicial facilities,
facilities that are used for training firefighters or officers from more than
one station or substation or jail, correctional or detention facilities.
(e)Neighborhood
parks and recreational facilities on real property up to thirty acres in area,
or parks and recreational facilities larger than thirty acres if the facilities
provide a direct benefit to the development. Parks and recreational facilities
do not include vehicles, equipment of that portion of any facility that is used
for amusement parks, aquariums, aquatic centers, auditoriums, arenas, arts and
cultural facilities, bandstand and orchestra facilities, bathhouses,
boathouses, clubhouses, community centers greater than three thousand square
feet in floor area, environmental education centers, equestrian facilities,
trails, golf course facilities, greenhouses, lakes, museums, theme parks, water
reclamation or riparian areas, wetlands, zoo facilities or similar recreational
facilities, but may include swimming pools.
(f)Any
facility that was financed and that meets all of the requirements prescribed in
subsection S of this section. 
8."Qualified professional" means a
professional engineer, surveyor, financial analyst or planner providing
services within the scope of the person's license, education or experience.
9."Service area" means any specified
area within the boundaries of a county in which development will be served by
necessary public services or facility expansions and within which a substantial
nexus exists between the necessary public services or facility expansions and
the development being served as prescribed in the infrastructure improvements
plan.
10."Service unit" means a standardized
measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable to an
individual unit of development calculated using data specific to the service
area in which the facility will be located and pursuant to generally accepted
engineering or planning standards for a particular category of necessary public
services or facility expansions. END_STATUTE

