







REFERENCE TITLE: public employees; collective bargaining







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1333









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada; Representatives Cardenas, Velasquez: Fernandez, Rios





AN ACT

amending title
23, chapter 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding article 7; amending section
41-1092.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 41, chapter 27, article 2,
Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 413026.01; relating to
PUBLIC EMPLOYEEs.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section|1.Title 23,
chapter 8, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding article 7, to read:
ARTICLE7.PUBLIC
EMPLOYEE BARGAINING ACT
START_STATUTE231421.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Appropriate bargaining unit" means a group
of public employees designated by the board or a local board for the purpose of
collective bargaining.
2."Appropriate governing body" means the
policymaking body or individual representing a public employer.
3."Board" means the public employee labor
relations board.
4."Certification" means the designation by the
board of a labor organization or a local board of a labor organization as the
exclusive representative for all public employees in an appropriate bargaining
unit.
5."Collective bargaining" means the act of
negotiating between a public employer and an exclusive representative for the
purpose of entering into a written agreement regarding wages, hours and other
terms and conditions of employment.
6."Confidential employee" means an individual
who assists and acts in a confidential capacity to an individual who
formulates, determines and effectuates management policies for meeting and
conferring.
7."Exclusive representative" means the labor
organization that is certified to be the sole meet-and-confer agent of all
public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit for the purposes of
collective bargaining.
8."Impasse" means the failure of a public
employer and an exclusive representative, after good faith bargaining, to reach
agreement in the course of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement.
9."Labor organization" means an employee
organization whose purpose is the representation of public employees in
collective bargaining and in meeting, consulting and conferring with employers
on matters pertaining to employment relations.
10."Local board" means a local
labor relations board that is established by a public employer that is a
political subdivision of this state through ordinance, resolution or charter
amendment.
11."Lockout" means an act by a
public employer to prevent its employees from going to work for the purpose of
resisting the demands of the employees' exclusive representative or for the
purpose of gaining a concession from the exclusive representative.
12."Management employee" means
an employee who is engaged primarily in executive and management functions and
who is charged with the responsibility of developing, administering or
effectuating management policies. Management employee does not include an
employee who participates in cooperative decision-making programs on an
occasional basis.
13."Mediation" means assistance
by an impartial third party to resolve, through interpretation, suggestion and
advice, an impasse between a public employer and an exclusive representative
regarding employment relations.
14."Professional" means an
employee whose work is predominantly intellectual and varied in character,
involves the consistent exercise of discretion and judgment in its performance
and requires knowledge of an advanced nature in a field of learning that
customarily requires specialized study at an institution of higher education or
its equivalent.
15."Public employee" means an
employee of this state or any political subdivision of this state but does not
include elected officials or individuals who are appointed to serve on boards
or commissions.
16."Public employer" means this
state and any political subdivision of this state.
17."Strike" means a public
employee's refusal in concerted action with others to report for duty, an
employee's wilful absence from the employee's position or the stopping of work
or the absence from the full, faithful or proper performance of duties for the
purpose of inducing, influencing or coercing a change in the conditions,
compensation, rights, privileges or obligations of public employment.
18."Supervisor" means an
individual who is employed by an employer and who:
(a)Has
the authority in the interest of the employer to hire, transfer, furlough, lay
off, recall, suspend, discipline or remove other employees, if the exercise of
the authority is not merely routine or clerical in nature but requires the
consistent exercise of independent judgment.
(b)Devotes
a majority of time at work exercising this authority. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1422.Public employee rights
A.Public employees may form, join and participate in, or
refrain from forming, joining or participating in, any labor organization.
B.Public employees may be represented by the exclusive
representative and may meet and confer through the exclusive representative
with their public employer in the determination of the terms and conditions of
their employment, including the right to be represented in the determination of
grievances on all terms and conditions of employment.
C.Public employees may engage in concerted activities
that are not prohibited by law for the purpose of meeting and conferring on
other mutual aid or protection or may refrain from engaging in these
activities.
D.Public employees may exercise the rights provided for
in this section free from interference, intimidation, restraint, coercion or
discrimination. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1423.Public employer rights
In addition to all of the powers, rights and duties that are
established by law, a public employer has the right to:
1.Determine the mission of its agencies, set standards
of service to be offered to the public and exercise control over its
organization and operations.
2.Direct, promote or assign its employees, take
disciplinary action for just cause and relieve its employees from duty for lack
of work. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1424.Appropriate governing body
A.The appropriate governing body is as follows:
1.For this state, the governor or the governor's
designee.
2.For a constitutionally created body, the designated
head of that body.
3.For a local public body, the elected or appointed
representative body or individual charged with management of the local public
body.
B.If there is a dispute regarding who the appropriate
governing body is, the board shall determine the appropriate governing body. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1425.Public employee labor relations board; membership;
appointments; director; compensation
A.The public employee labor relations board is
established.
B.The board consists of the following members who are
appointed by the governor:
1.One member who is involved in representing public
employees.
2.One member who is a public employer and who is
actively involved in collective bargaining.
3.One member who is jointly recommended by the members
who are appointed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection.
C.Board members serve a term of one
year.Vacancies that occur, other than by the expiration of a term,
must be filled in the same manner for the balance of the unexpired term.
During the appointed term, a board member may not be a candidate for public
office, hold a public office, be a public employee or be an employee of a union
or an organization that represents public employees or public employers. Board
members may serve an unlimited number of terms.
D.The board shall appoint a director who is eligible to
receive compensation pursuant to section 38-611.
E.Board members are eligible to receive compensation
pursuant to section 38-611 and are eligible to receive reimbursement of
expenses pursuant to title 38, chapter 4, article 2. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1426.Public employee labor relations board; powers and duties;
prohibition
A.The board shall:
1.Adopt rules that are necessary for the administration
of this article, including rules for:
(a)Designating
appropriate bargaining units.
(b)Selecting,
certifying and decertifying exclusive representatives.
(c)Filing,
hearing and making determinations of complaints of prohibited practices.
2.Administer and enforce this article and rules that are
adopted pursuant to this article and use appropriate administrative remedies to
enforce this article.
3.Hold hearings and make inquiries that are necessary to
carry out the board's functions and duties.
4.Conduct studies on problems that relate to employee
and employer relations.
5.Request from public employers and labor organizations
the information and data that are necessary to carry out the board's functions
and responsibilities.
6.Decide all issues by majority vote and issue decisions
in the form of written orders and opinions.
B.The board may:
1.Issue subpoenas that require, on reasonable notice,
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence,
including books, records, correspondence or documents that relate to any matter
in question.
2.Prescribe the form of subpoena that is in a form used
in civil actions in superior court.
3.Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses
and receive evidence.
4.Hire personnel or contract with third parties to
assist the board in its functions.
C.The board may not require any public employee to pay
money to any labor organization as a condition of employment. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1427.Local boards; members; powers and duties
A.Except for this state and If the public employee labor
relations board approves, a public employer by ordinance, resolution or charter
amendment may establish a local board that is similar to the public employee
labor relations board. If established and approved, the local board shall
assume the duties and responsibilities of the public employee labor relations
board. A local board shall follow all provisions of this article that apply to
the public employee labor relations board unless otherwise approved by the
public employee labor relations board.
B.A local board shall consist of the following members
who are appointed by the public employer:
1.One member who represents public employees.
2.One member who represents management.
3.One member who is jointly recommended by the members
who are appointed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection.
C.Local board members serve a term of one year.
Vacancies that occur, other than by the expiration of a term, must be filled in
the same manner for the balance of the unexpired term. During the appointed
term, a local board member may not be a candidate for public office, hold a
public office, be a public employee or be an employee of a union or an
organization that represents public employees or public
employers.Board members may serve an unlimited number of terms.
D.Local board members are eligible to receive
compensation and reimbursement of expenses.
E.The local board shall:
1.Adopt rules that are necessary for the administration
of this article, including rules for:
(a)Designating
appropriate bargaining units.
(b)Selecting,
certifying and decertifying exclusive representatives.
(c)Filing,
hearing and making determinations of complaints of prohibited practices.
2.Administer and enforce this article and rules that are
adopted pursuant to this article and use appropriate administrative remedies to
enforce this article.
3.Hold hearings and make inquiries that are necessary to
carry out the local board's functions and duties.
4.Conduct studies on problems that relate to employee and
employer relations.
5.Request from public employers and labor organizations
the information and data that are necessary to carry out the local board's
functions and responsibilities.
6.Decide all issues by majority vote and issue decisions
in the form of written orders and opinions.
F.The local board may:
1.Issue subpoenas that require, on reasonable notice,
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence,
including books, records, correspondence or documents that relate to any matter
in question.
2.Prescribe the form of subpoena that is in a form used
in civil actions in superior court.
3.Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses
and receive evidence.
4.Hire personnel or contract with third parties to
assist the board in its functions. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1428.Hearing procedures
A.The board or a local board may hold hearings to gather
information, make inquiries, adopt rules, adjudicate disputes and enforce this
article.
B.The board or a local board shall adopt rules to govern
procedures for the hearings.The rules that are adopted under this
subsection must include all minimal due process requirements that the United
States Constitution and the constitution of this state require.
C.The board or a local board may appoint a hearing
officer to conduct any adjudication hearing that is authorized by the board or
local board.At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
shall prepare a written report, including findings and recommendations, and
shall submit the report to the board or local board for its decision.
D.The board or a local board may not propose to adopt a
rule that affects any person or governmental entity outside of the board's or
local board's jurisdiction.The board or local board shall conduct a
public hearing to adopt, amend or repeal any rule and allow a public hearing
and comment on the proposed action before the board or local board. The public
hearing must be held after notice of the subject matter of the rule, the action
proposed to be taken, the time and place of the hearing, the manner in which
interested persons may present their views and the method by which copies of
the proposed rule, proposed amendment or repeal of an existing rule may be
obtained. All meetings of the board must be held in Phoenix. All meetings of
local boards must be held in the county of residence of the local public
employer. The board or local board shall publish a notice at least thirty days
before the hearing date in a newspaper of general circulation in this state or,
in the case of a local board hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county. The board or local board shall mail a notice at least thirty days
before the hearing date to all persons that have made a written request for
advance notice of hearings.
E.The board or local board shall make an electronic
record of all hearings. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1429.Appropriate bargaining units; definition
A.On receipt of a petition for a representation election
that a labor organization files, the board or a local board shall designate the
appropriate bargaining units for collective bargaining.Appropriate
bargaining units must be established on the basis of occupational groups.
Essential factors in determining appropriate bargaining units must include the
principles of efficient administration of government, the history of collective
bargaining and the assurance to public employees of the fullest freedom in
exercising the rights that are guaranteed by this article.
B.Within thirty days after a disagreement between a
public employer and a labor organization concerning the composition of an
appropriate bargaining unit, the board or a local board shall hold a hearing
concerning the composition of the bargaining unit before designating an
appropriate bargaining unit.
C.The board or a local board may not include in any
appropriate bargaining unit supervisors, management employees or confidential
employees.
D.For the purposes of this section, "occupational
groups" means a clear and identifiable community of interest in employment
terms and conditions and related personnel matters among the public employees
involved. Occupational groups include employees of blue-collar, secretarial,
clerical, technical, professional, paraprofessional, police, fire and
corrections positions. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1430.Elections
A.If, in accordance
with rules that are adopted by the board or a local board, a labor organization
files a petition with the board or local board and the petition contains the
signatures of at least thirty percent of the public employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit, the board or local board shall conduct a secret ballot
representation election to determine whether and by which labor organization the
public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit shall be represented. The
ballot must contain the following:
1.The names of any labor organization that submits a
petition that contains signatures of at least ten percent of the public
employees within the appropriate bargaining unit.
2.A provision that allows the public employees to
indicate if the public employees desire to be represented by a labor
organization.
B.After a labor organization files a valid petition with
the board or a local board that calls for a representation election, other
labor organizations may seek to be placed on the ballot by filing a petition
that contains the signatures of at least ten percent of the public employees in
the appropriate bargaining unit. The petition must be filed not later than ten
days after the board or local board and the public employer post a written
notice that the petition that contains the signatures of at least thirty
percent of the public employees has been filed by a labor organization.
C.Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
board or a local board may establish an alternative appropriate procedure for
determining majority status. The board or local board may not certify any
appropriate bargaining unit if the public employer objects to the certification
without an election.
D.Within fifteen days after an election in which a
majority of the employees indicate the desire to be represented by a labor
organization, but no labor organization receives a majority of the votes cast,
a runoff election between the two choices that receive the largest number of
votes cast must be conducted. The board or a local board shall certify the
results of the election. If a labor organization receives a majority of the
votes cast, the board or local board shall certify the labor organization as
the exclusive representative of all public employees in the appropriate
bargaining unit.
E.An election may not be conducted if an election or
runoff election has been conducted within the twelve months that immediately
precede the proposed representation election. An election may not be held
during the term of an existing collective bargaining agreement, except as
provided by section 23-1432. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1431.Exclusive representation
A.A labor organization that has been certified by the
board or a local board to represent public employees in an appropriate
bargaining unit is the exclusive representative of all public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit.The exclusive representative shall act
for all public employees in the appropriate bargaining unit and negotiate a
collective bargaining agreement that covers all public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit.The exclusive representative shall
represent the interests of all public employees in the appropriate bargaining
unit without discrimination or regard to membership in the labor organization.
B.This section does not prevent a public employee from
acting individually and presenting a grievance without the intervention of the
exclusive representative.If a public employee individually brings a
grievance at any hearing, the exclusive representative is allowed to be present
and state opinions.Any adjustment that is made may not be
inconsistent with or in violation of the collective bargaining agreement that
is in effect between the public employer and the exclusive representative. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1432.Decertification of exclusive representative
A.Any labor organization or any member of a labor
organization may initiate decertification of a labor organization as the
exclusive representative if thirty percent of the public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit make a written request to the board or a local
board for a decertification election. A decertification election must be held
in a manner prescribed by the board or local board.
B.If a collective bargaining agreement is in effect for
less than three years, a request for a decertification election must be made to
the board or a local board not earlier than ninety days and not later than
sixty days before the expiration of the collective bargaining
agreement.If a collective bargaining agreement is in effect for
more than three years, a request for an election may be filed at any time.
C.If, within the time period prescribed in subsection B
of this section, a competing labor organization files a petition that contains
the signatures of at least thirty percent of the public employees in the
appropriate bargaining unit, a representation election must be conducted
instead of a decertification election.
D.If an exclusive representative has been certified but
no collective bargaining agreement is in effect, the board or a local board may
not accept a request for a decertification election earlier than twelve months
after the labor organization has been certified as the exclusive representative.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1433.Scope of bargaining; membership dues; grievance procedure;
closed meetings
A.Except for public retirement systems that are established
by title 38, chapter 5, public employers and exclusive representatives:
1.Shall bargain in good faith on wages, hours and other
terms and conditions of employment and other issues agreed to by the
parties.The public employer and the exclusive representative are
not required to agree to a proposal or to make a concession.
2.May enter into written collective bargaining
agreements that cover employment relations.
B.The obligation to collectively bargain under this
article does not authorize public employers and exclusive representatives to
enter into any agreement that conflicts with any statute of this
state.If a conflict exists between a statute of this state and an
agreement that the public employer and the exclusive representative enter into
in collective bargaining, the statute governs.
C.Payroll deductions of the exclusive representative's
membership dues are a mandatory subject of bargaining. The amount of dues must
be certified in writing by an official of the labor organization and may not
include special assessments, penalties or fines. The duty of the public
employer to honor payroll deductions must continue until the public employee
revokes the authorization in writing according to the negotiated agreement and
for as long as the labor organization is certified as the exclusive
representative. During the time that a board certification is in effect for a
particular appropriate bargaining unit, the public employer may not deduct dues
for any other labor organization.
D.Occupational groups shall negotiate all issues at the
state level.
E.Any impasse resolution or any agreement provision by
this state and an exclusive representative that requires the expenditure of
monies must be contingent on the specific appropriation of monies by the
legislature and the availability of the monies.Any impasse
resolution or any agreement provision by a public employer other than this
state or the public schools and an exclusive representative that requires the
expenditure of monies must be contingent on the specific appropriation for
wages by the appropriate governing body and the availability of the monies.
Any agreement provision by a local school board and an exclusive representative
that requires the expenditure of monies must be contingent on ratification by
the appropriate governing body.
F.Every agreement must include a grievance procedure to
be used for the settlement of disputes that relate to employment terms and
conditions and related personnel matters. The grievance procedure must provide
for a final and binding determination.The final determination
constitutes an arbitration award. If there is a judicial review of the award,
the court shall determine if the award is arbitrary, unlawful, unreasonable,
capricious or not based on substantial evidence.The costs of any
arbitration proceeding that is conducted pursuant to this section must be
shared equally by the parties.
G.Notwithstanding title 38, chapter 3, article 3.1, the
following must be closed:
1.Meetings in which bargaining strategy is preliminary
to collective bargaining negotiations between a public employer and the
exclusive representative of the public employees of the public employer.
2.Collective bargaining sessions.
3.Consultations and impasse resolution procedures if the
public employer and the exclusive representative of the appropriate bargaining
unit are present. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1434.Impasse resolution; mediation; arbitration
A.The following negotiations and impasse procedures must
be followed between this state and the exclusive representative for state
employees:
1.The exclusive representative to this state shall file
a request for the beginning of initial negotiations in writing not later than
June 1 of the year in which negotiations are to take place. Negotiations must
begin not later than July 1 of that year.
2.In the years following initial negotiations pursuant
to paragraph 1 of this subsection, negotiations that this state and the
exclusive representative agree to must begin not later than August 1 following
the exclusive representative's submission of written notice to this state. The
exclusive representative shall submit the written notice to this state by July
1 of the year in which negotiations are to take place.
3.If an impasse occurs during negotiations between this
state and the exclusive representative and no agreement is reached by October
1, this state or the exclusive representative may request mediation services
from the board.The board shall assign a mediator from the federal
mediation and conciliation service to assist negotiations unless the parties
agree to another mediator.
4.The mediator shall provide services until an agreement
is reached, until the mediator believes that mediation services are no longer
helpful or until December 1, whichever occurs first.
5.If the impasse continues after December 1, this state
or the exclusive representative may request the formation of an arbitration
panel. The arbitration panel shall address the unresolved issues. The
arbitration panel shall consist of one member who is appointed by the exclusive
representative, one member who is appointed by this state and a third member
who is appointed by the other two members. If there is a judicial review of
the decision of the arbitration panel, the court shall determine whether the
decision is arbitrary, unlawful, unreasonable, capricious or not based on
substantial evidence.
B.Except for this state and the exclusive representative
for this state, all other public employers and exclusive representatives shall
follow the following impasse procedures:
1.If an impasse occurs and the public employer and the
exclusive representative cannot agree on a mediator, the public employer or the
exclusive representative may request from the board or local board that a
mediator be assigned to the negotiations. The board or local board shall
assign a mediator with the federal mediation and conciliation service to assist
negotiations.
2.If the impasse continues after a sixtyday
mediation period, either the public employer or the exclusive representative
may request the formation of an arbitration panel. The arbitration panel shall
consist of one member who is appointed by the exclusive representative, one
member who is appointed by the public employer and a third member who is
appointed by the other two members. If there is a judicial review of the
decision of the arbitration panel, the court shall determine whether the
decision is arbitrary, unlawful, unreasonable, capricious or not based on
substantial evidence.
C.Except for this state, a public employer may enter
into a written agreement with the exclusive representative that establishes an
alternative impasse resolution procedure. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1435.Prohibited practices; public employers; public employees
A.It is a prohibited practice for a public employer or its
designated representative to do any of the following:
1.Interfere with, restrain or coerce, or threaten to
interfere with, restrain or coerce, any employee in or because of the exercise
of any rights that are guaranteed by this article.
2.Control, dominate or interfere with the formation,
existence or administration of any labor organization or support or in any way
encourage employees to join any organization in preference to another.
3.Discriminate or retaliate against any employee for
filing a grievance or for asserting rights under this article.
4.Refuse or fail to meet and confer in good faith with
the exclusive representative or refuse or fail to participate in good faith in
the mediation or arbitration.
5.Deny a labor organization rights that are guaranteed
to it by this chapter.
6.Refuse or fail to comply with this article or any rule
that is adopted by the board or local board.
7.Refuse or fail to comply with any collective
bargaining agreement.
8.Engage in a lockout of any employees.
B.It is a prohibited practice for a public employee or a
labor organization to do any of the following:
1.Interfere with, restrain or coerce, or threaten to
interfere with, restrain or coerce, any employee in or because of the exercise
of rights that are guaranteed by this article.
2.Discriminate or retaliate against any employee for
filing a grievance or for asserting rights under this article.
3.Discriminate against a public employee regarding
membership in a labor organization because of race, color, creed, age, sex or
national origin.
4.Refuse to enter into collective bargaining in good
faith with the public employer.
5.Refuse or fail to meet and confer in good faith with
the exclusive representative, including refusal or failure to participate in
good faith in mediation or arbitration.
6.Refuse or fail to comply with any collective
bargaining agreement or this article.
7.Picket homes or private businesses of elected
officials or public employees.
8.Induce, authorize or participate in a strike against
any public employer. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1436.Strikes and lockouts; prohibition; decertification
A.A public employee or labor organization may not engage
in a strike. A labor organization may not cause, instigate, encourage or
support a public employee strike.A public employer may not cause,
instigate or engage in any public employee lockout.
B.A public employer may bring an action for injunctive
relief to end a strike. The exclusive representative of public employees who
are affected by a lockout may bring an action for injunctive relief to end a
lockout.
C.Any labor organization that causes, instigates,
encourages or supports a public employee strike, walkout or slowdown may be
decertified as the exclusive representative for that appropriate bargaining
unit by either the board or a local board and may not serve as the exclusive
representative of any bargaining unit of public employees for a period that
does not exceed one year. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1437.Agreements; enforcement
All collective bargaining agreements and other agreements between
public employers and exclusive representatives are valid and enforceable
according to the terms of the agreement if entered into pursuant to this
article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE23-1438.Judicial enforcement
A.The terms of any agreement may be enforced by either
party by a civil action in the superior court in the county in which the
agreement was made. The board or a local board may request the court to
enforce an order that is issued pursuant to this article, including orders for
appropriate temporary relief and restraining orders.The court shall
consider the request for enforcement on the record made before the board or
local board. The court shall uphold the action of the board or local board and
take appropriate action to enforce the board's or local board's action unless
the court concludes that the order is:
1.Arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion.
2.Not supported by substantial evidence on the record
considered as a whole.
3.Not in accordance with law.
B.Any person or party, including any labor organization
that is affected by a final rule, order or decision of the board or a local
board, may appeal to the court for further relief. All appeals must be based
on the record made at the board or local board hearing. All appeals to the
court must be taken within thirty days after the date of the final rule, order
or decision of the board or local board. Actions that are taken by the board
or local board must be affirmed unless the court concludes that the action is:
1.Arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion.
2.Not supported by substantial evidence on the record
taken as a whole.
3.Not in accordance with law. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section
41-1092.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1092.02.Appealable agency actions; application of procedural
rules; exemption from article
A.This article applies
to all contested cases as defined in section 411001 and all appealable
agency actions, except contested cases with or appealable agency actions of:
1.The state department
of corrections.
2.The board of
executive clemency.
3.The industrial
commission of Arizona.
4.The Arizona
corporation commission.
5.The Arizona board of
regents and institutions under its jurisdiction.
6.The state personnel
board.
7.The department of
juvenile corrections.
8.The department of
transportation.
9.The department of
economic security except as provided in section 46458.
10.The department of
revenue regarding:
(a)Income tax or
withholding tax.
(b)Any tax issue
related to information associated with the reporting of income tax or withholding
tax unless the taxpayer requests in writing that this article apply and waives
confidentiality under title 42, chapter 2, article 1.
11.The board of tax
appeals.
12.The state board
of equalization.
13.The state board
of education, but only in connection with contested cases and appealable agency
actions related to applications for issuance or renewal of a certificate and
discipline of certificate holders pursuant to sections 15203, 15534,
15534.01, 15535, 15545 and 15550.
14.The board of
fingerprinting.
15.The department of
child safety except as provided in sections 8506.01 and 8811.
16.The public employee labor relations
board.
B.Unless waived by all
parties, an administrative law judge shall conduct all hearings under this article,
and the procedural rules set forth in this article and rules made by the
director apply.
C.Except as provided in
subsection A of this section:
1.A contested case
heard by the office of administrative hearings regarding taxes administered
under title 42 shall be subject to the provisions under section 421251.
2.A final decision of
the office of administrative hearings regarding taxes administered under title
42 may be appealed by either party to the director of the department of
revenue, or a taxpayer may file and appeal directly to the board of tax appeals
pursuant to section 421253.
D.Except as provided in
subsections A, B, E, F and G of this section and notwithstanding any other
administrative proceeding or judicial review process established in statute or
administrative rule, this article applies to all appealable agency actions and
to all contested cases.
E.Except for a
contested case or an appealable agency action regarding unclaimed property,
sections 411092.03, 411092.08 and 411092.09 do not apply
to the department of revenue.
F.The board of appeals
established by section 37213 is exempt from:
1.The time frames for
hearings and decisions provided in section 411092.05, subsection A,
section 411092.08 and section 411092.09.
2.The requirement in
section 411092.06, subsection A to hold an informal settlement
conference at the appellant's request if the sole subject of an appeal pursuant
to section 37215 is the estimate of value reported in an appraisal of
lands or improvements.
G.Auction protest
procedures pursuant to title 37, chapter 2, article 4.1 are exempt from this
article. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Title 41,
chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
41-3026.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3026.01.Public employee labor relations board; termination July 1,
2026
A.The public employee labor relations board terminates
on July 1, 2026.
B.Title 23, chapter 8, article 7 is repealed on January
1, 2027. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Purpose
Pursuant to section 41-2955,
subsection E, Arizona Revised Statutes, the purpose of the public employee
labor relations board is to encourage conciliation, mediation and voluntary
arbitration and to aid and encourage employers and their employees to reach and
maintain collective bargaining agreements concerning rates of pay, hours and
working conditions and to make all reasonable efforts through negotiations to
settle their differences by mutual agreement reached through collective
bargaining or by those methods as may be provided for in any applicable
agreement for the settlement of disputes.

