







REFERENCE TITLE: vexatious litigants; workers'
  compensation







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1323









Introduced by
Senators
  Yee, Kavanagh, Lesko; Representative Fann: Senators Donahue, Driggs, Farnsworth
  D, Smith, Worsley





AN ACT

Amending title
23, chapter 6, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
23-941.02; relating to workers' compensation.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 23, chapter 6, article 3,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 23-941.02, to read:
START_STATUTE23-941.02.Vexatious litigants; designation; definitions
A.In a
workers' compensation case before the commission, on the motion of a party, the
chief administrative law judge or an administrative law judge designated by the
chief administrative law judge may designate a pro se litigant a vexatious
litigant. The pro se litigant shall respond within thirty days after the
motion. The chief administrative law judge, or administrative law judge
if designated by the chief administrative law judge, shall issue an order
within thirty days after the pro se litigant's response is received or the time
for response has elapsed.
B.A pro se
litigant who is designated a vexatious litigant may not file a new request for
hearing, pleading, motion or other document without prior leave of the
administrative law judge.
C.A pro se
litigant is a vexatious litigant if the commission finds the pro se litigant
engaged in vexatious conduct. A designation of vexatious litigant is suspended
during the period in which the litigant is represented by legal counsel.
D.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Vexatious
conduct" includes any of the following:
(a)Repeated
filing of requests for hearing, pleadings, motions or other documents solely or
primarily for the purpose of harassment.
(b)Unreasonably
expanding or delaying commission proceedings. 
(c)Bringing
or defending claims without
substantial justification. 
(d)Engaging
in abuse of discovery or conduct in discovery that has resulted in the
imposition of sanctions against the pro se litigant. 
(e)A
pattern of making unreasonable, repetitive and excessive requests for
information. 
(f)Repeated
filing of documents or requests for relief that have been the subject of
previous rulings by the commission in the same claim.
2."Without
substantial justification" has the same meaning prescribed in section 12349.
END_STATUTE

