







REFERENCE TITLE: insurance; prohibited inducements;
  exceptions







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1494









Introduced by
Senators
  Farnsworth D, Bradley, Dalessandro, Hobbs; Representative Fann: Senators
  Farley, Meza, Shooter, Worsley; Representative Cobb





AN ACT

Amending sections
20449 and 20452, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to Insurance
business.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 20-449, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-449.Rebates on life or disability insurance
A.Except
as otherwise expressly provided by law, no person shall knowingly permit or
offer to make or make any contract of life insurance, life annuity or
disability insurance, or agreement as to such contract other than as plainly
expressed in the contract issued thereon, or pay or allow, or give or offer to
pay, allow or give, directly or indirectly, as an inducement to such insurance
or annuity, any rebate of premiums payable on the contract, or any special
favor or advantage in the dividends or other benefits thereon, or any valuable
consideration or inducement whatever not specified in the contract.
B.This
section does not prohibit an insurer from retaining an independent third party
to conduct a customer feedback effort intended to help the insurer improve the
quality of its products or services and to offer an insured business or
individual a reasonable incentive to participate in the feedback effort. An
incentive is presumed reasonable if it does not exceed two hundred dollars. An
insurer may not offer, reference or promote an incentive or feedback effort under
this section in connection with an application for or renewal of insurance
coverage. For the purposes of this subsection, "feedback effort"
means activities that are designed to elicit customer perceptions on a
predetermined set of topics that are related to the insurer's products or
services, including in person, telephonic or online surveys, polls, focus
groups, interviews, questionnaires and other recognized opinion gathering
mechanisms. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 20-452, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-452.Prohibited inducements
Except as permitted in sections 20453 and 20454,
any insurer, insurance producer or other person, as an inducement to insurance
or in connection with any insurance transaction, shall not provide in any
policy for or offer, sell, buy or offer or promise to buy, sell, give, promise
or allow to the insured or prospective insured or to any other person on behalf
of the insured or prospective insured in any manner:
1.Any employment.
2.Any shares of stock or other securities issued or
at any time to be issued or any interest therein or rights thereto.
3.Any advisory board contract, or any similar
contract, agreement or understanding, offering, providing for or promising any
special profits.
4.Any prizes, goods, wares, merchandise or tangible
property of an aggregate value of more than twentyfive dollars. This paragraph does not prohibit an insurer
from retaining an independent third party to conduct a customer feedback effort
intended to help the insurer improve the quality of its products or services
and to offer an insured business or individual a reasonable incentive to
participate in the feedback effort. An incentive is presumed reasonable if it
does not exceed two hundred dollars. An insurer may not offer, reference or
promote an incentive or feedback effort under this paragraph in connection with
an application for or renewal of insurance coverage.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "feedback effort" means activities that
are designed to elicit customer perceptions on a predetermined set of topics
that are related to the insurer's products or services, including in person,
telephonic or online surveys, polls, focus groups, interviews, questionnaires
and other recognized opinion gathering mechanisms. END_STATUTE

