







REFERENCE TITLE: industrial commission; compensation 







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016





SB 1420









Introduced by
Senators
  Yee, Begay, Dalessandro, Driggs; Representative Petersen: Senators Allen S,
  Barto, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Donahue, Griffin, Lesko, Meza, Miranda,
  Pancrazi, Shooter, Smith; Representative Rivero





AN ACT

Amending sections
23101, 23108 and 23108.01, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to the industrial commission of Arizona.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-101.Industrial commission; members; qualifications;
appointment; terms; compensation; removal
A.There shall be an industrial commission of
Arizona.
B.The commission shall be composed of five members
appointed by the governor pursuant to section 38211.Each
member shall be appointed for a term of five years.The terms of the members serving on the commission on the
effective date of this section shall terminate January 8, 1969.Of
the members of the commission first appointed, one shall serve for a term
ending January 8, 1970, and one each for terms ending one, two, three, and four
years thereafter.Thereafter one term shall Members' terms expire on the
third Monday in January of each
the appropriate year.Not
more than three members of the commission shall belong to the same political
party.The chairman of the commission shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the governor. The members of the commission shall
have been residents of the state for at
least five years immediately preceding their original appointment.
C.Each commissioner shall receive a salary of fifty
dollars per day for each day in which he
performs his duties as a commissioner the commissioner prepares for or attends a commission
meeting. To receive the salary provided in this subsection, each commissioner
shall provide documentation to the director of the commission that explains
what commission duties were completed for the day in which the commissioner is
seeking a salary.
D.The governor may remove a member of the
commission for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, misfeasance or
nonfeasance in office. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 23-108, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-108.Director; employees; compensation and expenses
A.The commission shall employ a director who is subject to confirmation by the senate appointed by the governor pursuant to
section 38211 and who serves at the pleasure of the governor.Subject
to title 41, chapter 4, article 4, the director may employ such personnel as deemed necessary by the
provisions of this chapter, chapters
1, 2 and 6 of this title and chapter 3, article 2 of chapter 3 of this title.
B.The compensation of the director shall be as
determined pursuant to section 38611.The director shall have
such administrative ability, education and training as the commission
determines. The director shall
serve at the pleasure of the governor.
C.The compensation of the director and commission
employees and payment of subsistence and travel expenses allowed by law shall
be paid from the administrative fund. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 23-108.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-108.01.Powers and duties of director
A.The
director of the commission,
under the supervision of the commission, shall administer the policies, powers
and duties of the commission as prescribed by this chapter, chapters 1, 2 and 6 of this title and chapter 3, article 2 of chapter 3 of this title.
B.The
director of the commission may deny the salary of a commissioner if the
commissioner does not provide documentation that explains what commission
duties were completed for the day in which the commissioner is seeking a salary
or if the commission duties were not related to preparing for or attending a
commission meeting. END_STATUTE

