







REFERENCE TITLE: trade names; trademarks; application







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1401









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

amending sections
44-1443 and 44-1460, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the secretary of
state.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-1443, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1443.Application for registration
A.Subject to the limitations set forth in this
article, any person who is domiciled in this state and who adopts and uses a
trademark or service mark, or any person who adopts and uses a trademark or
service mark in this state, may file in the office of the secretary of state,
on a form to be furnished by the secretary of state, an application for
registration of that mark setting forth, but not limited to, the following
information:
1.The name and business address of the person
applying for such registration and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation.
2.The goods or services in connection with which
the mark is used, the mode or manner in which the mark is used in connection
with such goods or services and the class in which such goods or services fall.
3.The date when the mark was first used anywhere,
and the date when it was first used in this state by the applicant or his the applicant's predecessor in business.
4.A statement that the applicant is the owner of
the mark and that no other person has the right to use such mark in this state
either in the identical form thereof or in such near resemblance thereto as
might be calculated to deceive or to be mistaken therefor.
5.A statement
that the applicant has conducted a search and found that the trademark or
service mark does not consist of or comprise a mark that so resembles a mark
registered in this state or a mark or trade name previously used in this state
by another and not abandoned and that when applied to the goods or services of
the applicant is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive.
6.A
statement whether the applicant previously sought to register the trademark or
service mark with the United States patent and trademark office and if so and
the registration was denied, the reasons for the denial.
B.The application shall be:
1.Signed and verified by the applicant, or by a member of the
firm or any officer of the corporation or association applying.
2.Accompanied by a specimen or facsimile of such
mark in triplicate. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-1460, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1460.Registration of trade name, title or designation
A.Any person, partnership, corporation, firm,
association, society, foundation, federation or organization doing business in
this state, or any
foreign corporation licensed to exercise its corporate powers in this state,
may register with the secretary of state, on a form to be furnished by him the secretary of state, the name, title or
designation under which such applicant is operating, setting forth, but not
limited to, the following information:
1.The name and business address of the applicant
for such registration.If the applicant is a corporation, the state
of its incorporation shall be disclosed.
2.The name, title or designation to be registered.
3.The general nature of the business conducted by
the applicant.
4.The length of time during which the name, title
or designation has been used by the applicant in his the
applicant's business operations in this state.
5.A
statement that the applicant has conducted a search and found that the trade
name, title or designation is distinguishable on the record from both of the
following:
(a)Any other name previously filed
and on record with the secretary of state.
(b)An existing corporate name or a
corporate name reserved pursuant to title 10, chapters 4, 19 and 24 through 40.
B.The applicant or a member or officer of the firm,
partnership, corporation, association, society, foundation, federation or other
organization shall sign and verify the application.
C.A single name, title or designation may be
registered upon on each application submitted
under the provisions of
this article. END_STATUTE

