







REFERENCE TITLE: payroll deductions; charitable
  contributions; prohibition







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1485









Introduced by
Senators
  Biggs, Allen S, Kavanagh, Smith, Yarbrough, Yee; Representatives Farnsworth
  E, Petersen: Senators Griffin, Shooter





AN ACT

amending section
38-612, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to administration of payroll salary
deductions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 38-612, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE38-612.Administration of payroll salary deductions; prohibition;
definition
A.There shall be no payroll salary deductions from
the compensation of state officers or employees except as specifically
authorized by federal law or regulation or by a statute of this state. No
administrative agency of this state may authorize any other deduction.
B.In addition to those payroll salary deductions
required by federal law or regulation or by statute, state officers or
employees may authorize deductions to be made from their salaries or wages for
the payment of:
1.Premiums on any health benefits, disability plans
or group life plans provided for by statute and any existing insurance programs
already provided by payroll deduction.
2.Shares or obligations to any state or federally
chartered credit union established primarily for the purpose of serving state officers
and employees and their families.
3.Dues in a recognized association comprised
principally of employees and former employees of agencies of this state,
subject to the following criteria:
(a)When comprised
composed of at least one
thousand state employees other than employees of the state universities, the
department of public safety and academic personnel of the Arizona state schools
for the deaf and the blind.
(b)When comprised
composed of at least
twentyfive per cent percent of the academic
personnel or of the nonacademic employees of any state university.
(c)When comprised
composed of at least
twentyfive per cent percent of the academic
personnel of the Arizona state schools for the deaf and the blind.
(d)When comprised
composed of at least five
hundred state employees who are certified as peace officers by the Arizona
peace officer standards and training board established by section 411821.
4.Deferred compensation or tax sheltered annuity
salary reductions when made under approved plans.
5.Federal savings bond plans.
6.Recurrent fees, charges or other payments payable
to a state agency under a collection plan approved by the director of the
department of administration.
7.Except as
provided in subsection F of this section, contributions made to a
charitable organization: 
(a)Organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes and selected by the presidents of the state universities.
Employees of the state universities shall be advised by form of the charitable
organizations to which they may contribute through payroll salary deductions.
The advisory provided under this subdivision shall be substantially similar to
the following and prominently printed:
"You may contribute to any
charitable organization registered under internal revenue code section
501(c)(3), tax exempt status.
________________________________
Charitable organization name"
This subdivision applies only to academic personnel and
nonacademic employees of the state universities.
(b)Organized and operated exclusively for
charitable purposes, provided a fund drive by such an organization shall be
applicable to all state agencies except the state universities covered under
subdivision (a) of this paragraph and no state officer or employee of state
agencies subject to this subdivision may authorize more than one deduction for
charitable purposes to be in effect at the same time. This subdivision applies
to all state agencies except the universities covered under subdivision (a) of
this paragraph.
8.Contributions made for the purpose of
contributing to a fund raising campaign for a university or a club for faculty
or staff, or both, which is recognized by the university president and
authorized by the Arizona board of regents. This paragraph applies only to
academic personnel and nonacademic employees of the state universities.
9.Charges payable for transportation expenses
pursuant to section 41710.01.
10.Payments ordered by courts of competent
jurisdiction within this state.
11.Automobile or homeowner's insurance premiums.
12.Premiums for the following state sponsored group
benefits that are established primarily for the purpose of serving state
officers and employees and their families:
(a)Long-term care insurance.
(b)Critical care insurance.
(c)Prepaid legal services.
(d)Identity theft protection services.
13.A computer system as defined in section 132301
for personal use.
C.In order for the department of administration to
establish and maintain a dues deduction pursuant to subsection B, paragraph 3
of this section, the department of administration may establish and maintain
the deduction without the appropriation of any additional monies or
technological improvements.The department of administration shall
track all personnel hours dedicated to dues deduction.The
department of administration may charge a fee to a recognized association that
qualifies under subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section for establishing the
automatic dues deduction and anytime changes are needed in the automatic dues
deduction system as a result of an increase or decrease in association dues.
If the membership criteria of a recognized association falls below the criteria
set forth in subsection B, paragraph 3 of this section, the recognized association
shall be on probation for one year. If the membership of a recognized
association falls below the criteria set forth in subsection B, paragraph 3 of
this section for more than one year, or if the members of the association
engage in a work slowdown or work stoppage, the dues deduction authorized by
this section shall immediately be discontinued.
D.For those state officers and employees under
payroll systems which are under the direction of the director of the department
of administration, the director shall provide for the administration of payroll
deductions for the purposes set forth in this section. For all other state
officers and employees and for persons receiving allowances or benefits under
other state payroll and retirement systems, the appropriate state officer shall
provide for such administration of payroll deductions. Such administration
shall operate without cost or contribution from the state other than the
incidental expense of making the deductions and remittances to the payees. If any
payee requests additional services, the director of the department of
administration or any other appropriate state officer may require payment for
the additional cost of providing such services.
E.As a means of readily identifying the employee
from whom payroll deductions are to be made, the state officer administering
payroll deductions may request an employee to enter such employee's social
security identification number on the payroll deduction authorization. Such
number shall not be used for any other purpose.
F.There
shall be no payroll salary deductions from the compensation of state officers
or employees for contributions made to a charitable organization that performs
a nonfederally qualified abortion or maintains or operates a facility where a
nonfederally qualified abortion is performed for the provision of family
planning services.For the purposes of this subsection,
"nonfederally qualified abortion" has the same meaning prescribed in
section 35-196.05.
F.G.The state, the
director of the department of administration or any other appropriate state
officer shall be relieved of any liability to employees authorizing deductions
or organizations receiving deductions that may result from authorizations
pursuant to this section. END_STATUTE

