







REFERENCE TITLE: electronic records; storage







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1461









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley: Farnsworth D





AN ACT

amending sections
44-7012 and 44-7042, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to electronic
transactions.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 44-7012, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7012.Electronic records retention; originals; definition
A.If a law requires that a record be retained, the
requirement is satisfied by retaining an electronic record of the information
in the record that:
1.Accurately reflects the information prescribed in
the record after the record was first generated in its final form as an
electronic record or otherwise.
2.Remains accessible for later reference.
B.Subsection
A does not apply to any information whose sole purpose is to enable the record
to be sent, communicated or received.
C.B.A
person may satisfy subsection A of this
section by using the services of another person to satisfy
subsection A of this section.
D.C.If a
law requires:
1.A record to be presented or retained in its
original form, or provides consequences if the record is not presented or
retained in its original form, that law is satisfied by an electronic record
retained according to subsection A of
this section.
2.Retention of a check, that requirement is
satisfied by retention of an electronic record of the information on the front
and back of the check according to subsection A of this section.
E.D.A
record retained as an electronic record pursuant to subsection A of this section satisfies a law
that requires a person to retain a record for evidentiary, audit or like
purposes, unless a law that is enacted after the effective date of this chapter July 18, 2000 prohibits the use
of an electronic record for the specified purpose.
F.This section
does not prohibit a governmental agency from adopting additional requirements
for the retention of a record that is subject to that agency's jurisdiction.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "law" includes a governmental agency's
policy.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 44-7042, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-7042.Sending and accepting electronic records
A.Except as otherwise provided in section 44-7012,
subsection E D, each governmental agency
shall determine if, and the extent to which, the governmental agency will send
and accept electronic records and electronic signatures to and from other
persons and otherwise create, generate, communicate, store, process, use and
rely on electronic records and electronic signatures. State agencies shall
comply with the appropriate standards and policies adopted or established by
the department of administration pursuant to title 41, chapter 32 and the
secretary of state pursuant to section 41132.
B.To the extent that a governmental agency uses
electronic records and electronic signatures pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the governmental agency after giving due consideration to security may
specify:
1.The manner and format in which the electronic
records must be created, generated, sent, communicated, received and stored and
the systems established for those purposes.
2.If electronic records must be signed by
electronic means, the type of electronic signature required, the manner and
format in which the electronic signature must be affixed to the electronic
record and the identity of or criteria that must be met by any third party used
by a person filing a document to facilitate the process.
3.Control processes and procedures as appropriate
to ensure adequate preservation, disposition, integrity, security,
confidentiality and ability to perform audits of electronic records.
4.Any other required attributes for electronic
records that are specified for corresponding nonelectronic records or that are
reasonably necessary under the circumstances.
C.Except as otherwise provided in section 447012,
subsection E D, this chapter does not
require a governmental agency to use or allow the use of electronic records or
electronic signatures.END_STATUTE

