







REFERENCE TITLE: industries for blind; repeal; successor







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1411









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs, Biggs; Representative Brophy McGee: Senator Shooter; Representative Boyer





AN ACT

amending section
5406, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing title 41, Chapter 14, article
1.1, Arizona revised statutes; repealing section 412501, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82; amending section 412501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30;
amending section 412636, Arizona Revised Statutes; appropriating monies;
relating to Arizona industries for the blind.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-406, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-406.Persons permitted to conduct games; premises; equipment;
expenses; compensation
A.A person shall not hold, operate or conduct any
game of bingo under any license issued pursuant to this article unless the
person has submitted affidavits as required in section 5404 and has
received prior written approval from the licensing
authority.Persons seeking to replace a manager, proceeds
coordinator, supervisor or assistant or to serve as an additional manager,
supervisor or assistant shall submit the appropriate affidavit to the licensing
authority as required in section 5404.
B.Except as provided in section 5413, only
members and new members of a licensee or an applicant may participate or apply
to participate in conducting any bingo game held by the licensee.
C.Except for a class A licensee, a person shall not
hold, operate, conduct or assist in conducting any game or games of bingo under
any license if the person or the person's spouse has a proprietary, equitable
or credit interest, or is an officer, director, agent or employee of an
individual or company that has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, in
the licensee.
D.Bookkeepers or accountants need not be members of
the organization.
E.An item of expense shall not be incurred or paid
in connection with holding, operating or conducting any game of bingo held,
operated or conducted pursuant to any license issued under this article, except
bona fide expenses in a reasonable amount for purposes described in section 5407,
subsection G.A game of bingo shall not be conducted with any
equipment except equipment owned solely by the licensee, or jointly by not more
than six licensees.No portion of the ownership of such equipment
may be held by any person or organization not licensed pursuant to this
chapter.A game of bingo shall not be conducted with rented
equipment.
F.An applicant or a licensee shall not enter into
any purchase agreement other than a bona fide purchase
agreement.The seller may repurchase equipment only upon default of
the buyer and then only at a price equal to or greater than ninety per cent percent of any money paid for equipment from
buyer to seller.The seller may repurchase a building only upon
default of the buyer at a fair market value per licensee.
G.A licensee shall not conduct or operate more than
five occasions of bingo during any calendar week. No more than
twelve hours of bingo shall be conducted in any building or on any premises
during any calendar day.
H.The entire net proceeds of any game shall be
devoted to a lawful use or uses.In addition to other unlawful uses,
the following are not considered lawful uses under this subsection:
1.Compensation and expenses of directors, officers
and management personnel.
2.Fees or commissions of consultants.
3.Compensation paid for legal services incurred by
a licensee unsuccessfully defending against charges of violations of this
article.
4.Donations to other than national, state or local
nonprofit parent organizations in excess of five per cent percent of the net proceeds except with the permission of
the licensing authority.
5.Donations or any payment from the lessor to the
lessee.
I.The premises where any game of bingo is being
held, operated or conducted, where it is intended that any game of bingo shall
be held, operated or conducted or where it is intended that any equipment shall
be used shall at all times be open to inspection by the licensing authority,
its agents and employees and peace officers of any political subdivision of the
state.
J.When any merchandise prize is awarded in a game
of bingo, its value shall be its current retail price.A merchandise
prize shall not be redeemable or convertible into cash directly or indirectly.
K.Equipment, prizes and supplies for games of bingo
shall not be purchased or sold at prices in excess of one hundred fifteen per cent percent of the average price paid by other
licensees as reported in the reports submitted to the licensing authority
during the prior six month period by licensees having the same class of
license.A licensee shall not enter into any contract or purchase
agreement whereby it agrees to limit its source of supplies.
L.An alcoholic beverage shall not be offered or
given as a prize in any such game.
M.The net profits derived from the holding of games
of bingo must be devoted within one year from the date such profits were earned
to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct such
games.Any organization desiring to hold the net profits of games of
bingo for a period longer than one year from the date such profits were earned
must apply to the licensing authority for special permission and upon good
cause shown the authority may grant the request.
N.Any licensee which does not report during any oneyear
period the amount of its net profits, if any, shall be required to show cause
before the licensing authority why its license to conduct games of bingo should
not be revoked.
O.The licensing authority shall require a licensee
which does not conduct bingo games during any one year period to show cause why
its license to conduct games of bingo should not be cancelled.
P.Except as otherwise provided by this section, a
prize greater in amount or value than one thousand dollars shall not be offered
or given in any single game of bingo conducted under any such license, and
total prizes shall not exceed an amount or value greater than three thousand
dollars for any occasion.Door prizes, discounts or other
inducements with a value exceeding two hundred fifty dollars per occasion shall
not be offered or given away.
Q.Except for a class A licensee, on application to
the licensing authority by the licensee the licensing authority may authorize
one special bonus game to be played at weekly consecutive occasions with a
quarterly prize limit of twelve thousand dollars.A weekly consecutive
occasion is an occasion played on the same day of each week during the
quarter.The special bonus game may be played at each weekly
consecutive occasion subject to the rules adopted by the licensing
authority.The special bonus game is not subject to the prize limits
prescribed by subsection P of this section.
R.The equipment used in playing bingo and the
method of play shall be such that each card shall have an equal opportunity to
be a winner.The objects or balls to be drawn shall be essentially the
same as to size, shape, weight, balance and all other characteristics that may
influence their selection.All objects or balls shall be present in
the receptacle before each game is begun.All numbers announced
shall be plainly and clearly audible or visible to all the players
present.Where more than one room is used for any one game, the
receptacle, the person calling the numbers as they are drawn and the person
removing the objects or balls from the receptacle must be present in the room
where the greatest number of players is present and all numbers announced shall
be plainly audible or visible to the players in that room and also audible or
visible to the players in the other room or rooms.The cards or
sheets of the players shall be part of a deck, group or series of cards, no two
of which shall be alike, and which deck, group or series shall not be so
prepared or arranged as to prefer any card.A licensee may provide
braille cards for legally blind persons as
defined in section 411973 or allow legally blind persons
to supply their own braille cards.A legally blind person supplying
the person's own cards shall pay a fee to the licensee equal to that which
would be charged if the legally blind person obtained the cards from the licensee.
The bingo game activity shall be conducted and recorded in a manner as
prescribed by the licensing authority to verify the gross receipts from each
occasion.
S.The receptacle, the person calling the numbers as
they are drawn and the person removing the objects or balls from the receptacle
must be visible to all the players at all times except where more than one room
is used for any one game and subsection R of this section applies.
T.The particular arrangement of numbers required to
be covered in order to win the game and the amount of the prize shall be
clearly and audibly or visibly described and announced to the players
immediately before each game is begun.
U.Any players shall be entitled to call for a
verification of all numbers drawn at the time a winner is determined, and for a
verification of the objects or balls remaining in the receptacle and not yet
drawn.The verification shall be made in the immediate presence of
the supervisor and in full view of any player requesting the verification.
V.A person who is not physically present on the
premises where the game is actually conducted shall not be allowed to
participate as a player in the game.
W.A person who holds, operates or conducts, or
assists in holding, operating or conducting, a game of bingo shall not play at
any occasion at which such person works unless the game of bingo is conducted
pursuant to a class A license.
X.A person shall not conduct a lottery or raffle
within a twelve hour period before or after a bingo occasion or game on any
premises used for bingo games or within one thousand feet of the bingo
game.This subsection does not affect any legally conducted activity
related to the state lottery.END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Repeal
Title 41, chapter
14, article 1.1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.3.Repeal
Section 41-2501,
Arizona Revised Statutes, as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 195, section 82, is
repealed.
Sec.4.Section 41-2501, Arizona Revised Statutes,
as amended by Laws 2015, chapter 257, section 30, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2501.Applicability
A.This chapter applies only to procurements
initiated after January1, 1985 unless the parties agree to its
application to procurements initiated before that date.
B.This chapter applies to every expenditure of
public monies, including federal assistance monies except as otherwise
specified in section 412637, by this state, acting through a state governmental
unit as defined in this chapter, under any contract, except that this chapter
does not apply to either grants as defined in this chapter, or contracts
between this state and its political subdivisions or other governments, except
as provided in chapter 24 of this title and in article 10 of this
chapter.This chapter also applies to the disposal of state
materials.This chapter and rules adopted under this chapter do not
prevent any state governmental unit or political subdivision from complying
with the terms of any grant, gift, bequest or cooperative agreement.
C.All political subdivisions and other local public
agencies of this state may adopt all or any part of this chapter and the rules
adopted pursuant to this chapter.
D.Notwithstanding any other law, sections 412517
and 412546 apply to any agency as defined in section 411001,
including the office of the governor.
E.The Arizona board of regents and the legislative
and judicial branches of state government are not subject to this chapter
except as prescribed in subsection F of this section.
F.The Arizona board of regents and the judicial
branch shall adopt rules prescribing procurement policies and procedures for
themselves and institutions under their jurisdiction.The rules must
be substantially equivalent to the policies and procedures prescribed in this
chapter.
G.The Arizona state lottery commission is exempt
from this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation of the
lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets and related
materials.The executive director of the Arizona state lottery
commission shall adopt rules substantially equivalent to the policies and
procedures in this chapter for procurement relating to the design and operation
of the lottery or purchase of lottery equipment, tickets or related materials.
All other procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
H.The Arizona health care cost containment system
administration is exempt from this chapter for provider contracts pursuant to section
362904, subsection A and contracts for goods and services, including
program contractor contracts pursuant to title 36, chapter 29, articles 2 and 3 and contracts with regional behavioral
health authorities pursuant to title 36, chapter 34.All
other procurement, including contracts for the statewide administrator of the
program pursuant to section 362903, subsection B, shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
I.Arizona
industries for the blind is exempt from this chapter for purchases of finished
goods from members of national industries for the blind and for purchases of
raw materials for use in the manufacture of products for sale pursuant to
section 411972.All other procurement shall be as prescribed
by this chapter.
J.I.Arizona correctional
industries is exempt from this chapter for purchases of raw materials,
components and supplies that are used in the manufacture or production of goods
or services for sale entered into pursuant to section 411622. All other
procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
K.J.The state
transportation board and the director of the department of transportation are
exempt from this chapter other than section 412586 for the procurement
of construction or reconstruction, including engineering services, of
transportation facilities or highway facilities and any other services that are
directly related to land titles, appraisals, real property acquisition,
relocation, property management or building facility design and construction
for highway development and that are required pursuant to title 28, chapter 20.
L.K.The Arizona
highways magazine is exempt from this chapter for contracts for the production,
promotion, distribution and sale of the magazine and related products and for
contracts for sole source creative works entered into pursuant to section 287314,
subsection A, paragraph 5. All other procurement shall be as prescribed by
this chapter.
M.L.The secretary of
state is exempt from this chapter for contracts entered into pursuant to section
411012 to publish and sell the administrative code.All other
procurement shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
N.M.This chapter is
not applicable to contracts for professional witnesses if the purpose of such
contracts is to provide for professional services or testimony relating to an
existing or probable judicial proceeding in which this state is or may become a
party or to contract for special investigative services for law enforcement
purposes.
O.N.The head of any
state governmental unit, in relation to any contract exempted by this section
from this chapter, has the same authority to adopt rules, procedures or
policies as is delegated to the director pursuant to this chapter.
P.O.Agreements
negotiated by legal counsel representing this state in settlement of litigation
or threatened litigation are exempt from this chapter.
Q.P.This chapter is
not applicable to contracts entered into by the department of economic
security: 
1.With a provider licensed or certified by an agency
of this state to provide child day care services.
2.With area agencies on aging created pursuant to
the older Americans act of 1965 (P.L. 8973; 79 Stat. 218; 42 United
States Code sections 3001 through 3058ff).
3.For services pursuant to title 36, chapter 29,
article 2.
4.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672.
R.Q.The department of health services Arizona health care cost containment system may
not require that persons with whom it contracts follow this chapter for the
purposes of subcontracts entered into for the provision of the following:
1.Mental health services pursuant to section 36189,
subsection B.
2.Services for the seriously mentally ill pursuant
to title 36, chapter 5, article 10.
3.Drug and alcohol services pursuant to section 36141.
4.R.The department of health
services may not require that persons with whom it contracts follow this
chapter for the purpose of subcontracts entered into for the provision of domestic
violence services pursuant to title 36, chapter 30, article 1.
S.The department of health services is exempt from
this chapter for contracts for services of physicians at the Arizona state
hospital.
T.Contracts for goods and services approved by the
board of trustees of the public safety personnel retirement system are exempt
from this chapter.
U.The Arizona department of agriculture is exempt
from this chapter with respect to contracts for private labor and equipment to
effect cotton or cotton stubble plowup pursuant to rules adopted under
title 3, chapter2, article 1.
V.The Arizona state parks board is exempt from this
chapter for purchases of guest supplies and items for resale such as food,
linens, gift items, sundries, furniture, china, glassware and utensils for the
facilities located in the Tonto natural bridge state park.
W.The Arizona state parks board is exempt from this
chapter for the purchase, production, promotion, distribution and sale of
publications, souvenirs and sundry items obtained and produced for resale.
X.The Arizona state schools for the deaf and the blind
are exempt from this chapter for the purchase of textbooks and when purchasing
products through a cooperative that is organized and operates in accordance
with state law if such products are not available on a statewide contract and
are related to the operation of the schools or are products for which special
discounts are offered for educational institutions.
Y.Expenditures of monies in the morale, welfare and
recreational fund established by section 26153 are exempt from this
chapter.
Z.Notwithstanding section 412534, the
director of the state department of corrections may contract with local medical
providers in counties with a population of less than four hundred thousand
persons for the following purposes:
1.To acquire hospital and professional medical
services for inmates who are incarcerated in state department of corrections
facilities that are located in those counties.
2.To ensure the availability of emergency medical
services to inmates in all counties by contracting with the closest medical
facility that offers emergency treatment and stabilization.
AA.The department of environmental quality is
exempt from this chapter for contracting for procurements relating to the water
quality assurance revolving fund program established pursuant to title 49,
chapter 2, article5. The department shall engage in a source selection
process that is similar to the procedures prescribed by this
chapter.The department may contract for remedial actions with a
single selection process. The exclusive remedy for disputes or claims relating
to contracting pursuant to this subsection is as prescribed by article 9 of
this chapter and the rules adopted pursuant to that article. All other
procurement by the department shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
BB.The motor vehicle division of the department of
transportation is exempt from this chapter for thirdparty authorizations
pursuant to title 28, chapter 13, only if all of the following conditions
exist:
1.The division does not pay any public monies to an
authorized third party.
2.Exclusivity is not granted to an authorized third
party.
3.The director has complied with the requirements
prescribed in title 28, chapter 13 in selecting an authorized third party.
CC.This section does not exempt thirdparty
authorizations pursuant to title 28, chapter 13 from any other applicable law.
DD.The state forester is exempt from this chapter
for purchases and contracts relating to wildland fire suppression and prepositioning
equipment resources and for other activities related to combating wildland
fires and other unplanned risk activities, including fire, flood, earthquake,
wind and hazardous material responses. All other procurement by the state
forester shall be as prescribed by this chapter.
EE.The cotton research and protection council is
exempt from this chapter for procurements.
FF.Expenditures of monies in the Arizona
agricultural protection fund established by section 33304 are exempt
from this chapter.
GG.The Arizona commerce authority is exempt from
this chapter, except article 10 for the purpose of cooperative purchases. The
authority shall adopt policies, procedures and practices, in consultation with
the department of administration, that are similar to and based on the policies
and procedures prescribed by this chapter for the purpose of increased public
confidence, fair and equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process
and fostering broad competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the
authority's statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies,
procedures and practices available to the public. The authority may exempt
specific expenditures from the policies, procedures and practices.
HH.The Arizona exposition and state fair board is
exempt from this chapter for contracts for professional entertainment.
II.This chapter does not apply to the purchase of
water, gas or electric utilities.
JJ.This chapter does not apply to professional
certifications, professional memberships and conference registrations.
KK.The department of gaming is exempt from this
chapter for problem gambling treatment services contracts with licensed
behavioral health professionals.
LL.This chapter does not apply to contracts for
credit reporting services.
MM.This chapter does not apply to contracts entered
into by the department of child safety:
1.With a provider of family foster care pursuant to
section 8503.
2.With an eligible entity as defined by Public Law
105285, section 673(1)(A)(i), as amended, for designated community
services block grant program monies and any other monies given to the eligible
entity that accomplishes the purpose of Public Law 105285, section 672. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 41-2636, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2636.Procurement from certified nonprofit agencies that serve
individuals with disabilities and Arizona correctional industries; definitions
A.The director shall appoint a state set-aside
committee to determine those materials and services that are provided,
manufactured, produced and offered for sale by Arizona industries for the blind, certified
nonprofit agencies that serve individuals with disabilities and Arizona
correctional industries and that satisfy the requirements of state governmental
units and to establish a fair market price for all approved materials and
services offered for sale that meet these requirements.Membership
shall include the assistant director for rehabilitation services in the
department of economic security or the assistant director's designee and a
private sector businessperson appointed by the governor who contracts or
employs persons with disabilities in the private sector. At each quarterly
meeting the director shall report on new procurement requests or renewal of
existing procurement requests for state purchases from lists supplied by
set-aside providers and that are within the capability of and that can be supplied
by the entities that are prescribed in this section.To qualify for
setaside contracts, certified nonprofit agencies must maintain an
employment ratio of at least sixty per
cent percent of
program employees with significant disabilities.
B.Materials and services from Arizona correctional
industries shall be presented to the committee for approval.Office
products, vinyl binders and furniture refurbishing services shall be exempt
from this article.State governmental units shall purchase office
products, vinyl binders and furniture from Arizona correctional industries if
each of the following applies:
1.Such materials and services are readily
available.
2.Such materials and services are capable of timely
delivery.
3.Such materials and services are of equal quality
and price for these same materials and services in the private sector.
C.State governmental units shall purchase approved
materials and services if such materials and services are readily available.
D.Notwithstanding the requirements of section 412532,
state governmental units and local public procurement units may purchase or
contract for any products, materials and services directly from Arizona industries for the blind, certified
nonprofit agencies that serve individuals with disabilities and Arizona
correctional industries without competitive bidding if the delivery and quality
of the products, materials or services meet the unit's reasonable requirements.
E.All state governmental units shall endeavor to
set aside at least one per cent
percent of their new
purchases or contracts for any products, materials and services from the
entities that are prescribed in subsection D of this section, except for
contracts for care and services for clients of the department of child safety,
the department of economic security or the department of health services. The
department shall communicate with each state governmental unit regarding its
responsibility to comply with this subsection.The committee shall
meet quarterly to report progress in increasing state governmental purchases or
contracts with the entities that are prescribed in subsection D of this
section.The committee shall compile quarterly reports detailing new
purchases or contracts that are entered into pursuant to this subsection to the
director, each committee member, the governor, the president of the senate and
the speaker of the house of representatives.
F.The committee shall meet during the first month
of each fiscal year to determine which articles, products or services Arizona
correctional industries,
and certified nonprofit
agencies that serve individuals with disabilities and Arizona industries for the blind should
continue to manufacture for state use, to advise such agencies and industries
of any changes in specifications and to identify new articles or products that
should be manufactured or could be eligible for procurement. 
G.For the purposes of this section:
1."Certified nonprofit agency that serves
individuals with disabilities" means a nonprofit activity center that
serves individuals with significant disabilities and that satisfies all of the
following:
(a)Is organized under the laws of this state or
another state, is operated in the interest of individuals with disabilities and
the net income of which does not inure in whole or in part to the benefit of
any shareholder or other individual.
(b)Complies with any applicable occupational health
and safety standard required by the laws of the United States and this state.
2."Individuals with disabilities" means
an individual who, because of the nature of the individual's disabilities, is
not able to fully participate in competitive employment and for whom
specialized employment and training are necessary by a qualified nonprofit
organization through the department of economic security or the department of
health services. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Arizona industries for the blind; successor nonprofit
corporation; lease of department property
A.On or before July 1, 2017, the Arizona industries
for the blind shall perform all acts necessary to establish a successor
nonprofit corporation that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code for the purpose of establishing, sustaining and
improving employment opportunities for people who are blind or visually
impaired. The successor nonprofit corporation shall operate to the same extent
as any other nonprofit corporation with all the powers and subject to all the
laws, rules and requirements of any other nonprofit corporation organized under
title 10, chapters 24 through 40, Arizona Revised Statutes.
B.The Arizona industries for the blind shall
perform all acts necessary to file the articles of incorportation of the
successor nonprofit corporation and file all paperwork necessary to qualify the
corporation to be exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal
revenue code. The Arizona industries for the blind shall delegate to the
successor nonprofit corporation the authority to pursue and procure outside
resources as necessary for the sucessor nonprofit corporation to be a private
nonprofit corporation that operates independently of the department of economic
security.
C.The successor nonprofit corporation may use the
name "Arizona industries for the blind" in or as its name.
D.On or before
June 30, 2017, the successor nonprofit corporation shall provide to the
department of economic security evidence that any person to whom Arizona
industries for the blind owes an obligation under contract at the time of the
transfer of authority agrees to the assumption of liabilities by the successor
nonprofit corporation and to seek redress for any damages arising out of the
contracting situation, no matter the legal bases for the claims, from the
successor nonprofit corporation and not from Arizona industries for the blind
or this state.
E.If the
successor nonprofit corporation meets the requirements of subsection D of this
section, effective July 1, 2017, the department of economic security shall
convey to the successor nonprofit corporation all the assets and
liabilities of the Arizona industries for the blind to the same extent as
though incurred originally by the successor nonprofit corporation, including
operation as an affiliate of national industries for the blind and operation
under the abilityone program, except as provided in subsection F of this
section.
F.The department of economic security shall retain
ownership of the real property located at 3013 West Lincoln Street Phoenix,
Arizona 85009 and shall lease the facilities to the successor nonprofit
corporation on the negotiated terms and conditions. The successor nonprofit
corporation is not an agency of this state or a public entity of this state.
G.This state may not act or fail to act, during the
transition period, in a manner that would or may have any adverse material
impact or effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the program
operated within the department of economic security as the Arizona industries
for the blind. This state delegates all authority necessary to complete the
transition of the Arizona industries for the blind program to the successor
nonprofit corporation.
Sec.7.Industries for the blind fund; transfer of monies
All unexpended and unencumbered monies remaining in the
industries for the blind fund established by section 411975, Arizona
Revised Statutes, as repealed by this act, are transferred to the successor
nonprofit corporation on the effective date of this act.
Sec.8.Effective date
This act is effective from and after June 30, 2017.

