







REFERENCE TITLE: distributed energy generation systems







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1417









Introduced by
Senators
  Lesko, Allen S, Bradley, Griffin, Kavanagh; Representatives Allen J, Barton,
  Cardenas, Leach, Pratt: Senators Biggs, Burges, Contreras, Dial, Donahue,
  Hobbs, Meza, Miranda, Pancrazi, Shooter; Representatives Carter, Fernandez,
  Gowan, Larkin, Livingston, Mitchell, Montenegro, Plumlee, Rios, Saldate,
  Shope, Wheeler





AN ACT

amending sections
32-1154, 32-1155, 44-1761, 44-1762 and 44-1763, Arizona Revised Statutes;
amending title 44, chapter 11, article 11, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding
section 44-1764; relating to solar energy devices.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1154, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1154.Grounds for suspension or revocation of license; continuing
jurisdiction; civil penalty; recovery fund award; summary suspension
A.The holder of a license or any person listed on a
license pursuant to this chapter shall not commit any of the following acts or
omissions:
1.Abandonment of a contract or refusal to perform
after submitting a bid on work without legal excuse for the abandonment or
refusal.
2.Departure from or disregard of plans or
specifications or any building codes of the state or any political subdivision
of the state in any material respect that is prejudicial to another without
consent of the owner or the owner's duly authorized representative and without
the consent of the person entitled to have the particular construction project
or operation completed in accordance with such plans and specifications and
code.
3.Violation of any rule adopted by the registrar.
4.Failure to comply with the statutes or rules
governing social security, workers' compensation or unemployment insurance.
5.Misrepresentation of a material fact by the applicant
in obtaining a license.
6.The doing of a fraudulent act by the licensee as
a contractor resulting in another person being substantially injured.
7.Conviction of a felony.
8.Failure in a material respect by the licensee to
complete a construction project or operation for the price stated in the
contract, or in any modification of the contract.
9.Aiding or abetting a licensed or unlicensed
person to evade this chapter, knowingly or recklessly combining or conspiring
with a licensed or unlicensed person, allowing one's license to be used by a
licensed or unlicensed person or acting as agent, partner, associate or
otherwise of a licensed or unlicensed person with intent to evade this chapter.
10.Failure by a licensee or agent or official of a
licensee to pay monies in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars when due for
materials or services rendered in connection with the licensee's operations as
a contractor when the licensee has the capacity to pay or, if the licensee
lacks the capacity to pay, when the licensee has received sufficient monies as
payment for the particular construction work project or operation for which the
services or materials were rendered or purchased.
11.Failure of a contractor to comply with any
safety or labor laws or codes of the federal government, state or political
subdivisions of the state.
12.Failure in any material respect to comply with
this chapter.
13.Knowingly entering into a contract with a
contractor for work to be performed for which a license is required with a
person not duly licensed in the required classification.
14.Acting in the capacity of a contractor under any
license issued under this chapter in a name other than as set forth on the
license.
15.False, misleading or deceptive advertising whereby
any member of the public may be misled and injured.
16.Knowingly contracting beyond the scope of the
license or licenses of the licensee.
17.Contracting or offering to contract or
submitting a bid while the license is under suspension or while the license is
on inactive status.
18.Failure to notify the registrar in writing
within a period of fifteen days of any disassociation of the person who
qualified for the license.Such licensee shall have sixty days from
the date of such disassociation to qualify through another person.
19.Subsequent discovery of facts that if known at
the time of issuance of a license or the renewal of a license would have been
grounds to deny the issuance or renewal of a license.
20.Having a person named on the license who is or
was named on any other license in this state or in another state that is under
suspension or revocation for any act or omission that occurs while the person
is or was named on the license unless the prior revocation was based solely on
a violation of this paragraph.
21.Continuing a new single family residential
construction project with actual knowledge that a pretreatment wooddestroying
pests or organisms application was either:
(a)Not performed at the required location.
(b)Performed in a manner inconsistent with label
requirements, state law or rules.
22.Failure to take appropriate corrective action to
comply with this chapter or with rules adopted pursuant to this chapter without
valid justification within a reasonable period of time after receiving a
written directive from the registrar. The written directive shall set forth
the time within which the contractor is to complete the remedial action. The
time permitted for compliance shall not be less than fifteen days from the date
of issuance of the directive. A license shall not be revoked or suspended nor
shall any other penalty be imposed for a violation of this paragraph until
after a hearing has been held.
23.Prohibit, threaten to prohibit, retaliate,
threaten to retaliate or otherwise intimidate any contractor or materialman
from serving a preliminary notice pursuant to section 33992.01.
24.For
solar contractors as defined in section 32-1170, failure to comply with title
44, chapter 11, article 11.
B.The registrar may on the registrar's own motion,
and shall on the written complaint of any owner or contractor that is a party
to a construction contract or a person who suffers a material loss or injury as
a result of a contractor's failure to perform work in a professional and
workmanlike manner or in accordance with any applicable building codes and
professional industry standards, investigate the acts of any contractor within
this state and may temporarily suspend, with or without imposition of specific
conditions in addition to increased surety bond or cash deposit requirements,
or permanently revoke any or all licenses issued under this chapter if the
holder of the license issued pursuant to this chapter is guilty of or commits
any of the acts or omissions set forth in subsection A of this section. For
the purposes of this subsection:
1."Construction contract" means a written
or oral agreement relating to the construction, alteration, repair,
maintenance, moving or demolition of any building, structure or improvement or
relating to the contractor's excavation of or other development or improvement
to land if the registrar investigates the contractor's actions under this
subsection.
2."Owner" means any person, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or other organization, or a combination
of any of them, that causes a building, structure or improvement to be
constructed, altered, repaired, maintained, moved or demolished or that causes
land to be excavated or otherwise developed or improved, whether the interest
or estate of the person is in fee, as vendee under a contract to purchase, as
lessee or another interest or estate less than fee, pursuant to a construction
contract.
C.Pursuant to this chapter, the registrar shall
temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license issued to a person under
this chapter upon on notice from the department
of revenue that a tax debt related to income taxes, withholding taxes or any
tax imposed or administered by title 42, chapter 5 that was incurred in the
operation of the licensed business has become final and the person neglects to
pay or refuses to pay the tax debt.
D.The expiration, cancellation, suspension or
revocation of a license by operation of law or by decision and order of the
registrar or a court of law or the voluntary surrender of a license by a
licensee shall not deprive the registrar of jurisdiction to proceed with any
investigation of or action or disciplinary proceeding against such licensee, or
to render a decision suspending or revoking such a license, or denying the
renewal or right of renewal of such license.
E.The registrar may impose a civil penalty of not
to exceed five hundred dollars on a contractor for each violation of subsection
A, paragraph 22 of this section. Civil penalties collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited in the residential contractors' recovery
fund.The failure by the licensee to pay any civil penalty imposed
under this subsection results in the automatic revocation of the license thirty
days after the effective date of the order providing for the civil
penalty.No future license may be issued to an entity consisting of
a person, as defined in section 321101, subsection A, paragraph 6, who is associated
with the contractor, unless payment of any outstanding civil penalty is
tendered.
F.The registrar shall impose a civil penalty of not
to exceed one thousand dollars on a contractor for each violation of subsection
A, paragraph 17 of this section. Civil penalties collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited in the residential contractors' recovery fund.
The failure by the licensee to pay any civil penalty imposed under this
subsection results in the automatic permanent revocation of the license thirty
days after the effective date of the order providing for the civil
penalty.No future license may be issued to an entity consisting of
a person, as defined in section 321101, subsection A, paragraph 6, who is associated
with the contractor, unless payment of any outstanding civil penalty is
tendered.
G.Notwithstanding any other provisions in this
chapter, if a contractor's license has been revoked or has been suspended as a
result of an order to remedy a violation of this chapter, the registrar may
order payment from the residential contractors' recovery fund to remedy the
violation. The registrar shall serve the contractor with a notice setting
forth the amount claimed or to be awarded. If the contractor contests the
amount or propriety of the payment, the contractor shall respond within ten
days of the date of service by requesting a hearing to determine the amount or
propriety of the payment. Failure by the contractor to respond in writing
within ten days of the date of service shall be deemed a waiver by the
contractor of the right to contest the amount claimed or to be awarded.
Service may be made by personal service to the contractor or by mailing a copy
of the notice by registered mail with postage prepaid to the contractor's
latest address of record on file in the registrar's office. If service is made
by registered mail, it is effective five days after the notice is
mailed.Except as provided in section 411092.08, subsection
H, the contractor or injured person may seek judicial review of the registrar's
final award pursuant to title 12, chapter 7, article 6. An applicant to the
residential contractors' recovery fund pursuant to this subsection must show
that the applicant has proceeded against any existing bond covering the
residential contractor and has not collected on the bond in an amount of thirty
thousand dollars or more. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1155, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1155.Filing of complaint; resolution of complaint; service of
notice; failure to answer; prohibited citations
A.On the filing of a written complaint with the
registrar charging a licensee with the commission, within two years before the
date of filing the complaint, of an act that is cause for suspension or
revocation of a license, or, for solar
contractors as defined in section 32-1170, an act that is in violation of title
44, chapter 11, article 11, including the marketing or sale of a distributed
energy generation system as defined in section 44-1761, the
registrar after investigation, in its sole discretion, may issue a citation
directing the licensee, within ten days after service of the citation on the
licensee, to appear by filing with the registrar the licensee's written answer
to the citation and complaint showing cause, if any, why the licensee's license
should not be suspended or revoked.Service of citation on the
licensee shall be fully effected by personal service or by mailing a true copy
thereof, together with a true copy of the complaint, by registered mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid and addressed to the licensee at the
licensee's latest address of record in the registrar's office. Service of the
citation and complaint shall be complete at the time of personal service or
five days after deposit in the mail.The twoyear period
prescribed by this subsection shall commence on the earlier of the close of
escrow or actual occupancy for new home or other new building construction and
otherwise shall commence on completion of the specific project.
B.Failure of the licensee to answer within ten days
after service shall be deemed an admission by the licensee of the licensee's
commission of the act or acts charged in the complaint, and the registrar may
then suspend or revoke the licensee's license.
C.The registrar shall not issue a citation for
failure to perform work in a professional and workmanlike manner or in
accordance with any applicable building codes and professional industry
standards if either:
1.The contractor is not provided an opportunity to
inspect the work within fifteen days after receiving a written notice from the
registrar.
2.The contractor's work has been subject to
neglect, modification or abnormal use.
D.Notwithstanding subsection C of this section, the
registrar may investigate the complaint without waiting fifteen days. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 44-1761, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1761.Definitions
In this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Collector" means a component of a
solar energy device that is used to absorb solar radiation, convert it to heat
or electricity and transfer the heat to a heat transfer fluid or to storage.
2."Distributed energy generation system":
(a)Means a device or system that is used to
generate or store electricity, that has a an electric delivery capacity,
singly or in connection with other similar devices or systems, greater than one
kilowatt or one kilowatt-hour, and that
is primarily for on-site energy consumption.
(b)Does not include an electric generator that is
intended for occasional use.
3."Energize"
or "energized" means that the distributed energy generation system is
installed and operational for its intended purposes of generating or storing
electricity.
3.4."Heat
exchanger" means a component of a solar energy device that is used to
transfer heat from one fluid to another.
5."Interconnected"
or "interconnection" means a distributed energy generation system
that is connected to the power grid and that is able to transfer electricity to
the power grid.
4.6."Seller
or marketer" means an individual or a company acting through its officers,
employees or agents that markets, sells or solicits the sale, financing or
lease of distributed energy generation systems or negotiates or enters into
agreements for the sale, financing or lease of distributed energy generation
systems.
5.7."Solar
daylighting" means a device that is specifically designed to capture and
redirect the visible portion of the solar beam spectrum, while controlling the
infrared portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of
artificial lighting.
6.8."Solar
energy device":
(a)Means a system or
series of mechanisms that is designed primarily to provide heating, to provide
cooling, to produce electrical power, to produce mechanical power, to provide
solar daylighting or to provide any combination of the foregoing by means of
collecting and transferring solar generated energy into such uses either by
active or passive means.Such systems may also have the capability
of storing such energy for future utilization.Passive systems shall
clearly be designed as a solar energy device such as a trombe wall and not
merely a part of a normal structure such as a window.
(b)Includes a distributed energy
generation system.
7."Storage
unit" means a component of a solar energy device that is used to store solar
generated electricity or heat for later use. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 44-1762, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1762.Solar energy device warranties; installation standards;
inspections
A.The collectors, heat exchangers and storage units
of a solar energy device that is sold or
installed in this state
leased or financed under an agreement pursuant to section 44-1763,
and the installation of the solar
energy device, shall be warranted for a period of at least two years or the duration of the lease or finance agreement,
whichever is longer.The remaining components of the
solar energy device and their installation shall be warranted for a period of
at least one year ten years.
B.Any person who manufactures, furnishes for
installation or installs a solar energy device shall provide with such the device a written statement of warranty,
responsibilities assumed or disclaimed and performance data of the solar energy
device and components of the solar energy device as prescribed by section 44-1763 as part of the agreement
for the financing, sale or lease of a solar energy device.The
form of the statement required by this subsection is subject to approval by the
registrar of contractors after
consultation with the governor's energy office.The
registrar of contractors shall adopt rules governing the readability and
understandability of the statement.The statement shall specify the
source of any performance data it contains.A copy of the statement
shall be delivered to the registrar of contractors where it shall be kept on
public file.
C.A person who sells or markets for sale or lease a solar energy
device in this state shall furnish a certificate to the buyer that the solar
energy device complies with the requirements of this section and section 441763. The marketer, installer or representative of either the
marketer or installer of a distributed energy generation system must be present
when the distributed energy generation system is energized and interconnected
to the power grid.
D.A solar energy device that is sold or installed
in this state shall comply with any consumer protection, rating, certification,
performance, marking, installation and safety standards that have been adopted
by the governor's energy office registrar of contractors and that are
required by section 44-1763.
E.An individual who installs a solar energy device
in this state, in addition to being a licensed solar contractor under title 32,
chapter 10, article 4, shall:
1.Possess the general license that is appropriate
to the type of solar energy device that is installed.Installers of
a solar water heater or a photovoltaic device shall possess an appropriate
contractor's license.
2.Meet any education and training standards that
have been adopted by the registrar of contractors after consultation with the governor's energy office.
3.Pass an examination on the installation of the
type of device to be installed, if the registrar of contractors after consultation with the governor's energy office
has adopted such an examination.
F.Solar energy devices that are designed or
installed by the final owner are exempt from the requirements of subsections A
through E of this section.
G.The installation of a solar energy device shall
meet the requirements of:
1.All applicable fire, safety and building codes.
2.Consumer protection standards, including freeze
protection and temperature related damage standards adopted by the governor's energy office registrar of contractors.
3.All other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
H.Solar energy devices and the agreements of licensed sellers and marketers for the
sale, financing or lease of a solar energy device are subject to
random inspections by the registrar of contractors.Sellers, marketers and installers who fail to
meet safety, installation or other prescribed standards or the requirements of section 44-1763 are
subject to disciplinary action under title 32, chapter 10, article 3. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
44-1763, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1763.Distributed energy generation system agreements;
disclosures; exception
A.An agreement governing the financing, sale or
lease of a distributed energy generation system to any person or a political
subdivision of this state must:
1.Be signed by the person buying, financing or leasing
the distributed energy generation system and must be dated. Any agreement that
contains blank spaces affecting the timing, value or obligations of the
agreement in a material manner when signed by the buyer or lessee is voidable
at the option of the buyer or lessee until the distributed energy generation
system is installed.
2.Be in at least ten-point type.
3.Include a provision granting the buyer or lessee
the right to rescind the financing, sale or lease agreement for a period of not
less than three business days after the agreement is signed by the buyer or
lessee and before the distributed energy generation system is installed.
4.Provide a description, including the make and
model of the distributed energy generation system's major components or a
guarantee concerning energy production output that the distributed energy
generation system being sold or leased will provide over the life of the
agreement.
5.Separately set forth the following items, if
applicable:
(a)The total purchase price or total cost to the
buyer or lessee under the agreement for the distributed energy generation
system over the life of the agreement.
(b)Any interest, installation fees, document
preparation fees, service fees or other costs to be paid by the buyer or lessee
of the distributed energy generation system.
(c)If the distributed energy generation system is
being financed or leased, the total number of payments, the payment frequency,
the amount of the payment expressed in dollars and the payment due date.
6.Provide a disclosure in the sale and financing
agreements, to the extent they are used by the seller or marketer in
determining the purchase price of the agreement, identify that identifies all current tax incentives and rebates or
other state or federal incentives for which the buyer or lessee may be eligible and any conditions
or requirements pursuant to the agreement to obtain these tax incentives,
rebates or other incentives.
7.Identify the tax obligations that the buyer or
lessee may be required to pay as a result of buying, financing or leasing the
distributed energy generation system, including:
(a)The assessed value and the property tax
assessments associated with the distributed energy generation system calculated
in the year the agreement is signed.
(b)Transaction privilege taxes that may be assessed
against the person buying or leasing the distributed energy generation system.
(c)Any obligation of the buyer or lessee to
transfer tax credits or tax incentives of the distributed energy generation
system to any other person.
8.Disclose whether the warranty or maintenance
obligations related to the distributed energy generation system may be sold or
transferred to a third party.
9.Include a disclosure, the receipt of which shall
be separately acknowledged by the buyer or lessee, if a transfer of the sale,
lease or financing agreement contains any restrictions pursuant to the
agreement on the lessee's or buyer's ability to modify or transfer ownership of
a distributed energy generation system, including whether any modification or
transfer is subject to review or approval by a third party.If the
modification or transfer of the distributed energy generation system is subject
to review or approval by a third party, the agreement must identify the name,
address and telephone number of, and provide for updating any change in, the
entity responsible for approving the modification or transfer.
10.Include a disclosure, the receipt of which shall
be separately acknowledged by the buyer or lessee, if a modification or
transfer of ownership of the real property to which the distributed energy
generation system is or will be affixed contains any restrictions pursuant to
the agreement on the lessee's or buyer's ability to modify or transfer ownership
of the real property to which the distributed energy generation system is
installed or affixed, including whether any modification or transfer is subject
to review or approval by a third party.If the modification or
transfer of the real property to which the distributed energy generation system
is affixed or installed is subject to review or approval by a third party, the
agreement must identify the name, address and telephone number of, and provide for updating any change in,
the entity responsible for approving the modification or transfer.
11.Provide a full and accurate summary of the total
costs under the agreement for maintaining and operating the distributed energy
generation system over the life of the distributed energy generation system,
including financing, maintenance and construction costs related to the
distributed energy generation system.
12.If the agreement contains an estimate of the
buyer's or lessee's future utility charges based on projected utility rates after the installation of a distributed energy
generation system, provide an estimate of the buyer's or lessee's
estimated future utility charges during the same period as impacted by potential
utility rate changes ranging from at least a five percent annual decrease to at
least a five percent annual increase from current utility costs applied to the duration of the agreement.The Any comparative estimates must be calculated based on the same utility rates by applying the entire rate change range to
the duration of the agreement.
13.Include a
disclosure, the receipt of which shall be separately acknowledged by the buyer
or lessee, that states:
Utility rates and utility rate
structures are subject to change. These changes cannot be accurately
predicted. Projected savings from your distributed energy generation system
are therefore subject to change.Tax incentives are subject to
change or termination by executive, legislative or regulatory action.
14.Comply
with section 32-1158.
B.If a
document or sales presentation relating to a distributed energy generation
system states or suggests that the distributed energy generation system will
result in financial savings for a buyer or lessee, the document or sales
presentation must substantiate the methodology used to calculate those savings
and reasonably quantify the cumulative savings expected for the duration of the
agreement.
C.If a
document or sales presentation relating to a distributed energy generation
system contains financial savings comparative estimates or utility rate comparative
estimates, the document and sales presentation must include historical utility
rates for the immediately preceding period of time that is of the same duration
as the proposed financing or lease period for the same class of utility
customer in the same utility service territory as the prospective buyer or
lessee. These historical rates must be included in any comparative estimates.
D.The
marketer or seller of a distributed energy generation system shall ensure that
an engineer or other person who is knowledgeable about the installation,
energizing and interconnection of the distributed energy generation system is
present when the distributed energy generation system is installed, energized
and interconnected to the power grid.
B.E.Before
the maintenance or warranty obligations of a distributed energy generation
system under an existing lease, financing or purchase agreement is transferred,
the person who is currently obligated to maintain or warrant the distributed
energy generation system must disclose the name, address and telephone number
of the person who will be assuming the maintenance or warranty of the
distributed energy generation system.
C.F.If the seller's or marketer's marketing materials
a document or sales presentation
relating to a distributed energy generation system contain contains
an estimate of the buyer's or lessee's future utility charges based on
projected utility rates after the
installation of a distributed energy generation system, the marketing materials document and sales presentation must
contain an estimate of the buyer's or lessee's estimated future utility charges during the same period as impacted by potential
utility rate changes ranging from at least a five percent annual decrease to at
least a five percent annual increase from current utility costs applied to the duration of an agreement for the financing,
sale or lease of a distributed energy generation system. Any comparative
estimates must be calculated by applying the entire rate change range to the
duration of the agreement.
G.Lease
payments under a distributed energy generation system lease may not begin until
the distributed energy generation system is energized and interconnected.
D.H.This
section does not apply to an individual or company, acting through its
officers, employees or agents, that markets, sells, solicits, negotiates or
enters into an agreement for the sale, financing or lease of a distributed
energy generation system as part of a transaction involving the sale or
transfer of the real property to which the distributed energy generation system
is or will be affixed. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Title 44, chapter 11, article 11,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 44-1764, to read:
START_STATUTE44-1764.Distributed energy generation system; interconnection
Any person who seeks to
install, energize or interconnect a distributed energy generation system must
first submit an application for interconnection to the power grid to the
utility that owns or operates the power grid.The utility must
approve the application before the installation, energizing or interconnection
of the distributed energy generation system. The application must disclose the
current owner of the distributed energy generation system and the owner of the
distributed energy generation system at the time the system will be
energized.The applicant must follow the utility's effective
interconnection requirements before interconnecting the distributed energy
generation system. The utility that owns or operates the power grid to which
the distributed energy generation system is interconnected must receive notice
of any changes in ownership of the distributed energy generation system. END_STATUTE

