







REFERENCE TITLE: pharmacy board; manufacturers; dietary
  supplements







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1460









Introduced by
Senators
  Worsley: Farnsworth D





AN ACT

Amending sections
321901 and 321904, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the
Arizona state board of pharmacy.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 32-1901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Administer" means the direct
application of a controlled substance, prescriptiononly drug, dangerous
drug or narcotic drug, whether by injection, inhalation, ingestion or any other
means, to the body of a patient or research subject by a practitioner or by the
practitioner's authorized agent or the patient or research subject at the
direction of the practitioner.
2."Advertisement" means all
representations disseminated in any manner or by any means, other than by
labeling, for the purpose of inducing, or that are likely to induce, directly
or indirectly, the purchase of drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances.
3."Advisory letter" means a
nondisciplinary letter to notify a licensee or permittee that either:
(a)While there is insufficient evidence to support
disciplinary action, the board believes that continuation of the activities
that led to the investigation may result in further board action against the
licensee or permittee.
(b)The violation is a minor or technical violation
that is not of sufficient merit to warrant disciplinary action.
(c)While the licensee or permittee has demonstrated
substantial compliance through rehabilitation, remediation or reeducation that
has mitigated the need for disciplinary action, the board believes that
repetition of the activities that led to the investigation may result in
further board action against the licensee or permittee.
4."Antiseptic", if a drug is represented
as such on its label, means a representation that it is a germicide, except in
the case of a drug purporting to be, or represented as, an antiseptic for
inhibitory use as a wet dressing, ointment or dusting powder or other use that
involves prolonged contact with the body.
5."Authorized officers of the law" means
legally empowered peace officers, compliance officers of the state board of pharmacy and agents of the
division of narcotics enforcement and criminal intelligence of the department
of public safety.
6."Board" or "board of
pharmacy" means the Arizona state board of pharmacy.
7."Certificate
of composition" means a list of a product's ingredients.
8."Certificate
of free sale" means a document that authenticates a product that is
generally and freely sold in domestic or international channels of trade.
7.9."Color
additive" means a material that either:
(a)Is any dye,
pigment or other substance made by a process of synthesis or similar artifice,
or extracted, isolated or otherwise derived, with or without intermediate or
final change of identity, from any vegetable, animal, mineral or other source.
(b)If added or applied to a drug, or to the human
body or any part of the human body, is capable of imparting color, except that
color additive does not include any material that has been or may be exempted
under the federal act.Color includes black, white and intermediate
grays.
8.10."Compounding"
means the preparation, mixing, assembling, packaging or labeling of a drug by a
pharmacist or an intern or pharmacy technician under the pharmacist's
supervision, for the purpose of dispensing to a patient based on a valid
prescription order. Compounding includes the preparation of drugs in
anticipation of prescription orders prepared on routine, regularly observed
prescribing patterns and the preparation of drugs as an incident to research,
teaching or chemical analysis or for administration by a medical practitioner
to the medical practitioner's patient and not for sale or dispensing.
Compounding does not include the preparation of commercially available products
from bulk compounds or the preparation of drugs for sale to pharmacies,
practitioners or entities for the purpose of dispensing or distribution.
9.11."Compressed
medical gas distributor" means a person who holds a current permit issued
by the board to distribute compressed medical gases pursuant to a compressed
medical gas order to compressed medical gas suppliers and other entities that
are registered, licensed or permitted to use, administer or distribute
compressed medical gases.
10.12."Compressed
medical gas order" means an order for compressed medical gases that is
issued by a medical practitioner.
11.13."Compressed
medical gas supplier" means a person who holds a current permit issued by
the board to supply compressed medical gases pursuant to a compressed medical
gas order and only to the consumer or the patient.
12.14."Compressed
medical gases" means gases and liquid oxygen that a compressed medical gas
distributor or manufacturer has labeled in compliance with federal law.
13.15."Controlled
substance" means a drug, substance or immediate precursor that is identified, defined or listed in title
36, chapter 27, article 2.
14.16."Corrosive"
means any substance that when it comes in contact with living tissue will cause
destruction of tissue by chemical action.
15.17."Counterfeit
drug" means a drug that, or the container or labeling of which, without
authorization, bears the trademark, trade name or other identifying mark,
imprint, number or device, or any likeness of these, of a manufacturer,
distributor or dispenser other than the person who in fact manufactured,
distributed or dispensed that drug.
16.18."Dangerous
drug" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
17.19."Decree
of censure" means an official action that is taken by the board and that
may include a requirement for restitution of fees to a patient or consumer.
18.20."Deliver"
or "delivery" means the actual, constructive or attempted transfer
from one person to another whether or not there is an agency relationship.
19.21."Deputy
director" means a pharmacist who is employed by the board and selected by
the executive director to perform duties as prescribed by the executive
director.
20.22."Device",
except as used in paragraph 15
17 of this section,
section 321965, paragraph 4 and section 321967, subsection A,
paragraph 15 and subsection C, means instruments, apparatus and contrivances,
including their components, parts and accessories, including all such items
under the federal act, intended either:
(a)For use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other animals.
(b)To affect the structure or any function of the
human body or other animals.
21.23."Direct
supervision of a pharmacist" means the pharmacist is
present.If relating to the sale of certain items, direct
supervision of a pharmacist means that a pharmacist determines the legitimacy
or advisability of a proposed purchase of those items.
22.24."Director"
means the director of the division of narcotics enforcement and criminal
investigation of the department of public safety.
23.25."Dispense"
means to deliver to an ultimate user or research subject by or pursuant to the
lawful order of a practitioner, including the prescribing, administering,
packaging, labeling or compounding necessary to prepare for that delivery.
24.26."Dispenser"
means a practitioner who dispenses.
25.27."Distribute"
means to deliver, other than by administering or dispensing.
26.28."Distributor"
means a person who distributes.
27.29."Drug"
means:
(a)Articles recognized, or for which standards or
specifications are prescribed, in the official compendium.
(b)Articles intended for use in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in the human body or other
animals.
(c)Articles other than food intended to affect the
structure or any function of the human body or other animals.
(d)Articles intended for use as a component of any
articles specified in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph but does
not include devices or their components, parts or accessories.
28.30."Drug
enforcement administration" means the drug enforcement administration of
the United States department of justice or its successor agency.
29.31."Drug
or device manufacturing" means the production, preparation, propagation or
processing of a drug or device, either directly or indirectly, by extraction
from substances of natural origin or independently by means of chemical
synthesis and includes any packaging or repackaging of substances or labeling
or relabeling of its container and the promotion and marketing of the
same.Drug or device manufacturing does not include compounding.
30.32."Economic
poison" means any substance that alone, in chemical combination or in
formulation with one or more other substances is a pesticide within the meaning
of the laws of this state or the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide
act and that is used in the production, storage or transportation of raw
agricultural commodities.
31.33."Established
name", with respect to a drug or ingredient of a drug, means any of the
following:
(a)The applicable official name.
(b)If there is no such name and the drug or
ingredient is an article recognized in an official compendium, the official
title in an official compendium.
(c)If neither subdivision (a) nor (b) of this
paragraph applies, the common or usual name of such drug.
32.34."Executive
director" means the executive director of the board of pharmacy.
33.35."Federal
act" means the federal laws and regulations that pertain to drugs,
devices, poisons and hazardous substances and that are official at the time any
drug, device, poison or hazardous substance is affected by this chapter.
34.36."Full
service wholesale permittee" means a permittee who may distribute
prescriptiononly drugs and devices, controlled substances and overthecounter
drugs and devices to pharmacies or other legal outlets from a place devoted in
whole or in part to wholesaling these items.
37."Good
manufacturing practice" means a system for ensuring that
products are consistently produced and controlled according to quality
standards and covering all aspects of design, monitoring and control of
manufacturing processes and facilities to ensure that products do not pose any
risk to the consumer or public.
35.38."Graduate
intern" means a person who has graduated from a college, school or program
of pharmacy approved by the board and who meets the qualifications and
experience for a pharmacy intern as provided in section 321923.
36.39."Highly
toxic" means any substance that falls within any of the following
categories:
(a)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, at a single dose of fifty
milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, when orally administered.
(b)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more laboratory white rats each weighing
between two hundred and three hundred grams, if inhaled continuously for a
period of one hour or less at an atmospheric concentration of two hundred parts
per million by volume or less of gas or vapor or two milligrams per liter by
volume or less of mist or dust, provided the concentration is likely to be
encountered by humans if the substance is used in any reasonably foreseeable
manner.
(c)Produces death within fourteen days in half or
more than half of a group of ten or more rabbits tested in a dosage of two
hundred milligrams or less per kilogram of body weight, if administered by
continuous contact with the bare skin for twentyfour hours or less.
If the board finds that available data on human experience with
any substance indicate results different from those obtained on animals in the
dosages or concentrations prescribed in this paragraph, the human data shall
take precedence.
37.40."Hospital"
means any institution for the care and treatment of the sick and injured that
is approved and licensed as a hospital by the department of health services.
38.41."Intern"
means a pharmacy intern and a graduate intern.
39.42."Internship"
means the practical, experiential, handson training of a pharmacy intern
under the supervision of a preceptor.
40.43."Irritant"
means any substance, other than a corrosive, that on immediate, prolonged or
repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce a local inflammatory
reaction.
41.44."Jurisprudence
examination" means a board approved
boardapproved pharmacy
law examination that is written and administered in cooperation with the
national association of boards of pharmacy or another board approved boardapproved pharmacy law examination.
42.45."Label"
means a display of written, printed or graphic matter on the immediate
container of any article that, unless easily legible through the outside
wrapper or container, also appears on the outside wrapper or container of the
article's retail package.For the purposes of this paragraph, the
immediate container does not include package liners.
43.46."Labeling"
means all labels and other written, printed or graphic matter either:
(a)On any article or any of its containers or
wrappers.
(b)Accompanying that article.
44.47."Letter
of reprimand" means a disciplinary letter that is a public document issued
by the board and that informs a licensee or permittee that the licensee's or
permittee's conduct violates state or federal law and may require the board to
monitor the licensee or permittee.
45.48."Limited service
pharmacy" means a pharmacy that is approved by the board to practice a
limited segment of pharmacy as indicated by the permit issued by the board.
46.49."Manufacture"
or "manufacturer" means every person who prepares, derives, produces,
compounds, processes, packages or repackages or labels any drug in a place,
other than a pharmacy, devoted to manufacturing the drug.
47.50."Marijuana"
has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
48.51."Medical
practitioner" means any medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, dentist,
podiatrist, veterinarian or other person who is licensed and authorized by law to use and prescribe
drugs and devices for the treatment of sick and injured human beings or animals
or for the diagnosis or prevention of sickness in human beings or animals in
this state or any state, territory or district of the United States.
49.52."Medication
order" means a written or verbal order from a medical practitioner or that
person's authorized agent to administer a drug or device.
50.53."Narcotic
drug" has the same meaning prescribed in section 133401.
51.54."New
drug" means either:
(a)Any drug the composition of which is such that
the drug is not generally recognized among experts qualified by scientific
training and experience to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of drugs as
safe and effective for use under the conditions prescribed, recommended or
suggested in the labeling.
(b)Any drug the composition of which is such that
the drug, as a result of investigations to determine its safety and
effectiveness for use under such conditions, has become so recognized, but that
has not, other than in the investigations, been used to a material extent or
for a material time under those conditions.
52.55."Nonprescription
drug" or "overthecounter drug" means any nonnarcotic
medicine or drug that may be sold without a prescription and is prepackaged and
labeled for use by the consumer in accordance with the requirements of the laws
of this state and federal law.Nonprescription drug does not
include:
(a)A drug that is primarily advertised and promoted
professionally to medical practitioners and pharmacists by manufacturers or
primary distributors.
(b)A controlled substance.
(c)A drug that is required to bear a label that
states "Rx only"."
(d)A drug that
is intended for human use by hypodermic injection.
53.56."Nonprescription
drug wholesale permittee" means a permittee who may distribute only overthecounter
drugs and devices to pharmacies or other lawful outlets from a place devoted in
whole or in part to wholesaling these items.
54.57."Notice"
means personal service or the mailing of a copy of the notice by certified mail
addressed either to the person at the person's latest address of record in the
board office or to the person's attorney.
55.58."Official
compendium" means the latest revision of the United States pharmacopeia
and the national formulary or any current supplement.
56.59."Other
jurisdiction" means one of the other fortynine states, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a territory of the United
States of America.
57.60."Package"
means a receptacle defined or described in the United States pharmacopeia and
the national formulary as adopted by the board.
58.61."Packaging"
means the act or process of placing a drug item or device in a container for
the purpose or intent of dispensing or distributing the item or device to
another.
59.62."Person"
means an individual, partnership, corporation and association, and their duly
authorized agents.
60.63."Pharmaceutical
care" means the provision of drug therapy and other pharmaceutical patient
care services.
61.64."Pharmacist"
means an individual who is currently
licensed by the board to practice the profession of pharmacy in this state.
62.65."Pharmacist
in charge" means the pharmacist who is responsible to the board for a
licensed establishment's compliance with the laws and administrative rules of
this state and of the federal government pertaining to the practice of
pharmacy, the manufacturing of drugs and the distribution of drugs and devices.
63.66."Pharmacist
licensure examination" means a board
approved boardapproved
examination that is written and administered in cooperation with
the national association of boards of pharmacy or any other board approved boardapproved pharmacist licensure
examination.
64.67."Pharmacy"
means any place:
(a)Where drugs, devices, poisons or related
hazardous substances are offered for sale at retail.
(b)In which the profession of pharmacy is practiced
or where prescription orders are compounded and dispensed.
(c)That has displayed on it or in it the words
"pharmacist," "pharmaceutical chemist,"
"apothecary," "druggist," "pharmacy,"
"drugstore," "drugs" or "drug sundries" or any of
these words or combinations of these words, or words of similar import either
in English or any other language, or that is advertised by any sign containing
any of these words.
(d)Where the characteristic symbols of pharmacy or
the characteristic prescription sign "Rx" is exhibited.
(e)Or a portion of any building or structure that
is leased, used or controlled by the permittee to conduct the business
authorized by the board at the address for which the permit was issued and that
is enclosed and secured when a pharmacist is not in attendance.
65.68."Pharmacy
intern" means a person who has all of the qualifications and experience
prescribed in section 321923.
66.69."Pharmacy
technician" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
67.70."Pharmacy
technician trainee" means a person who is licensed pursuant to this
chapter.
68.71."Poison"
or "hazardous substance" includes, but is not limited to, any of the
following if intended and suitable for household use or use by children:
(a)Any substance that, according to standard works
on medicine, pharmacology, pharmacognosy or toxicology, if applied to,
introduced into or developed within the body in relatively small quantities by
its inherent action uniformly produces serious bodily injury, disease or death.
(b)A toxic substance.
(c)A highly toxic substance.
(d)A corrosive substance.
(e)An irritant.
(f)A strong sensitizer.
(g)A mixture of any of the substances described in
this paragraph, if the substance or mixture of substances may cause substantial
personal injury or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any
customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably
foreseeable ingestion by children.
(h)A substance that is designated by the board to be a poison
or hazardous substance. This subdivision does not apply to radioactive
substances, economic poisons subject to the federal insecticide, fungicide and
rodenticide act or the state pesticide act, foods, drugs and cosmetics subject
to state laws or the federal act or substances intended for use as fuels when
stored in containers and used in the heating, cooking or refrigeration system
of a house. This subdivision applies to any substance or article that is not
itself an economic poison within the meaning of the federal insecticide,
fungicide and rodenticide act or the state pesticide act, but that is a poison
or hazardous substance within the meaning of this paragraph by reason of
bearing or containing an economic poison or hazardous substance.
69.72."Practice
of pharmacy" means furnishing the following health care services as a
medical professional:
(a)Interpreting, evaluating and dispensing
prescription orders in the patient's best interests.
(b)Compounding drugs pursuant to or in anticipation
of a prescription order.
(c)Labeling of drugs and devices in compliance with
state and federal requirements.
(d)Participating in drug selection and drug
utilization reviews, drug administration, drug or drug-related research and
drug therapy monitoring or management.
(e)Providing patient counseling necessary to
provide pharmaceutical care.
(f)Properly and safely storing drugs and devices in
anticipation of dispensing.
(g)Maintaining required records of drugs and
devices.
(h)Offering or performing of acts, services,
operations or transactions necessary in the conduct, operation, management and
control of a pharmacy.
(i)Implementing, monitoring and modifying drug
therapy pursuant to a protocolbased drug therapy agreement with a
provider as outlined in section 321970.
(j)Initiating and administering immunizations or
vaccines pursuant to section 321974.
70.73."Practitioner"
means any physician, dentist, veterinarian, scientific investigator or other
person who is licensed, registered or otherwise permitted to distribute,
dispense, conduct research with respect to or administer a controlled substance
in the course of professional practice or research in this state, or any
pharmacy, hospital or other institution that is licensed, registered or
otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to
or administer a controlled substance in the course of professional practice or
research in this state.
71.74."Preceptor"
means a pharmacist who is serving as the practical instructor of an intern and
complies with section 321923.
72.75."Precursor
chemical" means a substance that is:
(a)The principal compound that is commonly used or
that is produced primarily for use and that is an immediate chemical
intermediary used or likely to be used in the manufacture of a controlled
substance, the control of which is necessary to prevent, curtail or limit
manufacture.
(b)Listed in section 133401, paragraph 26 or
27.
73.76."Prescription"
means either a prescription order or a prescription medication.
74.77."Prescription
medication" means any drug, including label and container according to
context, that is dispensed pursuant to a prescription order.
75.78."Prescriptiononly
device" includes:
(a)Any device that is limited by the federal act to
use under the supervision of a medical practitioner.
(b)Any device required by the federal act to bear
on its label essentially the legend "Rx only".
76.79."Prescriptiononly
drug" does not include a controlled substance but does include:
(a)Any drug that because of its toxicity or other
potentiality for harmful effect, the method of its use, or the collateral
measures necessary to its use is not generally recognized among experts,
qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate its safety and
efficacy, as safe for use except by or under the supervision of a medical
practitioner.
(b)Any drug that is limited by an approved new drug
application under the federal act or section 321962 to use under the
supervision of a medical practitioner.
(c)Every potentially harmful drug, the labeling of
which does not bear or contain full and adequate directions for use by the
consumer.
(d)Any drug, other than a controlled substance,
required by the federal act to bear on its label the legend "Rx
only".
77.80."Prescription
order" means any of the following:
(a)An order to a pharmacist for drugs or devices
issued and signed by a duly licensed medical practitioner in the authorized
course of the practitioner's professional practice.
(b)An order transmitted to a pharmacist through
word of mouth, telephone or other means of communication directed by that
medical practitioner.Prescription orders received by word of mouth,
telephone or other means of communication shall be maintained by the pharmacist
pursuant to section 321964, and the record so made by the pharmacist
constitutes the original prescription order to be dispensed by the
pharmacist.This paragraph does not alter or affect laws of this
state or any federal act requiring a written prescription order.
(c)An order initiated by a pharmacist pursuant to a
protocol-based drug therapy agreement with a provider as outlined in section
32-1970, or immunizations or vaccines administered by a pharmacist pursuant to
section 321974.
78.81."Professionally
incompetent" means:
(a)Incompetence based on a variety of factors, including a lack of
sufficient pharmaceutical knowledge or skills or experience to a degree likely
to endanger the health of patients.
(b)When considered with other indications of
professional incompetence, a pharmacist, pharmacy intern or graduate intern who
fails to obtain a passing score on a board
approved boardapproved
pharmacist licensure examination or a pharmacy technician or
pharmacy technician trainee who fails to obtain a passing score on a board approved boardapproved pharmacy technician
licensure examination.
79.82."Radioactive
substance" means a substance that emits ionizing radiation.
80.83."Safely
engage in employment duties" means that a permittee or the permittee's
employee is able to safely engage in employment duties related to the
manufacture, sale, distribution or dispensing of drugs, devices, poisons,
hazardous substances, controlled substances or precursor chemicals.
81.84."Symbol"
means the characteristic symbols that have historically identified pharmacy,
including "show
globes", and "mortar and pestle," and the sign "Rx".
82.85."Toxic
substance" means a substance, other than a radioactive substance, that has
the capacity to produce injury or illness in humans through ingestion,
inhalation or absorption through any body surface.
83.86."Ultimate
user" means a person who lawfully possesses a drug or controlled substance
for that person's own use, for the use of a member of that person's household
or for administering to an animal owned by that person or by a member of that
person's household. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 32-1904, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-1904.Powers and duties of board; immunity
A.The board shall:
1.Make bylaws and adopt rules that are necessary
for the protection of the public and that pertain to the practice of pharmacy,
the manufacturing, wholesaling or supplying of drugs, devices, poisons or
hazardous substances, the use of pharmacy technicians and support personnel and
the lawful performance of its duties.
2.Fix standards and requirements for the
registration and reregistration of pharmacies, except as otherwise specified.
3.Investigate compliance as to the quality, label
and labeling of all drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances and take
action necessary to prevent the sale of these if they do not conform to the
standards prescribed in this chapter, the official compendium or the federal
act.
4.Enforce its rules. In so doing, the board or its
agents have free access at all reasonable hours to any pharmacy, manufacturer,
wholesaler, nonprescription drug permittee or other establishment in which
drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances are manufactured, processed,
packed or held, or to enter any vehicle being used to transport or hold such
drugs, devices, poisons or hazardous substances for the purpose of:
(a)Inspecting the establishment or vehicle to
determine if any provisions of this chapter or the federal act are being
violated.
(b)Securing samples or specimens of any drug,
device, poison or hazardous substance after paying or offering to pay for such
sample.
(c)Detaining or embargoing a drug, device, poison
or hazardous substance in accordance with section 321994.
5.Examine and license as pharmacists and pharmacy
interns all qualified applicants as provided by this chapter.
6.Require each applicant for an initial license to
submit to the board a full set of fingerprints for the purpose of obtaining a
state and federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and
Public Law 92544. The department of public safety may exchange this
fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.
7.Issue duplicates of lost or destroyed permits on
the payment of a fee as prescribed by the board.
8.Adopt rules for the rehabilitation of pharmacists
and pharmacy interns as provided by this chapter.
9.At least once every three months, notify
pharmacies regulated pursuant to this chapter of any modifications on
prescription writing privileges of podiatrists, dentists, doctors of medicine,
registered nurse practitioners, osteopathic physicians, veterinarians,
physician assistants, optometrists and homeopathic physicians of which it
receives notification from the board of podiatry examiners, board of dental
examiners, Arizona medical board, board of nursing, board of osteopathic
examiners in medicine and surgery, veterinary medical examining board, Arizona
regulatory board of physician assistants, board of optometry or board of
homeopathic and integrated medicine examiners.
B.The board may:
1.Employ chemists, compliance officers, clerical
help and other employees subject to title 41, chapter 4, article 4 and provide
laboratory facilities for the proper conduct of its business.
2.Provide, by education of and information to the
licensees and to the public, assistance in the curtailment of abuse in the use
of drugs, devices, poisons and hazardous substances.
3.Approve or reject the manner of storage and
security of drugs, devices, poisons and hazardous substances.
4.Accept monies and services to assist in the
enforcement of this chapter from other than licensees:
(a)For performing inspections and other board
functions.
(b)For the cost of copies of the pharmacy and
controlled substances laws, the annual report of the board and other
information from the board.
5.Adopt rules for professional conduct appropriate
to the establishment and maintenance of a high standard of integrity and
dignity in the profession of pharmacy.
6.Grant permission to deviate from a state
requirement for experimentation and technological advances.
7.Adopt rules for the training and practice of
pharmacy interns, pharmacy technicians and support personnel.
8.Investigate alleged violations of this chapter,
conduct hearings in respect to violations, subpoena witnesses and take such
action as it deems necessary to revoke or suspend a license or a permit, place
a licensee or permittee on probation or warn a licensee or permittee under this
chapter or to bring notice of violations to the county attorney of the county
in which a violation took place or to the attorney general.
9.By rule, approve colleges or schools of pharmacy.
10.By rule, approve programs of practical
experience, clinical programs, internship training programs, programs of
remedial academic work and preliminary equivalency examinations as provided by
this chapter.
11.Assist in the continuing education of
pharmacists and pharmacy interns.
12.Issue inactive status licenses as provided by
this chapter.
13.Accept monies and services from the federal
government or others for educational, research or other purposes pertaining to
the enforcement of this chapter.
14.By rule, except from the application of all or
any part of this chapter any material, compound, mixture or preparation
containing any stimulant or depressant substance included in section 133401,
paragraph 6, subdivision (c) or (d) from the definition of dangerous drug if
the material, compound, mixture or preparation contains one or more active
medicinal ingredients not having a stimulant or depressant effect on the
central nervous system, provided that such admixtures are included in such
combinations, quantity, proportion or concentration as to vitiate the potential
for abuse of the substances that do have a stimulant or depressant effect on
the central nervous system.
15.Adopt rules for the revocation, suspension or
reinstatement of licenses or permits or the probation of licensees or
permittees as provided by this chapter.
16.Issue
a certificate of free sale to any person that is licensed by the board as a
manufacturer for the purpose of manufacturing or distributing food supplements
or dietary supplements as defined in rule by the board and that wants to sell
food supplements or dietary supplements domestically or internationally. The
application shall contain all of the following:
(a)The
applicant's name, address, e-mail address, telephone and fax number.
(b)The
product's full, common or usual name.
(c)A copy
of the label for each product listed.If the product is to be
exported in bulk and a label is not available, the applicant shall include a
certificate of composition.
(d)The
country of export, if applicable.
(e)The
number of certificates of free sale requested.
17.Establish
an inspection process for the issuance of certificates of free sale or good
manufacturing practice certifications.The board shall establish in
rule:
(a)A fee
for the issuance of certificates of free sale. 
(b)A fee
for the issuance of good manufacturing practice certifications. 
(c)An
annual inspection fee.
C.The executive director and other personnel or
agents of the board are not subject to civil liability for any act done or
proceeding undertaken or performed in good faith and in furtherance of the
purposes of this chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Rulemaking; exemption
For the purposes of this act, the Arizona state board of
pharmacy is exempt from the rulemaking requirements of title 41, chapter 6,
Arizona Revised Statutes, for one year after the effective date of this act.

