







REFERENCE TITLE: adoption; eligibility; certification
  exceptions








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1415









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

amending sections
8102, 8103 and 8105, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to
adoption.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 8-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-102.Who may be adopted
A.Except
as provided in title 14, chapter 8 and
subsection B of this section, only a child, or a foreignborn
person who is twentyone years of age or less and who is not an illegal
alien, who is present
within this state at the time the petition for adoption is filed may be
adopted.
B.A
dependent child is not required to be present in this state at the time the
petition for adoption is filed if the criteria prescribed in section 8103,
subsection B are met. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-103.Who may adopt
A.Any adult resident of this state, whether married,
unmarried or legally separated,
is eligible to qualify to adopt children.A husband and wife may
jointly adopt children.
B.An adult
nonresident of this state, whether married, unmarried or legally separated, is
eligible to qualify to adopt a child if all of the following apply:
1.The child
is a dependent child and currently under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court
in this state.
2.The child
currently resides in the home of the applicant.
3.The
department placed the child in the home of the applicant pursuant to section 8548.
4.The
department recommends the adoption of the child by the applicant.
B.C.Pursuant to rules
adopted by the division department, the division
department or adoption agency shall place a child in an adoptive
home that best meets the safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health
needs of the child. Other relevant factors for consideration, in no order of
preference, shall include:
1.The marital status, and
the length and stability of the marital relationship of the
prospective adoptive parents.
2.Placement with the child's siblings pursuant to
section 8862.
3.Established relationships between the child and
the prospective adoptive family as described in section 8862, including
placement with a grandparent or another member of the child's extended family, including a person or foster
parent who has a significant relationship with the child.
4.The prospective adoptive family's ability to meet
the child's safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health needs and the
ability to financially provide for the child.
5.The wishes of the child who is twelve years of
age or older.
6.The wishes of the child's birth parents unless
the rights of the parent have been terminated or the court has established a
case plan of severance and adoption.
7.The availability of relatives, the child's
current or former foster parents or other significant persons to provide
support to the prospective adoptive family and child.
C.D.If all relevant
factors are equal and the choice is between a married man and woman certified
to adopt and a single adult certified to adopt, placement preference shall be
with a married man and woman.
D.E.In each adoption
proceeding, the court shall make findings on the record regarding the best
interests of the child pursuant to law. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 8-105, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-105.Preadoption certification; investigation; central adoption
registry
A.Before any prospective adoptive parent may
petition to adopt a child the person shall be certified by the court as
acceptable to adopt children.A certificate shall be issued only
after an investigation conducted by an officer of the court, by an agency or by
the division department.A written application
for certification shall be made directly to the court, to an agency or to the division department, in the form and content required
by the court, agency or division department.
B.The division department is not required to
accept every application for certification. In determining which applications
to accept the division department may give priority
to applications filed by adult residents of this state who wish to adopt a
child who has any special needs as defined in section 8141.
C.After receiving and accepting the written and
completed application of the prospective adoptive parent or parents, which
shall include a financial statement and a physician's or a registered nurse
practitioner's statement of each applicant's physical health, the division department, the agency or an officer of the
court shall conduct or cause to be conducted an investigation of the
prospective adoptive parent or parents to determine if they are fit and proper
persons to adopt children.
D.The division department shall not present
for certification a prospective adoptive parent unless that person and each
other adult member of the household have a valid fingerprint clearance card
issued pursuant to section 41-1758.07. The prospective adoptive parent and
each other adult member of the household must certify on forms that are
provided by the division department and that are
notarized whether that person is awaiting trial on or has ever been convicted
of any of the criminal offenses listed in section 411758.07, subsections
B and C in this state or similar offenses in another state or jurisdiction.
E.An officer of the court may obtain a state and
federal criminal records check pursuant to section 411750 and Public Law
92544.The department of public safety may exchange this
fingerprint data with the federal bureau of investigation.
F.This investigation and report to the court shall
consider all relevant and material facts dealing with the prospective adoptive
parents' fitness to adopt children and shall include:
1.A complete social history.
2.The financial condition of the applicant.
3.The moral fitness of the applicant.
4.The religious background of the applicant.
5.The physical and mental health condition of the
applicants.
6.Any court action for or adjudication of child
abuse, abandonment of children, dependency or termination of parentchild
relationship in which the applicant had control, care or custody of the child
who was the subject of the action.
7.Whether the person or persons wish to be placed
on the central registry established in subsection M of this section.
8.All other facts bearing on the issue of the
fitness of the prospective adoptive parents that the court, agency or division department may deem relevant.
G.The investigator shall not reveal to the
prospective adoptive parents the identity of a child or the child's parent or
parents and shall not reveal to the child or the child's parent or parents the
identity of the prospective adoptive parents if these facts are not already
known.
H.Within ninety days after the original application
prescribed by subsection A of this section has been accepted, the division department or the agency or a person or
agency designated by the court to conduct an investigation shall present to the
juvenile court the written report required by subsection F of this section,
which shall include a definite recommendation for certifying the applicant as
being acceptable or nonacceptable to adopt children and the reasons for the
recommendation.
I.Within sixty days after receiving the
investigation report required by subsections F and H of this section, the court
shall certify the applicant as being acceptable or nonacceptable to adopt
children based on the investigation report and recommendations of the
report.A certification remains in effect for eighteen months from
the date of its issuance and may be extended for additional one year periods if
after review the court finds that there have been no material changes in
circumstances that would adversely affect the acceptability of the applicant to
adopt.
J.The court may require additional investigation if
it finds that additional information is necessary on which to make an
appropriate decision regarding certification.
K.Any applicant who has been certified as
nonacceptable may petition the court to review such that
certification.Notice shall be given to all interested
parties and the matter shall be heard by the court, which may affirm or reverse
the certification.
L.If the applicant is certified as nonacceptable,
the applicant may not reapply for certification to the court, to any agency or
to the division department for one year.
M.The division department shall maintain a
central adoption registry that includes the names of all prospective adoptive
parents currently certified by the court as acceptable to adopt children,
except those who request that their names not be included, the names of all
children who are under the jurisdiction of the division
department and who are currently available for adoption, the
names of any other children who are currently available for adoption and whose
names are voluntarily entered in the registry by any agency, parent or other
person that has the right to give consent to the child's adoption, and other
information as the division department may elect to
include in aid of adoptive placements. Access to information in the registry
shall be made available on request to any agency under assurances as the division department may require that the information
sought is in furtherance of adoptive placements and that confidentiality of the
information is preserved.
N.This section does not apply if:
1.The prospective adoptive parent is the spouse of
the birth or legal parent of the child to be adopted or is an uncle, aunt, greatuncle, greataunt,
adult sibling, grandparent or greatgrandparent of the child of the whole
or halfblood or by marriage or adoption.
2.The birth or legal parent is deceased but at the
time of death the parent had legal and physical custody of the child to be
adopted and the child had resided primarily with the spouse of the birth or
legal parent during the twentyfour months before the death of the
parent.
3.The grandparent, greatgrandparent, uncle, aunt, greatuncle, greataunt or adult
sibling or uncle is
deceased but at the time of death that person had legal and physical custody of
the child to be adopted and the child had resided primarily with the spouse of
the grandparent, greatgrandparent, uncle, aunt, greatuncle, greataunt or adult
sibling or uncle during the
twentyfour months before the death of the grandparent, greatgrandparent, uncle, aunt, greatuncle, greataunt or adult
sibling or uncle.
4.The
applicant is a licensed foster parent who is petitioning to adopt a child
currently placed by the department in the foster parent's home and the
department recommends the adoption of the child by the foster parent applicant.
O.If the applicant is not a licensed foster parent and has
adopted a child within three years preceding the current application and is
applying to adopt another child or is a
foster parent who is licensed by this state, the division department or agency or a person designated by
the court to conduct an investigation shall only provide an update report on
any changes in circumstances that have occurred since the previous
certification or licensing report. If the applicant has adopted a child more
than three years before the current application and is applying to adopt
another child, the division department or agency or a
person designated by the court to conduct an investigation may provide an
updated report on any changes in circumstances that have occurred since the
previous certification or licensing report. The court shall certify the
applicant as acceptable to adopt unless there are changes in circumstances that
adversely affect the applicant's parenting ability. In making this
determination, the court shall consider information from the prior
certification or licensing report. END_STATUTE

