







REFERENCE TITLE: spouses; married couples; terminology







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1409









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Farley, Pancrazi, Quezada, Sherwood:
  Bradley, Contreras





AN ACT

AMENDING SECTIONS
7-102, 8-103, 10-1623, 10-2058, 10-2060, 11-1134, 12612, 122231,
12-2232, 13-1408, 13-3609, 13-4062, 14-1201, 14-2802, 142804, 143101,
14-5426, 14-9106, 23-805, 23-1046, 23-1064, 25-211, 25314, 251060,
251256, 32-2101, 33-405, 33-431, 33-452, 33-454, 33-457, 36832,
422079, 43301, 43-309, 43-310, 43-311, 43-432, 43-562, 43-943,
43-1022, 431041, 431043, 43-1083, 43-1086, 43-1088, 43-1089,
43-1089.01, 43-1089.02 AND 431089.03, ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES; RELATING
TO MARRIED COUPLES.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 7-102, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE7-102.Qualification of sureties
A bond shall not be approved if executed by individual sureties
unless the sureties appear upon
on the tax roll of the
county for an amount at least equal to the penalty of any other judicial bonds upon on which they may already be
sureties.If a surety is married, the bond shall be signed by both husband and wife spouses. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 8-103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE8-103.Who may adopt
A.Any adult resident of this state, whether
married, unmarried or legally separated,
is eligible to qualify to adopt children.A husband and wife A married couple may jointly adopt children.
B.Pursuant to rules adopted by the division, the
division or adoption agency shall place a child in an adoptive home that best
meets the safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health needs of the
child. Other relevant factors for consideration, in no order of preference,
shall include:
1.The marital status,
and the length and stability of the marital relationship of the
prospective adoptive parents.
2.Placement with the child's siblings pursuant to
section 8862.
3.Established relationships between the child and
the prospective adoptive family as described in section 8862, including
placement with a grandparent or another member of the child's extended family
including a person or foster parent who has a significant relationship with the
child.
4.The prospective adoptive family's ability to meet
the child's safety, social, emotional, physical and mental health needs and the
ability to financially provide for the child.
5.The wishes of the child who is twelve years of
age or older.
6.The wishes of the child's birth parents unless
the rights of the parent have been terminated or the court has established a
case plan of severance and adoption.
7.The availability of relatives, the child's
current or former foster parents or other significant persons to provide
support to the prospective adoptive family and child.
C.If all relevant factors are equal and the choice
is between a married man and woman
couple certified to adopt
and a single adult certified to adopt, placement preference shall be with a
married man and woman couple.
D.In each adoption proceeding, the court shall make
findings on the record regarding the best interests of the child pursuant to
law. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
10-1623, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-1623.Statement of bankruptcy or receivership; interrogatories
before subsequent incorporation; violation; classification; definitions
A.On the filing of a
petition for bankruptcy or the appointment of a receiver for any corporation,
the corporation shall deliver a statement to the commission listing:
1.All officers, directors, trustees and major
stockholders of the corporation within one year of filing the petition for
bankruptcy or the appointment of a receiver.If a major stockholder
is a corporation, the statement shall list the current president, the chairman of the board of
directors and major stockholders of such corporate stockholder.
2.Whether any such person has been an officer,
director, trustee or major stockholder of any other corporation within one year
of the bankruptcy or receivership of the other corporation.
3.If the answer in paragraph 2 of this subsection
is in the affirmative, for each such corporation the following information:
(a)Name and address.
(b)States in which it:
(i)Was incorporated.
(ii)Transacted business.
(c)Dates of operation.
B.The commission shall maintain a suitably indexed
list of all such persons.The index is a public record of the
commission for purposes of title 39.
C.On receipt for filing of articles of
incorporation of a new corporation or application for authority to transact
business by a foreign corporation, the commission shall determine whether any
person proposed as an officer, director, trustee, incorporator or major
stockholder of the new or foreign corporation has been involved two or more
times in a corporate bankruptcy, receivership, revocation, administrative
dissolution or judicial dissolution commenced by any state.If so,
the commission may direct detailed interrogatories to the persons requiring any
additional relevant information deemed necessary by the commission and at the
same time shall provide public notice of the interrogatory
procedure.Any person may request additional interrogatories or may
provide additional information to the commission.The
interrogatories shall be completely answered within thirty days after
mailing.With respect to corporations incorporated or seeking
authority to transact business, articles of incorporation or application for
authority shall not be filed until all outstanding interrogatories have been
answered to the satisfaction of the commission.
D.Any applicant for filing articles of
incorporation or authority to transact business who is dissatisfied with a
determination of the commission or any other proceeding under this section may
demand and the commission or its designee shall convene a public hearing at the
county seat of the county of the corporate headquarters of the proposed
corporation.The commission shall give public notice of the hearing
at least twenty days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in any county in which a relevant prior bankruptcy or
receivership occurred.
E.The commission shall provide the attorney general
with a copy of statements furnished pursuant to subsection A of this section and answers to interrogatories
propounded pursuant to subsection C of
this section on a quarterly updated basis.
F.Any person or corporation failing to comply with
the requirements of this section is guilty of a class 1
misdemeanor.Any person making a false statement or giving false
information pursuant to this section is guilty of a class 5 felony.
G.In
For the purposes of this
section:
1."Controlling" includes the total shares
of stock issued to a husband and wife married couple and their
relatives to the first degree of consanguinity.
2."Major stockholder" means a shareholder
possessing or controlling twenty percent
percent of the issued and
outstanding shares or twenty percent
percent of any
proprietary, beneficial or membership interest in the corporation. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 10-2058, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2058.Board of directors; compensation; term; quorum
A.The business of a cooperative shall be managed by
a board of directors. Unless the bylaws provide otherwise, each of the
directors shall be a member of the cooperative or of another cooperative that
is a member. The bylaws shall prescribe the number of directors, their
qualifications other than those prescribed in this article and the manner of
holding meetings of the board of directors and of electing successors to
directors who resign or die or who are otherwise incapable of acting. The
bylaws may also provide for the removal of directors from office and for the
election of their successors.
B.Unless the bylaws provide otherwise, the
directors shall not receive salaries for services as directors and, except in
emergencies, shall not be employed by the cooperative in any capacity involving
compensation without the approval of the members. The bylaws may allow a
payment of a fee and provide that expenses of attendance may be allowed to each
director for attendance at each meeting of the board of directors.
C.The directors of a cooperative named in the
articles of incorporation, consolidation, merger or conversion shall hold
office until successors are elected and qualify. The bylaws shall prescribe
the manner of electing directors and the number and terms of the directors,
including whether the terms are staggered. If stated in the bylaws, at each
annual meeting, or, in case of failure to hold the annual meeting as specified
in the bylaws, at a special meeting called for that purpose, the members shall
elect directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of the members,
except as otherwise provided in this article. Each director shall hold office
for the term for which the director is elected and until a successor is elected
and qualifies. A director may resign at any time by delivering written notice
to the board of directors, its presiding officer or the cooperative. A
resignation is effective when the notice is delivered unless the notice
specifies a later effective date or event.
D.A majority of the board of directors shall
constitute a quorum.
E.If a husband
and wife hold married
couple holds a
joint membership in a cooperative, either one spouse,
but not both, may be elected a director.
F.The board of directors may take any action
without a meeting if the action would be allowed at a meeting and if before the
board takes the action all of the directors who are normally required to
approve the action at a meeting provide prior consent by signing a written
statement that explains and approves the action.
G.The board of directors may exercise all the
powers of a cooperative not conferred upon
on the members by this
article, or its articles of incorporation or bylaws. 
H.Any person who serves as a director or officer or
who serves on a board or council in an advisory capacity to the cooperative or
board of directors of a cooperative is immune from civil liability and is not
subject to a suit directly or by way of contribution for any act or omission
that results in damage or injury if that person was acting in good faith and
within the scope of that person's official capacity and the damage or injury
was not caused by the wilful conduct or gross negligence of that person.
Nothing in this subsection limits or modifies in any manner the duties or
liabilities of a director or person who serves in any advisory capacity to the
cooperative or the cooperative members.For the purposes of this
subsection, "official capacity" means any decision, act or event the
cooperative undertakes in furtherance of the purposes for which the cooperative
is organized or operating. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 10-2060, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE10-2060.Members in cooperative
Each incorporator of a cooperative shall be a member of the
cooperative, but no other person may become a member unless the person agrees
to use electric energy or other services furnished by the cooperative as the
cooperative establishes in its bylaws.A husband and wife married couple may hold a joint membership in
a cooperative.Membership in a cooperative is not transferable,
except as provided in the bylaws.The bylaws may prescribe
additional qualifications, limitations, classifications and rights concerning
membership. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 11-1134, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-1134.Exemptions
A.The affidavit and fee required by this article do
not apply to the following instruments:
1.A deed that represents the payment in full or
forfeiture of a recorded contract for the sale of real property.
2.A lease or easement on real property, regardless
of the length of the term.
3.A deed, patent or contract for the sale or
transfer of real property in which an agency or representative of the United
States, this state, a county, city or town of this state or any political
subdivision of this state is the named grantor, and authorized seller, or
purchaser.
4.A quitclaim deed to quiet title as described in
section 121103, subsection B or otherwise executed for no monetary
consideration.
5.A conveyance of real property that is executed
pursuant to a court order.
6.A deed to an unpatented mining claim.
7.A deed of gift.
B.The affidavit and fee required by this article do
not apply to a transfer of title:
1.Solely in order to provide or release security
for a debt or obligation, including a trustee's deed pursuant to power of sale
under a deed of trust.
2.That confirms or corrects a deed that was
previously recorded.
3.When the transfer of title has only nominal
actual consideration for the transfer of residential property between:
(a)Husband
and wife a married couple
or ancestor of the husband and wife either spouse.
(b)Parent and child, including natural or adopted
children and their descendants.
(c)Grandparent and grandchild.
(d)Natural or adopted siblings.
4.On a sale for delinquent taxes or assessments.
5.On partition.
6.Pursuant to a merger.
7.For no consideration or nominal consideration:
(a)By
a subsidiary to its parent or from a parent to a subsidiary.
(b)Among
commonly controlled entities.
(c)From
a member to its limited liability company or from a limited liability company
to a member.
(d)From
a partner to its partnership.
(e)From
a partnership to a partner.
(f)From
a joint venturer to its joint venture.
(g)From
a joint venture to a joint venturer.
(h)From
a trust beneficiary to its trustee.
(i)From
a trustee to its trust beneficiary.
(j)From
any of the entities in subdivisions (a) through (i) of this paragraph to a
single purpose entity in order to obtain financing.
8.From a person to a trustee or from a trustee to a
trust beneficiary with only nominal actual consideration for the transfer.
9.To and from an intermediary for the purpose of
creating a joint tenancy estate or some other form of ownership.
10.From a husband
and wife married couple or
one of them the spouses to both husband and wife spouses to create an estate in community
property with right of survivorship.
11.From two or more persons to themselves to create
an estate in joint tenancy with right of survivorship.
12.Pursuant to a beneficiary deed with only nominal
actual consideration for the transfer.
13.From an owner to itself or a related entity for
no or nominal consideration solely for the purpose of consolidating or
splitting parcels.
14.Due to a legal name change.
C.Any instrument that describes a transaction that
is exempt under this section shall note the exemption on the face of the
instrument at the time of recording, indicating the specific exemption that is
claimed. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section 12-612, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-612.Parties plaintiff; recovery; distribution;
disqualification
A.An action for wrongful death shall be brought by
and in the name of the surviving husband
or wife spouse,
child, parent or guardian, or personal representative of the deceased person
for and on behalf of the surviving husband
or wife spouse,
children or parents, or if none of these survive, on behalf of the decedent's
estate.
B.Either parent may maintain the action for the
death of a child, and the guardian may maintain the action for the death of the
guardian's ward.
C.The amount recovered in an action for wrongful
death shall be distributed to the parties provided for in subsection A of this
section in proportion to their damages, and if recovery is on behalf of the
decedent's estate the amount shall be an asset of the estate.
D.If any party listed in subsection A of this
section is found guilty of or guilty except insane for, or pled guilty or no
contest to, a violation of section 133623 involving the death of the
child decedent or a violation of section 131103, 131104 or 131105
involving the death of the decedent, the party is deemed to have predeceased
the decedent and is disqualified from recovering wrongful death benefits. This
subsection applies to a person who is found guilty of or guilty except insane
for, or pled guilty or no contest to, an offense committed in another
jurisdiction that has the same elements of an offense listed in this subsection
and that if committed in this state would be a violation of any of the offenses
listed in this subsection.
E.For the purposes of subsection A of this section,
"personal representative" includes any person to whom letters
testamentary or of administration are granted by competent authority under the
laws of this or any other state. The personal representative may maintain the
action for wrongful death without the issuance of further letters or any other
requirement or authorization of law. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section 12-2231, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-2231.Spouses; antimarital fact
In a civil action,
a husband spouse shall not be examined for or against his wife the other spouse without her the
other spouse's consent, nor
a wife for or against her husband without his consent, except as
provided in section 122232. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 12-2232, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE12-2232.Spouses; privileged communications; permissible
examination
A.A husband
or wife spouse,
during the marriage or afterward, without the consent of the other spouse, shall not be examined
as to any communications made by one to the other during the marriage, except:
1.In an action for divorce or a civil action by one
against the other.
2.In a criminal action or proceeding as provided in
the criminal code.
3.In an action for damages against another person
for adultery committed by either husband
or wife spouse.
B.In a hearing conducted pursuant to title 36,
chapter 5, a husband or wife spouse, during the marriage or
afterward, without the consent of the other spouse, may be examined as to any
communications, physical acts or behaviors made by one to the other during the
marriage that relate to the matters at issue in the hearing. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 13-1408, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-1408.Adultery; classification; punishment; limitation on
prosecution
A.A married person who has sexual intercourse with
another than his or her spouse, and an unmarried person who has sexual
intercourse with a married person not his or her spouse, commits adultery and
is guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.When the act is committed
between parties only one of whom is married, both shall be punished.
B.No a prosecution for adultery
shall not be commenced
except upon on the complaint of the husband or wife a spouse. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 13-3609, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-3609.Child bigamy; classification; definitions
A.A person commits child bigamy if the person
knowingly does any of the following:
1.Is at least eighteen years of age, has a spouse
and marries a child.
2.Is at least eighteen years of age and, either
alone or in association with others, directs, causes or controls the marriage
of a child to a person who already has a spouse.
3.Is at least eighteen years of age and, either
alone or in association with others, directs, causes or controls the marriage
of a child if the child already has a spouse.
4.Is at least eighteen years of age and marries a
child if the child already has a spouse.
5.Transports or finances the transportation of a
child to promote marriage between the child and a person who already has a
spouse.
6.Transports or finances the transportation of a
child who already has a spouse to promote marriage between the child and another
person.
B.This section does not apply if a person who
marries a child:
1.Has a spouse who has been absent for at least
five successive years without being known to the person within that time to be
living.
2.Has a former marriage that has been pronounced
void, annulled or dissolved by judgment of a competent court.
C.A violation of this section is a class 3 felony.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Marriage" means the state of joining
together as husband and wife
a married couple through
an agreement, promise or ceremony regardless of whether a marriage license has
been issued by the appropriate authority.
2."Marry" means to join together as husband and wife a married couple through an agreement, promise
or ceremony regardless of whether a marriage license has been issued by the
appropriate authority. 
3."Spouses
Spouse" means two
persons living together as husband and
wife a married couple,
including the assumption of those marital rights, duties and obligations that
are usually manifested by married people, including but not necessarily
dependent on sexual relations. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 13-4062, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-4062.Antimarital fact privilege; other privileged
communications
A person shall not be examined as a witness in the following
cases:
1.A husband
spouse for or against his wife the other spouse without her the
other spouse's consent, nor
a wife for or against her husband without his consent, as to
events occurring during the marriage, nor can either, during the marriage or
afterwards, without consent of the other, be examined as to any communication
made by one to the other during the marriage. These exceptions do not apply in
a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by the husband a spouse against the wife, or by the wife against the husband, other spouse nor in a criminal
action or proceeding against the
husband a spouse for abandonment, failure to support
or provide for or failure or neglect to furnish the necessities of life to the wife other spouse or the minor children. Either
spouse may be examined as a witness for or against the other in a prosecution
for an offense listed in section 13706, subsection F, paragraph 1, for
bigamy or adultery, committed by either spouse, or for sexual assault committed by the husband if
either of the following occurs:
(a)Before testifying, the testifying spouse makes a
voluntary statement to a law enforcement officer during an investigation of the
offense or offenses about the events that gave rise to the prosecution or about
any statements made to the spouse by the other spouse about those events.
(b)Either spouse requests to testify.
2.An attorney, without consent of the attorney's
client, as to any communication made by the client to the attorney, or the
attorney's advice given in the course of professional employment.
3.A clergyman or priest, without consent of the person
making the confession, as to any confession made to the clergyman or priest in
his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which the clergyman or priest belongs.
4.A physician or surgeon, without consent of the
physician's or surgeon's patient, as to any information acquired in attending
the patient which was necessary to enable the physician or surgeon to prescribe
or act for the patient. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 14-1201, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-1201.Definitions
In this title, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Agent" includes an attorneyinfact
under a durable or nondurable power of attorney, a person who is authorized to
make decisions concerning another person's health care and a person who is
authorized to make decisions for another person under a natural death act.
2."Application" means a written request
to the registrar for an order of informal probate or appointment under chapter
3, article 3 of this title.
3."Basis for compensation" means an hourly rate, a fixed fee or
a contingency fee agreement and reimbursable costs.
4."Beneficiary", as it relates to a trust
beneficiary, includes a person who has any present or future interest, vested
or contingent, and also
includes the owner of an interest by assignment or other
transfer.As it relates to a charitable trust, beneficiary includes
any person entitled to enforce the trust.As it relates to a
beneficiary of a beneficiary designation, beneficiary refers to a beneficiary
of an insurance or annuity policy, an account with pay on death designation, a
security registered in beneficiary form or a pension, profit sharing,
retirement or similar benefit plan, or any other nonprobate transfer at
death.As it relates to a beneficiary designated in a governing
instrument, beneficiary includes a grantee of a deed, a devisee, a trust
beneficiary, a beneficiary of a beneficiary designation, a donee, appointee or
taker in default of a power of appointment and a person in whose favor a power
of attorney or a power held in any person, fiduciary or representative capacity
is exercised.
5."Beneficiary designation" refers to a
governing instrument naming a beneficiary of an insurance or annuity policy, of
an account with pay on death designation, of a security registered in
beneficiary form or of a pension, profit sharing, retirement or similar benefit
plan, or any other nonprobate transfer at death.
6."Child" includes a person who is
entitled to take as a child under this title by intestate succession from the
parent whose relationship is involved. Child excludes a person who is only a
stepchild, a foster child, a grandchild or a more remote descendant.
7."Claims", in respect to estates of
decedents and protected persons, includes liabilities of the decedent or the
protected person, whether arising in contract, in tort or otherwise, and
liabilities of the estate that arise at or after the death of the decedent or
after the appointment of a conservator, including funeral expenses and expenses
of administration. Claims do not include estate or inheritance taxes or
demands or disputes regarding title of a decedent or a protected person to
specific assets alleged to be included in the estate.
8."Community property" means that
property of a husband and wife
married couple that is
acquired during the marriage and that is community property as prescribed in
section 25211.
9."Conservator" means a person who is
appointed by a court to manage the estate of a protected person.
10."Court" means the superior court.
11."Dependent child" means a minor child
whom the decedent was obligated to support or an adult child who was in fact
being supported by the decedent at the time of the decedent's death.
12."Descendant" means all of the
decedent's descendants of all generations, with the relationship of parent and
child at each generation.
13."Devise", when used as a noun, means a
testamentary disposition of real or personal property and, when used as a verb,
means to dispose of real or personal property by will.
14."Devisee" means a person who is designated in a will to
receive a devise. For the purposes of chapter 3 of this title, in the case of a
devise to an existing trust or trustee, or to a trustee on trust described by
will, the trust or trustee is the devisee and the beneficiaries are not
devisees.
15."Disability" means cause for a
protective order as described in section 145401.
16."Distributee" means any person who has
received property of a decedent from that person's personal representative
other than as a creditor or purchaser.Distributee includes a
testamentary trustee only to the extent of distributed assets or increment that
remains in that person's hands.A beneficiary of a testamentary
trust to whom the trustee has distributed property received from a personal
representative is a distributee of the personal representative.For
the purposes of this paragraph, "testamentary trustee" includes a
trustee to whom assets are transferred by will, to the extent of the devised
assets.
17."Estate" includes the property of the
decedent, trust or other person whose affairs are subject to this title as
originally constituted and as it exists from time to time during
administration.As it relates to a spouse, the estate includes only
the separate property and the share of the community property belonging to the
decedent or person whose affairs are subject to this title.
18."Exempt property" means that property
of a decedent's estate that is described in section 142403.
19."Fiduciary" includes a personal
representative, guardian, conservator and trustee.
20."Foreign personal representative"
means a personal representative who is appointed
by another jurisdiction.
21."Formal proceedings" means proceedings
that are conducted before
a judge with notice to interested persons.
22."Governing instrument" means a deed,
will, trust, insurance or annuity policy, account with pay on death
designation, security registered in beneficiary form, pension, profit sharing,
retirement or similar benefit plan, instrument creating or exercising a power
of appointment or a power of attorney or a dispositive, appointive or
nominative instrument of any similar type.
23."Guardian" means a person who has
qualified as a guardian of a minor or incapacitated person pursuant to
testamentary or court appointment but excludes a person who is merely a
guardian ad litem.
24."Guardian ad litem" includes a person
who is appointed pursuant to section 141408.
25."Heirs", except as controlled by
section 142711, means persons, including the surviving spouse and the
state, who are entitled under the statutes of intestate succession to the
property of a decedent.
26."Incapacitated person" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 145101.
27."Informal proceedings" means those
proceedings conducted without notice to interested persons by an officer of the
court acting as a registrar for probate of a will or appointment of a personal
representative.
28."Interested person" includes any
trustee, heir, devisee, child, spouse, creditor, beneficiary, person holding a
power of appointment and other person who has a property right in or claim
against a trust estate or the estate of a decedent, ward or protected person.
Interested person also includes a person who has priority for appointment as
personal representative and other fiduciaries representing interested persons.
Interested person, as the term relates to particular persons, may vary from
time to time and must be determined according to the particular purposes of,
and matter involved in, any proceeding.
29."Issue" of a person means descendant
as defined in this section.
30."Joint tenants with the right of
survivorship" and "community property with the right of
survivorship" includes coowners of property held under
circumstances that entitle one or more to the whole of the property on the
death of the other or others but excludes forms of coownership
registration in which the underlying ownership of each party is in proportion
to that party's contribution.
31."Lease" includes any oil, gas or other
mineral lease.
32."Letters" includes letters
testamentary, letters of guardianship, letters of administration and letters of
conservatorship.
33."Minor" means a person who is under
eighteen years of age.
34."Mortgage" means any conveyance,
agreement or arrangement in which property is encumbered or used as security.
Mortgage does not include leases or easements.
35."Nonresident decedent" means a
decedent who was domiciled in another jurisdiction at the time of the
decedent's death.
36."Organization" means a corporation,
limited liability company, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, joint
venture, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency or any
other legal or commercial entity.
37."Parent" includes any person entitled
to take, or who would be entitled to take if the child died without a will, as
a parent under this title by intestate succession from the child whose
relationship is in question and excludes any person who is only a stepparent,
foster parent or grandparent.
38."Payor" means a trustee, insurer,
business entity, employer, government, governmental agency or subdivision or
any other person who is authorized or obligated by law or a governing
instrument to make payments.
39."Person" means an individual or an
organization.
40."Personal representative" includes an executor, an administrator, a successor personal representative, a special administrator and
persons who perform substantially the same function under the law governing
their status. A general personal representative excludes a special
administrator.
41."Petition" means a written request to
the court for an order after notice.
42."Proceeding" includes action at law
and suit in equity.
43."Property" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 1410103.
44."Protected person" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 145101.
45."Protective proceeding" has the same
meaning prescribed in section 145101.
46."Registrar" means the official of the
court who is designated
to perform the functions of registrar as provided in section 141307.
47."Security"
includes any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of
indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in an oil, gas or mining
title or lease or in payments out of production under that title or lease,
collateral trust certificate, transferable share or voting trust certificate
and, in general, includes any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security, or any certificate of interest or participation, any temporary or
interim certificate, receipt or certificate of deposit for, or any warrant or
right to subscribe to or purchase, any of these securities.
48."Separate property" means that
property of a husband or wife
spouse that is the
spouse's separate property as defined in section 25213.
49."Settlement", in reference to a
decedent's estate, includes the full process of administration, distribution
and closing.
50."Special administrator" means a
personal representative as described by sections 143614 through 143618.
51."State" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 1410103.
52."Successor personal representative"
means a personal representative, other than a special administrator, who is
appointed to succeed a previously appointed personal representative.
53."Successors" means persons, other than
creditors, who are entitled to property of a decedent under a will or this
title.
54."Supervised administration" refers to
the proceedings described in chapter 3, article 5 of this title.
55."Survive" means that a person has
neither predeceased an event, including the death of another person, nor is
deemed to have predeceased an event under section 142104 or 142702.
56."Testacy proceeding" means a
proceeding to establish a will or determine intestacy.
57."Testator" includes a person of either
sex.
58."Trust" includes an express trust,
private or charitable, with any additions, wherever and however
created.Trust also includes a trust created or determined by
judgment or decree under which the trust is to be administered in the manner of
an express trust.Trust excludes other constructive trusts and
excludes resulting trusts, conservatorship, personal representatives, trust
accounts, custodial arrangements pursuant to chapter 7, article 7 of this
title, business trusts providing for certificates to be issued to
beneficiaries, common trust funds, voting trusts, security arrangements,
liquidation trusts and trusts for the primary purpose of paying debts,
dividends, interest, salaries, wages, profits, pensions or employee benefits of
any kind, trusts created by a city or town for the payment of medical
insurance, health care benefits or expenses, long-term or shortterm
disability, self insurance reserves and similar programs administered by a city
or town, legal defense trusts and any arrangement under which a person is
nominee or escrowee for another.
59."Trustee" includes an original,
additional or successor trustee, whether or not appointed or confirmed by the
court.
60."Ward" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 145101.
61."Will" includes a codicil and any
testamentary instrument that merely appoints an executor, revokes or revises
another will, nominates a guardian or expressly excludes or limits the right of
an individual or class to succeed to property of the decedent passing by
intestate succession. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section 14-2802, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-2802.Effect of divorce, annulment and decree of separation
A.A person who is divorced from the decedent or
whose marriage to the decedent has been annulled is not a surviving spouse
unless, by virtue of a subsequent marriage, that person is married to the
decedent at the time of death.A decree of separation that does not
terminate the status of husband and wife
the married couple is not
a divorce for purposes of this section.
B.For the purposes of this section, "surviving
spouse" does not include:
1.A person who obtains or consents to a final
decree or judgment of divorce from the decedent or an annulment of the marriage
if that decree or judgment is not recognized as valid in this state, unless
they subsequently participate in a marriage ceremony purporting to marry each
to the other or live together as husband
and wife a married couple.
2.A person who, after an invalid decree or judgment
of divorce or annulment obtained by the decedent, participates in a marriage
ceremony with a third person.
3.A person who was a party to a valid proceeding
concluded by an order purporting to terminate all marital property rights. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 14-2804, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-2804.Termination of marriage; effect; revocation of probate and
nonprobate transfers; federal law; definitions
A.Except as provided by the express terms of a
governing instrument, a court order or a contract relating to the division of
the marital estate made between a divorced couple before or after the marriage,
divorce or annulment, the divorce or annulment of a marriage:
1.Revokes any revocable:
(a)Disposition or appointment of property made by a
divorced person to that person's former spouse in a governing instrument and
any disposition or appointment created by law or in a governing instrument to a
relative of the divorced person's former spouse.
(b)Provision in a governing instrument conferring a
general or nongeneral power of appointment on the divorced person's former spouse
or on a relative of the divorced person's spouse.
(c)Nomination in a
governing instrument that nominates a divorced person's former spouse or a
relative of the divorced person's former spouse to serve in any fiduciary or
representative capacity, including a personal representative, executor,
trustee, conservator, agent or guardian.
2.Severs the interests of the former spouses in
property held by them at the time of the divorce or annulment as joint tenants
with the right of survivorship or as community property with the right of
survivorship and transforms the interests of the former spouses into tenancies
in common.
B.A severance under subsection A, paragraph 2 of
this section does not affect any third
party thirdparty
interest in property acquired for value and in good faith reliance on an
apparent title by survivorship in the survivor of the former spouses unless a
writing declaring the severance has been noted, registered, filed or recorded
in records appropriate to the kind and location of the property that a person
relied on as evidence of ownership in the ordinary course of transactions
involving that property.
C.Provisions of a governing instrument are given
effect as if the former spouse and relatives of the former spouse disclaimed
all provisions revoked by this section or, in the case of a revoked nomination
in a fiduciary or representative capacity, as if the former spouse and
relatives of the former spouse died immediately before the divorce or
annulment.
D.Provisions revoked solely by this section are
revived by the divorced person's remarriage to the former spouse or by a
nullification of the divorce or annulment.
E.No change of circumstances other than as
described in this section and in section 142803 effects a revocation.
F.Any payor or other third party is not liable for
making a payment or transferring an item of property or any other benefit to a
beneficiary designated in a governing instrument affected by a divorce,
annulment or remarriage, or for taking any other action in good faith reliance
on the validity of the governing instrument, before the payor or other third
party receives written notice of the divorce, annulment or
remarriage.Any payor or other third party is liable for a payment
made or any other action taken after the payor or other third party receives
written notice of a claimed forfeiture or revocation under this section.
G.Written notice of the divorce, annulment or
remarriage under subsection F of this section must be mailed to the payor's or
other third party's main office or home by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or served on the payor or other third party in the same manner as a
summons in a civil action.On receipt of written notice of the
divorce, annulment or remarriage, a payor or any other third party may pay any
amount owed or transfer or deposit any item of property held by it to or with
the court having jurisdiction of the probate proceedings relating to the
decedent's estate or, if no proceedings have been commenced, to or with the
court having jurisdiction of probate proceedings relating to decedents' estates
located in the county of the decedent's residence.The court shall
hold the monies or item of property and, on its determination under this
section, shall order disbursement or transfer in accordance with the
determination.Payments, transfers or deposits made to or with the
court discharge the payor or other third party from all claims for the value of
amounts paid to or items of property transferred to or deposited with the
court.
H.A person who purchases property from a former
spouse, a relative of a former spouse or any other person for value and without
notice or who receives from a former spouse, a relative of a former spouse or
any other person a payment or other item of property in partial or full
satisfaction of a legally enforceable obligation is neither obligated under
this section to return the payment, item of property or benefit nor is liable
under this section for the amount of the payment or the value of the item of
property or benefit.However, a former spouse, a relative of a
former spouse or any other person who, not for value, received a payment, an
item of property or any other benefit to which that person is not entitled
under this section is obligated to return the payment, item of property or
benefit to the person who is entitled to it under this section or is personally
liable for the amount of the payment or the value of the item of property or
benefit.
I.For the purpose
purposes of this section:
1."Disposition or appointment of
property" includes a transfer of an item of property or any other benefit
to a beneficiary designated in a governing instrument.
2."Divorce or annulment" means any
divorce or annulment or any dissolution or declaration of invalidity of a
marriage that would exclude the spouse as a surviving spouse within the meaning
of section 142802 but does not include a decree of separation that does
not terminate the status of husband and
wife the married couple.
3."Divorced person" includes a person
whose marriage has been annulled.
4."Governing instrument" means an
instrument that is executed
by the divorced person before the divorce or annulment of that person's
marriage to that person's former spouse.
5."Relative of the divorced person's former
spouse" means a person who is related to the divorced person's former
spouse by blood, adoption or affinity and who, after the divorce or annulment,
is not related to the divorced person by blood, adoption or affinity.
6."Revocable", with respect to a
disposition, appointment, provision or nomination, means one under which the
divorced person, at the time of the divorce or annulment, was alone empowered
by law or under the governing instrument to cancel a designation in favor of that
person's former spouse or former spouse's relative, whether or not the divorced
person was then empowered to designate himself or herself in place of that
person's former spouse or in place of the former spouse's relative and whether
or not the divorced person then had the capacity to exercise the power. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 14-3101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-3101.Devolution of estate at death; administration on deaths of
spouses
A.The power of a person to leave property by will,
and the rights of creditors, devisees and heirs to his the
person's property are subject to the restrictions and limitations
contained in this title to facilitate the prompt settlement of
estates.Upon On the death of a person, his the person's separate property and his share of community property devolves devolve to the persons to whom the property is
devised by his the person's last will, or to
those indicated as substitutes for them in cases involving lapse, renunciation
or other circumstances affecting the devolution of testate estates, or in the
absence of testamentary disposition to his
the person's heirs, or to
those indicated as substitutes for them in cases involving renunciation or
other circumstances affecting the devolution of intestate
estates.The devolution of separate property and decedent's share of
community property is subject to rights to the allowance in lieu of homestead,
exempt property and family allowance, to rights of creditors and to
administration as provided in this title.In addition, the surviving
spouse's share of the community property is subject to administration until the
time for presentation of claims has expired, and thereafter only to the extent
necessary to pay community claims.
B.If a
husband and wife both
spouses die, and the administration of one of their estates is
not completed prior to commencement of administration of the other, their
estates may be combined in a single administration with the same personal
representative, if feasible.A single application or petition may be
made to obtain appointment of a personal representative and to determine
testacy.If their estates devolve as if each spouse survived the
other because of application of section 142702, and their estates are
not combined, half of their community property is subject to administration in
each estate and community claims will be charged ratably to each half of the
community property. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section 14-5426, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-5426.Enlargement or limitation of powers of conservator
A.Subject to the restrictions in section 145408,
subsection A, paragraph 4, the court may confer on a conservator at the time of
appointment or later, in addition to the powers conferred on him by sections 145424 and 145425,
any power which the court
itself could exercise under section 145408, subsection A, paragraphs 2
and 3.The court may, at the time of appointment or later, limit the
powers of a conservator otherwise conferred by sections 145424 and 145425,
or previously conferred by the court, and may at any time relieve him the conservator of any
limitation.If the court limits any power conferred on the
conservator by section 145424 or 145425, the limitation shall be
endorsed upon his on the conservator's letters of
appointment.
B.Upon
On appointment of a
conservator for a protected spouse, the court may determine whether the
spouse's share of community property shall be managed by the conservator or by
the other spouse.If the court
determines that the community property shall be managed by the other spouse,
and if the protected spouse is the husband, the wife may become the manager of
the community property during the conservatorship and may dispose of community
personal property in the interests of the community. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section 14-9106, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE14-9106.Multiple beneficiaries; separate custodial trusts;
survivorship
A.Beneficial interests in a custodial trust created
for multiple beneficiaries are deemed to be separate custodial trusts of equal
undivided interests for each beneficiary. Except in a transfer or declaration
for use and benefit of husband and wife a married couple, for whom
survivorship is presumed, a right of survivorship does not exist unless the
instrument creating the custodial trust specifically provides for survivorship
or survivorship is required as to community or marital property.
B.Custodial trust property held under this chapter
by the same custodial trustee for the use and benefit of the same beneficiary
may be administered as a single custodial trust.
C.A custodial trustee of custodial trust property
held for more than one beneficiary shall separately account to each beneficiary
pursuant to sections 149107 and 149115 for the administration of
the custodial trust. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 23-805, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-805.Right of action for damages; twoyear limitation
A.When in the course of work in any of the
employments or occupations enumerated in section 23803, personal injury
or death by an accident arising out of and in the course of such the
labor, service and employment, and due to a condition or
conditions of such the occupation or employment,
is caused to or suffered by a workman engaged therein, in all cases in which
the injury or death of the employee is not caused by the negligence of the
employee killed or injured, the employer is liable in damages to the employee
injured or, in case death ensues, to the personal representative of the
deceased for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband spouse
and children of the employee or, if none, then to the employee's
parents or, if none, then to the next of kin dependent upon on
the employee or, if none, then to his the
employee's personal representative for the benefit of the estate
of the deceased.
B.The action shall not be maintained unless it is commenced within two
years from the day the claim or cause of action accrued. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Section
23-1046, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1046.Death benefits
A.In case of an injury causing death, the
compensation therefor shall be known as a death benefit and shall be payable in
the amount, for the period, and to and for the benefit of the following:
1.Burial expenses, not to exceed five thousand
dollars, in addition to the compensation.
2.To the surviving spouse, if there are no
children, sixtysix and twothirds per cent percent of the average monthly wage of the deceased, to be
paid until such the spouse's death or
remarriage, with two years' compensation in one sum upon on
remarriage.To the surviving spouse if there are
surviving children, thirtyfive per
cent percent of
the average monthly wage of the deceased, to be paid until such the
spouse's death or remarriage with two years' compensation in one
sum upon on remarriage, and to the surviving children,
an additional thirtyone and twothirds per cent percent of the average monthly wage, to be divided equally
among them until the age of eighteen years, until the age of twentytwo
years if the child is enrolled as a fulltime student in any accredited
educational institution, or if over eighteen years and incapable of selfsupport
when the child becomes capable of selfsupport. When all surviving
children are no longer eligible for benefits, the surviving spouse's benefits
shall be paid as if there were no children.In the event of the
subsequent death or remarriage of the surviving spouse, the surviving child's
or children's benefits shall be computed pursuant to paragraph 3 of this subsection.
3.To a single surviving child, in the case of the
subsequent death or remarriage of a surviving husband or wife spouse, or if there is no surviving husband or wife spouse, sixtysix and twothirds per cent percent of the average monthly wage of the
deceased, or if there is more than one surviving child, sixtysix and twothirds
per cent percent to be divided equally among the
surviving children.Compensation to any such child shall cease upon on death, upon on
marriage or upon
on reaching the age of
eighteen years, except, if over eighteen years and incapable of selfsupport,
when he the child becomes capable of selfsupport,
or if over eighteen years of age and enrolled as a fulltime student in
any accredited educational institution, when the child reaches age twentytwo.
4.To a parent, if there is no surviving husband, wife spouse or child under the age of eighteen
years, if wholly dependent for support upon
on the deceased employee
at the time of his the employee's death, twentyfive
percent percent of the average monthly
wage of the deceased during dependency, with an added allowance of fifteen per cent percent if two dependent parents survive, and,
if neither parent is wholly dependent, but one or both partly dependent,
fifteen per cent percent divided between them
share and share alike.
5.To brothers or sisters under the age of eighteen
years, if there is no surviving husband
or wife spouse,
dependent children under the age of eighteen years or dependent parent, the
following shall govern:
(a)If one of the brothers or sisters is wholly
dependent upon on the deceased employee for
support at the time of injury causing death, twentyfive per cent percent of the average monthly wage until the age of
eighteen years.
(b)If more than one brother or sister is wholly
dependent, thirtyfive per cent
percent of the average
monthly wage at the time of injury causing death, divided among such the
dependents share and share alike.
(c)If none of the brothers or sisters is wholly
dependent, but one or more are partly dependent, fifteen per cent percent divided among such the dependents
share and share alike.
B.If the deceased employee leaves dependents only
partially dependent upon his
on the employee's earnings
for support at the time of the injury, the monthly compensation shall be equal
to such that proportion of the monthly payments for
the benefit of persons totally dependent as the amount contributed by the
employee to such the partial dependents bears to
the average wage of the deceased at the time of the injury resulting in his the employee's death.The duration
of compensation to partial dependents shall be fixed by the commission in
accordance with the facts shown, and in accordance with the provisions of
section 231047, but shall in no
case not exceed
compensation for one hundred months.
C.In the event of death of a dependent before
expiration of the time named in the award, the funeral expenses of such the person, not to exceed eight hundred
dollars, shall be paid. END_STATUTE
Sec.21.Section 23-1064, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1064.Presumptions of dependency; determination
A.The following persons are conclusively presumed
to be totally dependent for support upon
on a deceased employee:
1.A wife upon
a husband whom she has spouse
on the other spouse who was not voluntarily abandoned at the time
of the injury.
2.A husband
upon a wife whom he has not voluntarily abandoned at the time of the injury.
3.2.A natural,
posthumous or adopted child under the age of eighteen years or under the age of
twentytwo years if enrolled as a fulltime student in any
accredited educational institution, or over that age if physically or mentally
incapacitated from wage earning, upon
on the injured
parent.Stepparents may be regarded as parents, if dependent, and a
stepchild as a natural child if dependent.
B.Questions of dependency and the extent thereof
shall be determined as of the date of the injury to the employee and the
dependent's right to any death benefit shall become fixed as of such that
time irrespective of any subsequent change in conditions, and the
death benefits shall be directly recoverable by and payable to the dependent
entitled thereto. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Heading change
The chapter heading of title 25, chapter 2, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is changed from "HUSBAND AND WIFE, PROPERTY AND CONTRACT RIGHTS" to
"PROPERTY AND CONTRACT RIGHTS OF SPOUSES".
Sec.23.Section 25-211, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE25-211.Property acquired during marriage as community property;
exceptions; effect of service of a petition
A.All property acquired by either husband or wife spouse during the marriage is the community
property of the husband and wife
married couple except for
property that is:
1.Acquired by gift, devise or descent.
2.Acquired after service of a petition for
dissolution of marriage, legal separation or annulment if the petition results
in a decree of dissolution of marriage, legal separation or annulment.
B.Notwithstanding subsection A, paragraph 2 of this section, service of a
petition for dissolution of marriage, legal separation or annulment does not:
1.Alter the status of preexisting community
property.
2.Change the status of community property used to
acquire new property or the status of that new property as community property.
3.Alter the duties and rights of either spouse with
respect to the management of community property except as prescribed pursuant
to section 25315, subsection A, paragraph 1, subdivision (a). END_STATUTE
Sec.24.Section 25-314, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE25-314.Pleadings; contents; defense; joinder of parties;
confidentiality
A.The verified petition in a proceeding for
dissolution of marriage or legal separation shall allege that the marriage is
irretrievably broken or that one or both of the parties desire to live separate
and apart, or, if the marriage is a covenant marriage, any of the grounds
prescribed in section 25903 or 25904, whichever is appropriate,
and shall set forth:
1.The birth date, occupation and address of each
party and the length of domicile in this state.
2.The date of the marriage, the place at which it
was performed and whether the marriage is a covenant marriage.
3.The names, birth dates and addresses of all
living children, natural or adopted, common to the parties and whether the wife either party to the marriage is pregnant.
4.The details of any agreements between the parties
as to support, custody and parenting time of the children and maintenance of a
spouse.
5.The relief sought.
B.Either party to
the marriage may initiate the proceeding.
C.The only defense
to a petition for the dissolution of a marriage or legal separation is that the
marriage is not irretrievably broken.If the marriage is a covenant
marriage, it is a defense that none of the grounds alleged for a dissolution of
marriage or legal separation prescribed in section 25903 or 25904
are met.
D.The court may join additional parties necessary
for the exercise of its authority.
E.This section does not require a victim of
domestic violence or a resident of a domestic violence shelter as defined in
section 363001 to divulge the person's address, except that a means of
communicating with the resident, such as a post office box or address of the
person's attorney, must be disclosed. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Section 25-1060, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE25-1060.Hearing and order
A.Unless the court issues a temporary emergency
order in accordance with section 251034, on a finding that a petitioner
is entitled to immediate physical custody of the child, the court shall order
that the petitioner may take immediate physical custody of the child unless the
respondent establishes that either of the following is true:
1.The child custody determination has not been
registered and confirmed under section 251053
251055 and that any of the following is
true:
(a)The issuing court did not have jurisdiction
under article 2 of this chapter.
(b)The child custody determination for which
enforcement is sought has been vacated, stayed or modified by a court of a
state having jurisdiction to do so under article 2 of this chapter.
(c)The respondent was entitled to notice, but
notice was not given in accordance with section 251008, in the
proceedings before the court that issued the order for which enforcement is
sought.
2.The child custody determination for which
enforcement is sought was registered and confirmed under section 251055
but has been vacated, stayed or modified by a court of a state having
jurisdiction to do so under article 2 of this chapter.
B.The court shall award the fees, costs and
expenses authorized under section 251062, may grant additional relief,
including a request for the assistance of law enforcement officials, and may
set a further hearing to determine whether additional relief is appropriate.
C.If a party called to testify refuses to answer on
the ground that the testimony may be selfincriminating, the court may
draw an adverse inference from the refusal.
D.A privilege
against disclosure of communications between spouses and a defense of immunity
based on the spousal relationship or the
relationship of husband and wife or
parent and child shall not be invoked in a proceeding under this article. END_STATUTE
Sec.26.Section 25-1256, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE25-1256.Special rules of evidence and procedure
A.The physical presence of a nonresident party who
is an individual in a tribunal of this state is not required for the
establishment, enforcement or modification of a support order or the rendition
of a judgment determining parentage of a child.
B.An affidavit, a document substantially complying
with federally mandated forms or a document incorporated by reference in any
affidavit or mandated form that would not be excluded under the hearsay rule if
given in person is admissible in evidence if given under penalty of perjury by
a party or witness residing outside this state.
C.A copy of the record of child support payments
certified as a true copy of the original by the custodian of the record may be
forwarded to a responding tribunal.The copy is evidence of facts
asserted in it and is admissible to show whether payments were made.
D.Copies of bills for testing for parentage of a
child and for prenatal and postnatal health care of the mother and child
furnished to the adverse party at least ten days before trial are admissible in
evidence to prove the amount of the charges billed and that the charges were
reasonable, necessary and customary.
E.Documentary evidence transmitted from outside
this state to a tribunal of this state by telephone, fax or other electronic
means that do not provide an original record shall not be excluded from
evidence on an objection based on the means of transmission.
F.In a proceeding under this chapter, a tribunal of
this state shall permit a party or witness residing outside this state to be
deposed or to testify under penalty of perjury by telephone, audiovisual means
or other electronic means at a designated tribunal or other
location.A tribunal of this state shall cooperate with other
tribunals in designating an appropriate location for the deposition or
testimony.
G.If a party called to testify at a civil hearing
refuses to answer on the ground that the testimony may be selfincriminating,
the trier of fact may draw an adverse inference from the refusal.
H.A privilege against disclosure of communications
between spouses does not apply in a proceeding under this chapter.
I.The defense of immunity based on the spousal relationship or the relationship
of husband and wife or
parent and child does not apply in a proceeding under this chapter.
J.A voluntary acknowledgment of paternity,
certified as a true copy, is admissible to establish parentage of the child. END_STATUTE
Sec.27.Section 32-2101, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE32-2101.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Acting in concert" means evidence of
collaborating to pursue a concerted plan.
2."Advertising" means the attempt by
publication, dissemination, exhibition, solicitation or circulation, oral or
written, or for broadcast on radio or television to induce directly or
indirectly any person to enter into any obligation or acquire any title or
interest in lands subject to this chapter including the land sales contract to
be used and any photographs, drawings or artist's presentations of physical
conditions or facilities existing or to exist on the property. Advertising
does not include:
(a)Press releases or other communications delivered
to newspapers, periodicals or other news media for general information or
public relations purposes if no charge is made by the newspapers, periodicals
or other news media for the publication or use of any part of these communications.
(b)Communications to stockholders as follows:
(i)Annual reports and interim financial reports.
(ii)Proxy materials.
(iii)Registration statements.
(iv)Securities prospectuses.
(v)Applications for listing of securities on stock
exchanges.
(vi)Prospectuses.
(vii)Property reports.
(viii)Offering statements.
3."Affiliate" means a person who,
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with the person specified.
4."Associate broker" means a licensed
broker who is employed by
another broker. Unless otherwise specifically provided, an associate broker
has the same license privileges as a salesperson. 
5."Barrier" means a natural or man-made
geographical feature that prevents parcels of land from being practicably,
reasonably and economically united or reunited and that was not caused or
created by the owner of the parcels.
6."Blanket encumbrance" means any
mortgage, any deed of trust or any other encumbrance or lien securing or
evidencing the payment of money and affecting more than one lot or parcel of
subdivided land, or an agreement affecting more than one lot or parcel by which
the subdivider holds the subdivision under an option, contract to sell or trust
agreement.Blanket encumbrance does not include taxes and
assessments that are levied
by public authority.
7."Board" means the state real estate
advisory board.
8."Broker", when used without
modification, means a person who is licensed as a broker under this chapter or
who is required to be licensed as a broker under this chapter.
9."Business broker" means a real estate
broker who acts as an intermediary or agent between sellers or buyers, or both,
in the sale or purchase, or both, of businesses or business opportunities where
a lease or sale of real property is either a direct or incidental part of the
transaction.
10."Camping site" means a space that is designed and promoted
for the purpose of locating any trailer, tent, tent trailer, pickup camper or
other similar device used for camping.
11."Cemetery" or "cemetery
property" means any one, or a combination of more than one, of the
following in a place that is used,
or intended to be used, and dedicated for cemetery purposes:
(a)A burial park, for earth interments.
(b)A mausoleum, for crypt or vault entombments.
(c)A crematory, or a crematory and columbarium, for
cinerary interments.
(d)A cemetery plot, including interment rights,
mausoleum crypts, niches and burial spaces.
12."Cemetery broker" means a person other
than a real estate broker or real estate salesperson who, for another, for
compensation:
(a)Sells, leases or exchanges cemetery property or
interment services of or for another, or on the person's own account.
(b)Offers for another or for the person's own
account to buy, sell, lease or exchange cemetery property or interment
services.
(c)Negotiates the purchase and sale, lease or
exchange of cemetery property or interment services.
(d)Negotiates the purchase or sale, lease or exchange,
or lists or solicits, or negotiates a loan on or leasing of cemetery property
or interment services.
13."Cemetery salesperson" means a natural
person who acts on the person's own behalf or through and on behalf of a
professional limited liability company or a professional corporation engaged by
or on behalf of a licensed cemetery or real estate broker, or through and on
behalf of a corporation, partnership or limited liability company that is
licensed as a cemetery or real estate broker, to perform any act or transaction
included in the definition of cemetery broker.
14."Commissioner" means the state real
estate commissioner.
15."Common promotional plan" means a
plan, undertaken by a person or a group of persons acting in concert, to offer
lots for sale or lease.If the land is offered for sale by a person
or group of persons acting in concert, and the land is contiguous or is known,
designated or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, the land is
presumed, without regard to the number of lots covered by each individual
offering, as being offered for sale or lease as part of a common promotional
plan.Separate subdividers selling lots or parcels in separately
platted subdivisions within a master planned community shall not be deemed to
be offering their combined lots for sale or lease as part of a common
promotional plan.
16."Compensation" means any fee,
commission, salary, money or other valuable consideration for services that is rendered or to be
rendered as well as the promise of consideration whether contingent or not.
17."Contiguous" means lots, parcels or
fractional interests that share a common boundary or point.Lots,
parcels or fractional interests are not contiguous if they are separated by
either of the following:
(a)A barrier.
(b)A road, street or highway that has been
established by this state or by any agency or political subdivision of this
state, that has been designated by the federal government as an interstate
highway or that has been regularly maintained by this state or by any agency or
political subdivision of this state and has been used continuously by the
public for at least the last five years.
18."Control" or "controlled"
means a person who, through ownership, voting rights, power of attorney, proxy,
management rights, operational rights or other rights, has the right to make
decisions binding on an entity, whether a corporation, a partnership or any
other entity.
19."Corporation licensee" means a
lawfully organized corporation that is registered with the Arizona corporation
commission and that has an officer licensed as the designated broker pursuant
to section 322125.
20."Department" means the state real
estate department.
21."Designated broker" means the natural
person who is licensed as a broker under this chapter and who is either:
(a)Designated to act on behalf of an employing real
estate, cemetery or membership camping entity.
(b)Doing business as a sole proprietor.
22."Developer" means a person who offers
real property in a development for sale, lease or use, either immediately or in
the future, on the person's own behalf or on behalf of another person, under
this chapter. Developer does not include a person whose involvement with a
development is limited to the listing of property within the development for
sale, lease or use.
23."Development" means any division,
proposed division or use of real property that the department has authority to
regulate, including subdivided and unsubdivided lands, cemeteries,
condominiums, timeshares, membership campgrounds and stock cooperatives.
24."Employing broker" means a person who
is licensed or is required to be licensed as a:
(a)Broker entity pursuant to section 322125,
subsection A.
(b)Sole proprietorship if the sole proprietor is a
broker licensed pursuant to this chapter.
25."Fractional interest" means an
undivided interest in improved or unimproved land, lots or parcels of any size
created for the purpose of sale or lease and evidenced by any receipt,
certificate, deed or other document conveying the interest. Undivided
interests in land, lots or parcels created in the names of a husband and wife both spouses as community property, joint
tenants or tenants in common, or in the names of other persons who, acting
together as part of a single transaction, acquire the interests without a
purpose to divide the interests for present or future sale or lease, shall be deemed to constitute
only one fractional interest.
26."Improved lot or parcel" means a lot
or parcel of a subdivision upon
on which lot or parcel
there is a residential, commercial or industrial building or concerning which a
contract has been entered into between a subdivider and a purchaser that
obligates the subdivider directly, or indirectly through a building contractor,
to complete construction of a residential, commercial or industrial building on
the lot or parcel within two years from the date on which the contract of sale
for the lot is entered into.
27."Inactive license" means a license that is issued pursuant to
article 2 of this chapter to a licensee who is on inactive status during the
current license period and who is not engaged by or on behalf of a broker.
28."Lease" or "leasing"
includes any lease, whether it is the sole, the principal or any incidental part
of a transaction.
29."License" means the whole or part of
any agency permit, certificate, approval, registration, public report, charter
or similar form of permission required by this chapter.
30."License period" means the two year twoyear period beginning with the date
of original issue or renewal of a particular license and ending on the
expiration date, if any.
31."Licensee" means a person to whom a
license for the current license period has been granted under any provision of
this chapter, and, for purposes of section 322153, subsection A, shall
include original license applicants.
32."Limited liability company licensee"
means a lawfully organized limited liability company that has a member or
manager who is a natural person and who is licensed as the designated broker
pursuant to section 322125.
33."Lot reservation" means an expression
of interest by a prospective purchaser in buying at some time in the future a
subdivided or unsubdivided lot, unit or parcel in this state.In all
cases, a subsequent affirmative action by the prospective purchaser must be
taken to create a contractual obligation to purchase.
34."Master planned community" means a
development that consists of two or more separately platted subdivisions and
that is either subject to a master declaration of covenants, conditions or
restrictions, is subject to restrictive covenants sufficiently uniform in
character to clearly indicate a general scheme for improvement or development
of real property or is governed or administered by a master owner's
association.
35."Member" means a member of the real
estate advisory board.
36."Membership camping broker" means a
person, other than a salesperson, who, for compensation:
(a)Sells, purchases, lists, exchanges or leases
membership camping contracts.
(b)Offers to sell, purchase, exchange or lease
membership camping contracts.
(c)Negotiates or offers, attempts or agrees to
negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or lease of membership camping
contracts.
(d)Advertises or holds himself out as being engaged
in the business of selling, buying, exchanging or leasing membership camping
contracts or counseling or advising regarding membership camping contracts.
(e)Assists or directs in the procuring of prospects
calculated or intended to result in the sale, purchase, listing, exchange or
lease of membership camping contracts.
(f)Performs any of the foregoing acts as an
employee or on behalf of a membership camping operator or membership contract
owner.
37."Membership camping contract" means an
agreement that is offered
or sold in this state evidencing a purchaser's right or license to use the
camping or outdoor recreation facilities of a membership camping operator and
includes a membership that provides for this use.
38."Membership camping operator" means an
enterprise, other than one that is tax exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, that solicits membership paid for by
a fee or periodic payments and has as one of its purposes camping or outdoor
recreation, including the
use of camping sites primarily by members.Membership camping
operator does not include camping or recreational trailer parks that are open
to the general public and that contain camping sites rented for a per use fee or
a mobile home park.
39."Membership camping salesperson" means
a natural person who acts on the person's own behalf or through and on behalf
of a professional limited liability company or a professional corporation
engaged by or on behalf of a licensed membership camping or real estate broker,
or by or on behalf of a corporation, partnership or limited liability company
that is licensed as a membership camping or real estate broker, to perform any
act or participate in any transaction in a manner included in the definition of
membership camping broker.
40."Partnership licensee" means a
partnership with a managing general partner who is licensed as the designated
broker pursuant to section 322125.
41."Permanent access", as required under
article 4 of this chapter, means permanent access from the subdivision to any
federal, state or county highway.
42."Perpetual or endowedcare
cemetery" means a cemetery wherein lots or other burial spaces are sold or
transferred under the representation that the cemetery will receive
"perpetual" or "endowed" care as defined in this section
free of further cost to the purchaser after payment of the original purchase
price for the lot, burial space or interment right.
43."Perpetualcare" or
"endowedcare" means the maintenance and care of all places
where interments have been made of the trees, shrubs, roads, streets and other
improvements and embellishments contained within or forming a part of the
cemetery. This shall not include the maintenance or repair of monuments,
tombs, copings or other manmade ornaments as associated with individual
burial spaces.
44."Person" means any individual,
corporation, partnership or company and any other form of multiple organization
for carrying on business, foreign or domestic.
45."Private cemetery" means a cemetery or
place that is not licensed under article 6 of this chapter, where burials or
interments of human remains are made, in which sales or transfers of interment
rights or burial plots are not made to the public and in which not more than
ten interments or burials occur annually.
46."Promotion" or "promotional
practice" means advertising and any other act, practice, device or scheme
to induce directly or indirectly any person to enter into any obligation or
acquire any title or interest in or use of real property subject to this
chapter, including meetings with prospective purchasers, arrangements for
prospective purchasers to visit real property, travel allowances and discount,
exchange, refund and cancellation privileges.
47."Real estate" includes leaseholdinterests
and any estates in land as defined in title 33, chapter 2, articles 1 and 2,
regardless of whether located in this state.
48."Real estate broker" means a person,
other than a salesperson, who, for another and for compensation:
(a)Sells, exchanges, purchases, rents or leases
real estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests.
(b)Offers to sell, exchange, purchase, rent or
lease real estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare
interests.
(c)Negotiates or offers, attempts or agrees to
negotiate the sale, exchange, purchase, rental or leasing of real estate,
businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests.
(d)Lists or offers, attempts or agrees to list real
estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests for sale,
lease or exchange.
(e)Auctions or offers, attempts or agrees to
auction real estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare
interests.
(f)Buys, sells, offers
to buy or sell or otherwise deals in options on real estate, businesses and
business opportunities or timeshare interests or improvements to real estate,
businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests.
(g)Collects or offers, attempts or agrees to
collect rent for the use of real estate, businesses and business opportunities
or timeshare interests.
(h)Advertises or holds himself out as being engaged
in the business of buying, selling, exchanging, renting or leasing real estate,
businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests or counseling or
advising regarding real estate, businesses and business opportunities or
timeshare interests.
(i)Assists or directs in the procuring of
prospects, calculated to result in the sale, exchange, leasing or rental of
real estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare interests.
(j)Assists or directs in the negotiation of any
transaction calculated or intended to result in the sale, exchange, leasing or
rental of real estate, businesses and business opportunities or timeshare
interests.
(k)Incident to the sale of real estate, businesses
and business opportunities negotiates or offers, attempts or agrees to
negotiate a loan secured or to be secured by any mortgage or other encumbrance upon on or transfer of real estate, businesses and
business opportunities or timeshare interests subject to section 322155,
subsection C. This subdivision does not apply to mortgage brokers as defined
in and subject to title 6, chapter 9, article 1.
(l)Engages in the business of assisting or offering
to assist another in filing an application for the purchase or lease of, or in
locating or entering upon on, lands owned by the state
or federal government.
(m)Claims, demands, charges, receives, collects or
contracts for the collection of an advance fee in connection with any
employment enumerated in this section, including employment undertaken to
promote the sale or lease of real property by advance fee listing, by
furnishing rental information to a prospective tenant for a fee paid by the
prospective tenant, by advertisement or by any other offering to sell, lease,
exchange or rent real property or selling kits connected
therewith.This shall not include the activities of any communications
media of general circulation or coverage not primarily engaged in the
advertisement of real estate or any communications media activities that are
specifically exempt from applicability of this article under section 322121.
(n)Engages in any of the acts listed in
subdivisions (a) through (m) of this paragraph for the sale or lease of other
than real property if a real property sale or lease is a part of, contingent on
or ancillary to the transaction.
(o)Performs any of the acts listed in subdivisions
(a) through (m) of this paragraph as an employee of, or in behalf of, the owner
of real estate, or interest in the real estate, or improvements affixed on the
real estate, for compensation.
(p)Acts as a business broker.
49."Real estate sales contract" means an
agreement in which one party agrees to convey title to real estate to another
party upon on the satisfaction of specified conditions
set forth in the contract.
50."Real estate salesperson" means a
natural person who acts on the person's own behalf or through and on behalf of
a professional limited liability company or a professional corporation engaged
by or on behalf of a licensed real estate broker, or by or on behalf of a
limited liability company, partnership or corporation that is licensed as a
real estate broker, to perform any act or participate in any transaction in a
manner included in the definition of real estate broker subject to section 322155.
51."Sale" or "lease" includes
every disposition, transfer, option or offer or attempt to dispose of or
transfer real property, or an interest, use or estate in the real property,
including the offering of the property as a prize or gift if a monetary charge
or consideration for whatever purpose is required.
52."Salesperson", when used without
modification, means a natural person who acts on the person's own behalf or
through and on behalf of a professional limited liability company or a
professional corporation licensed under this chapter or any person required to
be licensed as a salesperson under this chapter.
53."School" means a person or entity that
offers a course of study towards completion of the education requirements
leading to licensure or renewal of licensure under this chapter.
54."Stock cooperative" means a
corporation to which all of the following apply:
(a)The corporation is formed or used to hold title
to improved real property in fee simple or for a term of years.
(b)All or substantially all of the shareholders of
the corporation each receive a right of exclusive occupancy in a portion of the
real property to which the corporation holds title.
(c)The right of occupancy may only be transferred
with the concurrent transfer of the shares of stock in the corporation held by
the person having the right of occupancy.
55."Subdivider" means any person who
offers for sale or lease six or more lots, parcels or fractional interests in a
subdivision or who causes land to be subdivided into a subdivision for the
subdivider or for others, or who undertakes to develop a subdivision, but does
not include a public agency or officer authorized by law to create
subdivisions.
56."Subdivision" or "subdivided
lands":
(a)Means improved or unimproved land or lands
divided or proposed to be divided for the purpose of sale or lease, whether immediate
or future, into six or more lots, parcels or fractional interests.
(b)Includes a stock cooperative, lands divided or
proposed to be divided as part of a common promotional plan and residential
condominiums as defined in title 33, chapter 9.
(c)Does not include:
(i)Leasehold offerings of one year or less.
(ii)The division or proposed division of land
located in this state into lots or parcels each of which is or will be thirtysix
acres or more in area including to the centerline of dedicated roads or
easements, if any, contiguous to the lot or parcel.
(iii)The leasing of agricultural lands or
apartments, offices, stores, hotels, motels, pads or similar space within an
apartment building, industrial building, rental recreational vehicle community,
rental manufactured home community, rental mobile home park or commercial
building.
(iv)The subdivision into or development of parcels,
plots or fractional portions within the boundaries of a cemetery that has been
formed and approved pursuant to this chapter.
(v)A sale or lease of a lot, parcel or fractional
interest that occurs ten or more years after the sale or lease of another lot,
parcel or fractional interest if the other lot, parcel or fractional interest
is not subject to this article and is treated as an independent parcel unless, upon on investigation by the commissioner, there is
evidence of intent to subdivide.
57."Timeshare" or "timeshare
property" means real property ownership or right of occupancy in real
property pursuant to article 9 of this chapter. For the purposes of this
chapter, a timeshare is not a security unless it meets the definition of a
security under section 441801.
58."Trustee" means:
(a)A person who
is designated under section 322194.27 to act as a trustee
for an endowmentcare cemetery fund.
(b)A person holding bare legal title to real
property under a subdivision trust.A trustee shall not be deemed to
be a developer, subdivider, broker or salesperson within this chapter.
59."Unimproved lot or parcel" means a lot
or parcel of a subdivision that is not an improved lot or parcel.
60."Unsubdivided lands":
(a)Means land or lands divided or proposed to be
divided for the purpose of sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into six
or more lots, parcels or fractional interests and the lots or parcels are
thirtysix acres or more each but less than one hundred sixty acres each,
or that are offered, known or advertised under a common promotional plan for
sale or lease, except that agricultural leases shall not be included in this
definition.
(b)Includes any land that is sold that would
otherwise constitute the sixth lot, parcel or fractional interest if the sale
occurs ten or more years after the earliest of the previous five sales and if
all of the sales consist of property that was originally contained within the
same parcel that is thirtysix acres or more and less than one hundred
sixty acres. END_STATUTE
Sec.28.Section 33-405, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-405.Beneficiary deeds; recording; definitions
A.A deed that conveys an interest in real property,
including any debt secured by a lien on real property, to a grantee beneficiary
designated by the owner and that expressly states that the deed is effective on
the death of the owner transfers the interest to the designated grantee
beneficiary effective on the death of the owner subject to all conveyances,
assignments, contracts, mortgages, deeds of trust, liens, security pledges and
other encumbrances made by the owner or to which the owner was subject during
the owner's lifetime.
B.A beneficiary deed may designate multiple
grantees who take title as joint tenants with right of survivorship, tenants in
common, a husband and wife married couple as community
property or as community property with right of survivorship, or any other
tenancy that is valid under the laws of this state.
C.A beneficiary deed may designate a successor
grantee beneficiary.If the beneficiary deed designates a successor
grantee beneficiary, the deed shall state the condition on which the interest
of the successor grantee beneficiary would vest.
D.If real property is owned as joint tenants with
the right of survivorship or as community property with the right of
survivorship, a deed that conveys an interest in the real property to a grantee
beneficiary designated by all of the then surviving owners and that expressly
states that the deed is effective on the death of the last surviving owner
transfers the interest to the designated grantee beneficiary effective on the
death of the last surviving owner.If a beneficiary deed is executed
by fewer than all of the owners of real property owned as joint tenants with
right of survivorship or community property with right of survivorship, the
beneficiary deed is valid if the last surviving owner is one of the persons who
executes the beneficiary deed.If the last surviving owner did not
execute the beneficiary deed, the transfer shall lapse and the deed is
void.An estate in joint tenancy with right of survivorship or
community property with right of survivorship is not affected by the execution
of a beneficiary deed that is executed by fewer than all of the owners of the
real property, and the rights of a surviving joint tenant with right of
survivorship or a surviving spouse in community property with right of
survivorship shall prevail over a grantee beneficiary named in a beneficiary
deed.
E.A beneficiary deed is valid only if the deed is
executed and recorded as provided by law in the office of the county recorder
of the county in which the property is located before the death of the owner or
the last surviving owner. A beneficiary deed may be used to transfer an
interest in real property to the trustee of a trust even if the trust is
revocable.
F.A beneficiary deed may be revoked at any time by
the owner or, if there is more than one owner, by any of the owners who
executed the beneficiary deed. To be effective, the revocation must be
executed and recorded as provided by law in the office of the county recorder
of the county in which the real property is located before the death of the
owner who executes the revocation. If the real property is owned as joint
tenants with right of survivorship or community property with right of
survivorship and if the revocation is not executed by all the owners, the
revocation is not effective unless executed by the last surviving owner.
G.If an owner executes and records more than one
beneficiary deed concerning the same real property, the last beneficiary deed
that is recorded before the owner's death is the effective beneficiary deed.
H.This section does not prohibit other methods of
conveying property that are permitted by law and that have the effect of
postponing enjoyment of an interest in real property until the death of the
owner. This section does not invalidate any deed otherwise effective by law to
convey title to the interests and estates provided in the deed that is not
recorded until after the death of the owner.
I.The signature, consent or agreement of or notice
to a grantee beneficiary of a beneficiary deed is not required for any purpose
during the lifetime of the owner.
J.A beneficiary deed that is executed, acknowledged
and recorded in accordance with this section is not revoked by the provisions
of a will.
K.A beneficiary deed is sufficient if it complies
with other applicable laws and if it is in substantially the following form:
Beneficiary Deed
I (we) _________________________ (owner) hereby convey to
___________________________ (grantee beneficiary) effective on my (our) death
the following described real property:
(Legal
description)
If a grantee beneficiary predeceases the owner, the
conveyance to that grantee beneficiary shall either (choose one):
[] Become null and void.
[] Become part of the estate of the grantee beneficiary.
_________________________
(Signature of grantor(s))
(acknowledgment).
L.The instrument of revocation shall be sufficient
if it complies with other applicable laws and is in substantially the following
form:
Revocation
of Beneficiary Deed
The undersigned hereby revokes
the beneficiary deed recorded on ___________ (date), in docket or book
______________ at page ________, or instrument number ____________, records of
________________ county, Arizona.
Dated:
_______________________
______________________________
Signature
(acknowledgment).
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Beneficiary deed" means a deed
authorized under this section.
2."Owner" means any person who executes a
beneficiary deed as provided in this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.29.Section 33-431, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-431.Grants and devises to two or more persons; estates in
common; community property with right of survivorship; joint tenants with right
of survivorship
A.Except as otherwise provided in this section, all
grants and devises of real property made to two or more persons create estates
in common and not in joint tenancy, except grants or devises in trust, or to
executors, or to husband and wife a married couple.
B.A grant or devise to two or more persons may by
express words vest the estate in the survivor on the death of a grantee or
devisee when expressly declared in the grant, transfer or devise to be a joint
tenancy with right of survivorship.An estate in joint tenancy with
right of survivorship may also be created by grant or transfer from a sole
owner to himself and others, or from two or more owners to themselves or to one
or more of them and others.
C.A grant or devise to a husband and wife married couple may by express words vest the
estate in the surviving spouse on the death of one of the spouses when
expressly declared in the grant, transfer or devise to be an estate in
community property with right of survivorship.An estate in
community property with right of survivorship may also be created by grant or
transfer from a husband and wife married couple, when holding
title as community property or otherwise, to themselves or from either husband or wife spouse to both husband and wife spouses.
D.In the case of real property owned by a husband and wife married couple as community property with
right of survivorship, the right of survivorship is extinguished as provided in
section 142804 or on the recordation in the office of the recorder of
the county or counties where the real property is located of an affidavit entitled "affidavit
terminating right of survivorship" executed by either spouse under oath
that sets forth a stated intent by the spouse to terminate the survivorship
right, a description of the instrument by which the right of survivorship was
created including the date the instrument was recorded and the county
recorder's book and page or instrument reference number and the legal
description of the real property affected by the affidavit.The
recordation shall not extinguish the community interest of either spouse.
E.In the case of real property owned as joint
tenants with right of survivorship, the right of survivorship is extinguished
as provided in section 142804 or on the recordation in the office of the
recorder of the county or counties where the real property is located of an affidavit entitled
"affidavit terminating right of survivorship" executed by any joint
tenant under oath that sets forth a stated intent by that joint tenant to
terminate the survivorship right, a description of the instrument by which the
right of survivorship was created including the date the instrument was
recorded and the county recorder's book and page or instrument reference number
and the legal description of the real property affected by the affidavit. If
there are more than two joint tenants, the recordation of the affidavit shall
extinguish only the joint tenancy and survivorship right of the person who
executes the affidavit, and the joint tenancy and survivorship right shall
continue among all remaining joint tenants who have not executed an affidavit
of termination.
F.With respect to a deceased joint tenant, the
termination or extinguishment by death of that tenant's joint tenancy with
right of survivorship may be evidenced by the recordation of both of the
following items in the office of the recorder of the county or counties where
the real property is located:
1.An affidavit executed by one or more of the
surviving joint tenants that includes the name of the deceased joint tenant,
the date of death of the deceased joint tenant, a description of the instrument
by which the right of survivorship was created including the date the
instrument was recorded and the county recorder's book and page or instrument
reference number, the legal description of the real property affected by the
affidavit, and the cause of death of the deceased joint tenant.
2.An attached death certificate of the deceased
joint tenant. END_STATUTE
Sec.30.Section 33-452, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-452.Conveyance of community property
A conveyance or incumbrance encumbrance of community
property is not valid unless executed and acknowledged by both husband and wife spouses, except unpatented mining claims which that may be conveyed or incumbered encumbered by the spouse having the title or
right of possession without the other spouse joining in the conveyance or incumbrance encumbrance. END_STATUTE
Sec.31.Section 33-454, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-454.Power of attorney from one spouse to the other to execute
instruments relating to property
Either husband or wife
spouse may authorize the
other by power of attorney, executed and acknowledged in the manner conveyances
of real property are executed and acknowledged, to execute, acknowledge and
deliver, in his or her that spouse's name and behalf,
any conveyance, mortgage or other instrument affecting the separate or
community property or any interest therein of the spouse executing the power of
attorney. END_STATUTE
Sec.32.Section 33-457, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE33-457.Fraudulent representation by married person of ability to
convey realty; violation; classification
A married person who falsely and fraudulently represents himself or herself that person as competent to
sell or mortgage real estate, when the validity of the sale or mortgage
requires the assent or concurrence of the wife or husband
other spouse, and, under such
the representations,
knowingly conveys or mortgages the real estate, is guilty of a class 5 felony. END_STATUTE
Sec.33.Section 36-832, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-832.Authorization for postmortem examination
A.In addition to the provisions set forth in
section 11597, whichever of the following assumes custody of the body for
purposes of burial may give permission to a licensed physician to conduct a
postmortem examination:
1.Father.
2.Mother.
3.Husband Spouse.
4.Wife.
5.4.Adult child.
6.5.Guardian.
7.6.Next of kin.
B.In the absence of any of the persons named in
subsection A of this section, a friend or one charged with the responsibility
of burial may give permission to a licensed physician to conduct a postmortem
examination. END_STATUTE
Sec.34.Section 42-2079, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-2079.Suspension of liabilities by reason of disasters,
terroristic or military actions or states of emergency; definitions
A.Notwithstanding sections 421107 and 421123,
the director shall specify a period of up to one year to extend any due date
and suspend any penalty or interest that would ordinarily accrue during that
time for any affected taxpayer in any of the following circumstances:
1.Section 7508A of the internal revenue code
relating to disasters and terroristic and military actions applies.
2.The governor has declared a state of emergency
pursuant to section 26303, subsection D.
B.Notwithstanding section 421123, interest
shall not accrue on any unpaid tax during the time determined under subsection
A of this section for any affected taxpayer.
C.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Affected
taxpayer" means:
(a)An individual
whose principal residence is located in a covered area.
(b)A business entity or sole proprietor whose
principal place of business is located in a covered area.
(c)An individual who is a relief worker affiliated
with a recognized government or philanthropic organization and who is assisting
in a covered area.
(d)An individual, business entity or sole
proprietor whose records necessary to meet a tax filing or paying deadline are
maintained in a covered area.
(e)The spouse of an affected taxpayer, solely with
regard to a joint return of the husband
and wife married couple.
(f)Any other person determined by the director to
be affected pursuant to subsection A of this section.
2."Covered area" means a geographical
area to which subsection A of this section applies. END_STATUTE
Sec.35.Section 43-301, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-301.Individual returns; definition
A.An individual whose income is taxable under this
title shall file a return with the department if, for the taxable year, the
individual has any of the following:
1.An Arizona adjusted gross income of five thousand
five hundred dollars or over, if single or married filing a separate return.
2.An Arizona adjusted gross income of eleven
thousand dollars or over, if married filing a joint return pursuant to section
43309.
3.A gross income of fifteen thousand dollars or
over, regardless of the amount of taxable income.
B.In the case of a husband and wife married couple, the spouse who controls the
disposition of or who receives or spends community income as well as the spouse
who is taxable on such income is liable for the payment of taxes imposed by
this title on such income.If a joint return is filed, the liability
for the tax on the aggregate income is joint and several.
C.This section applies regardless of whether an
individual is required to file a return under the internal revenue code or
whether the individual has any federal adjusted gross income for the taxable
year.
D.For the purposes of this section, "gross
income" means gross income as defined in the internal revenue code minus
income included in gross income but excluded from taxation under this title. END_STATUTE
Sec.36.Section 43-309, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-309.Joint returns of a married couple
If a husband and wife are
each spouse is required
to file a return pursuant to section 43301, they may file a joint return
under the following conditions:
1.No
a joint return shall not be made if husband and wife have each spouse has a different taxable years year.If such taxable years begin
on the same day and end on different days because of the death of either or of
both, then the joint return may be made with respect to the taxable year of
each.Such exception shall not apply if the surviving spouse
remarried before the close of his
that spouse's taxable year,
nor if the taxable year of either spouse is a fractional part of a year under
section 43931, subsection A.
2.In the case of the death of one or both spouses, the joint return with respect
to the decedent may be made only by his
the executor or administrator,
except that in the case of the death of one spouse the joint return may be made
by the surviving spouse with respect to both himself the
surviving spouse and the decedent if all of the following apply:
(a)No return for the taxable year has been made by
the decedent.
(b)No executor or administrator has been appointed.
(c)No executor or administrator is appointed before
the last day prescribed by law for filing the return of the surviving
spouse.If an executor or administrator of the decedent is appointed
after the making of the joint return by the surviving spouse, the executor or
administrator may disaffirm such joint return by making, within one year after
the last day prescribed by law for filing the return of the surviving spouse, a
separate return for the taxable year of the decedent with respect to which the
joint return was made, in which case the return made by the survivor shall
constitute his the surviving spouse's separate
return.
3.For the purposes
of this section, the status as husband
and wife a married couple
of two individuals having taxable years beginning on the same day
shall be determined:
(a)If both have the same taxable year, as of the
close of such year.
(b)If one dies before the close of the taxable year
of the other, as of the time of such death. END_STATUTE
Sec.37.Section 43-310, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-310.Separate returns after filing joint returns
A.If a husband
and wife have married
couple has filed a joint return for a taxable year for which
separate returns could have been made by them under section 43309, and
the time prescribed by this title for filing the return for such taxable year
has expired, the spouses may nevertheless make separate returns for such
taxable year.Separate returns filed by the spouses in such a case
shall constitute their returns for such taxable year, and all payments,
credits, refunds or other repayments made or allowed with respect to the joint
return for such taxable year shall be taken into account in determining the
extent to which the taxes based on the separate returns have been paid.
B.Separate returns may be filed under subsection A
of this section only if there is paid in full all of the following, at or
before the time of filing such returns:
1.All amounts previously assessed with respect to
both spouses for such taxable year.
2.All amounts shown as the tax by the spouses upon
their joint return for such taxable year.
3.Any amount determined, at the time of the filing
of the separate returns, as a deficiency with respect to the spouses for such
taxable year, if, prior to such a filing,
a notice of proposed deficiency under section 421108 has been mailed.
C.Separate returns may not be filed under
subsection A of this section:
1.After the expiration of four years from the last
date prescribed by this title for filing the return for such taxable year,
determined without regard to any extension of time granted for the filing of
the joint return.
2.After there has been mailed to the spouses, with
respect to such taxable year, a notice of deficiency under section 421108,
or if the spouses, as to such notice, appeal to the department under section 421251,
or appeal to the state board under section 421253.
3.After the spouses have commenced a suit in court
for the recovery of any part of the tax paid for the taxable year with respect
to the joint return.
4.After the spouses have entered into a closing
agreement under section 42-1113, with respect to such taxable year as to the
tax payable by the spouse under their joint return.
D.If separate returns are made under subsection A
of this section, any election, other than the election to file the joint
return, made by the spouses in their joint return for such taxable year with
respect to the treatment of any income, deduction or credit shall not be
changed in the making of the separate returns where such election would have
been irrevocable if the separate returns had not been filed.
E.If separate returns are made under subsection A
of this section after the death of either spouse, such return with respect to
the decedent may be made only by the decedent's personal representative.
F.Where the aggregate amount of the taxes shown by
the spouses on their separate returns filed pursuant to subsection A of this
section exceeds the tax shown on their joint return:
1.If any of such excess is attributable to
negligence or intentional disregard of rules and regulations of the department, but without
intent to defraud, at the time of making the joint return, then five per cent percent of the total amount of such excess on
each return shall be assessed, collected and paid as if it were a deficiency.
2.If any part of such excess is attributable to
fraud with intent to evade tax at the time of the making of the joint return,
then fifty per cent percent of the total amount of
such excess shall be so assessed, collected and paid, in lieu of the fifty per cent percent addition to the tax provided in
section 421125.
G.For the purposes of section 42-1104, relating to
periods of limitations upon assessment and collection, and for the purposes of
section 421125, subsection A, relating to delinquent returns, separate
returns made under this section shall be deemed to have been filed on the date
on which the joint return was filed.
H.For the purposes of section 421118,
relating to refunds and credits, separate returns made under this section shall
be deemed to have been filed on the last date prescribed by this title for
filing the return for such taxable year, determined without regard to any
extension of time granted for the filing of the joint return.
I.If separate returns are made under subsection A
of this section, the period of limitations provided in section 42-1104 on the
making of assessments and collecting taxes shall, with respect to such returns,
include one year immediately after the date of filing of such separate returns,
computed without regard to the provisions of subsection G of this section.
J.For the purposes of section 42-1125, relating to
penalties in the case of fraudulent returns, the term "return" includes a joint
return filed by spouses with respect to a taxable year for which separate
returns are made under subsection A of this section after the filing of such
joint return. END_STATUTE
Sec.38.Section 43-311, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-311.Joint return after filing separate return
A.If an individual has filed a separate return for
a taxable year for which the individual and spouse could have filed a joint
return under section 43-309, and the time prescribed by this title for filing
the return for such taxable year has expired, such individual and spouse may
nevertheless make a joint return for such taxable year.A joint
return filed by the husband and wife married couple for such
taxable year, and all payments, credits, refunds or other repayments made or
allowed with respect to the separate return of either spouse for such taxable
year, shall be taken into account in determining the extent to which the tax
based upon on the joint return has been paid.
B.A joint return may be made under subsection A of
this section only if there is paid in full at or before the time of the filing
of the joint return:
1.All amounts previously assessed with respect to
either spouse for such taxable year.
2.All amounts shown as the tax by either spouse upon his or her on that spouse's separate return for such
taxable year.
3.Any amount determined, at the time of the filing
of the joint return, as a proposed deficiency with respect to either spouse for
such taxable year if, prior to such filing, a notice under section 42-1108 of
such proposed deficiency has been mailed.
C.A joint return may
not be made under subsection A of this section:
1.After the
expiration of four years from the last date prescribed by law for filing the
return for such taxable year, determined without regard to any extension of
time granted to either spouse.
2.After there has been mailed to either spouse,
with respect to such taxable year, a notice of deficiency under section 42-1108,
if the spouse, as to such notice, appeals to the department under section
42-1251, or appeals to the state board under section 42-1253.
3.After either spouse has commenced a suit in any
court for the recovery of any part of the tax for such taxable year.
4.After either spouse has entered into a closing
agreement under section 42-1113, with respect to such taxable year.
D.If a joint return is made under subsection A of
this section, any election, other than the election to file a separate return,
made by either spouse in the separate return for such taxable year with respect
to the treatment of any income, deduction or credit of such spouse shall not be
changed in the making of the joint return where such election would have been
irrevocable if the joint return had not been made.
E.If a joint return is made under subsection A of
this section after the death of either spouse, such return with respect to the
decedent may be made only by the decedent's personal representative.
F.Where the amount shown as the tax by the husband and wife married couple on a joint return made under
subsection A of this section exceeds the aggregate of the amounts shown as the
tax upon on the separate return of each spouse:
1.If any part of such excess is attributable to
negligence or intentional disregard of rules and regulations, but without intent to defraud,
at the time of the making of such separate return, then five per cent percent of the total amount of such excess shall be
assessed, collected and paid as if it were a deficiency.
2.If any part of such excess is attributable to
fraud with intent to evade tax at the time of the making of such separate
return, then fifty per cent
percent of the total
amount of such excess shall be so assessed, collected and paid in lieu of the
fifty per cent percent addition to the tax
provided in section 421125.
G.For the purposes of section 42-1104, relating to
periods of limitations upon assessment and collection, and for the purposes of
section 421125, subsection A, relating to delinquent returns, a joint
return made under this section shall be deemed to have been filed:
1.Where both spouses filed separate returns prior
to making the joint return, on the date the last separate return was filed, but
not earlier than the last date prescribed by this title for filing the return
of either spouse.
2.Where one spouse filed a separate return prior to
the making of the joint return, and the other spouse had less than one thousand
dollars of taxable income and less than five thousand dollars of gross income
for such taxable year, on the date of the filing of such separate return, but
not earlier than the last date prescribed by law for the filing of such
separate return.
3.Where only one spouse filed a separate return
prior to the making of a joint return and the other spouse had a taxable income
of more than one thousand dollars or a gross income of more than five thousand
dollars for such taxable year, on the date of the filing of such joint return.
H.For the purposes of section 42-1118, relating to
refunds and credits, a joint return made under this section shall be deemed to
have been filed on the last date prescribed by this title for filing the return
for such taxable year, determined without regard to any extension of time
granted to either spouse.
I.If a joint return is made under subsection A of
this section, the period of limitations provided in section 42-1104 on the
making of assessments and collecting taxes shall with respect to such return
include one year immediately after the date of the filing of such joint return,
computed without regard to the provisions of subsection G of this section.
J.For the purposes of section 42-1125, relating to
penalties in the case of fraudulent returns, the term "return" includes a separate
return filed by a spouse with respect to a taxable year for which a joint
return is made under subsection A of this section after the filing of such
separate return. END_STATUTE
Sec.39.Section 43-432, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-432.Refund for excess withholding
A.When the total amount withheld under section 43401
exceeds the amount of the tax on the employee's entire taxable income as
computed under this title, the department shall, after auditing the annual
return filed by the employee in accordance with chapter 3 of this title, and
without requiring a filing of a refund claim as provided in section 421106,
subsection A, refund the amount of the excess withheld, subject to setoff for
debts pursuant to section 42-1122.Failure of the department to make
such refund shall not limit the right of the taxpayer to file a claim for a
refund as provided in chapter 6, article 1 of this title.If the
excess tax withheld is less than one dollar, no refund shall be made unless
specifically requested by the taxpayer at the time such return is
filed.In no event shall any excess be allowed as a credit against
any tax accruing on a return filed for a year subsequent to the year during
which such excess was withheld, the provisions of chapter 6 of this title
notwithstanding.
B.The department may make separate refunds of
withheld taxes upon on request by a husband or wife spouse who has filed a joint return, the
refund payable to each spouse being proportioned to the gross earnings of each
shown by the information returns filed by the employer or otherwise shown to
the satisfaction of the department.If a taxpayer entitled to a
refund under this subsection dies, the department of revenue may certify to the department of
administration that the refund be made to the taxpayer's duly appointed
executor, administrator or personal representative. END_STATUTE
Sec.40.Section 43-562, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-562.Spousal liability for tax
The spouse who controls the disposition of or who receives or
spends community income as well as the spouse who is taxable on such that
income is liable for the payment of the taxes imposed by this
title on such that income.If a
joint return is filed, the liability for the tax on the aggregate income is
joint and several. END_STATUTE
Sec.41.Section 43-943, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-943.Allocation in the case of a married couple
If husband and wife file
each spouse files a separate
returns return, the department may distribute,
apportion or allocate gross income between the spouses, if it is determined
that such distribution, apportionment or allocation is necessary in order to
reflect the proper income of the spouses. END_STATUTE
Sec.42.Section 43-1022, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1022.Subtractions from Arizona gross income
In computing Arizona adjusted gross income, the following
amounts shall be subtracted from Arizona gross income:
1.The amount of exemptions allowed by section 431023.
2.Benefits, annuities and pensions in an amount
totaling not more than two thousand five hundred dollars received from one or
more of the following:
(a)The United States government service retirement
and disability fund, retired or retainer pay of the uniformed services of the
United States, the United States foreign service retirement and disability
system and any other retirement system or plan established by federal law.
(b)The Arizona state retirement system, the
corrections officer retirement plan, the public safety personnel retirement
system, the elected officials' retirement plan, an optional retirement program
established by the Arizona board of regents under section 151628, an
optional retirement program established by a community college district board
under section 151451 or a retirement plan established for employees of a
county, city or town in this state.
3.A beneficiary's share of the fiduciary adjustment
to the extent that the amount determined by section 431333 decreases the
beneficiary's Arizona gross income.
4.Interest income received on obligations of the
United States, less any interest on indebtedness, or other related expenses,
and deducted in arriving at Arizona gross income, which were incurred or
continued to purchase or carry such obligations.
5.The excess of a partner's share of income
required to be included under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code
over the income required to be included under chapter 14, article 2 of this
title.
6.The excess of a partner's share of partnership
losses determined pursuant to chapter 14, article 2 of this title over the
losses allowable under section 702(a)(8) of the internal revenue code.
7.The amount by which the adjusted basis of
property described in this paragraph and computed pursuant to this title and
the income tax act of 1954, as amended, exceeds the adjusted basis of such
property computed pursuant to the internal revenue code.This
paragraph shall apply to all property that is held for the production of income
and that is sold or otherwise disposed of during the taxable year other than depreciable
property used in a trade or business.
8.The amount allowed by section 431025 for
contributions during the taxable year of agricultural crops to charitable
organizations.
9.The portion of any wages or salaries paid or
incurred by the taxpayer for the taxable year that is equal to the amount of
the federal work opportunity credit, the empowerment zone employment credit,
the credit for employer paid social security taxes on employee cash tips and
the Indian employment credit that the taxpayer received under sections 45A,
45B, 51(a) and 1396 of the internal revenue code.
10.The amount of prizes or winnings less than five
thousand dollars in a single taxable year from any of the state lotteries
established and operated pursuant to title 5, chapter 5.1, article 1.
11.The amount of exploration expenses that is
determined pursuant to section 617 of the internal revenue code, that has been
deferred in a taxable year ending before January 1, 1990 and for which a
subtraction has not previously been made. The subtraction shall be made on a
ratable basis as the units of produced ores or minerals discovered or explored
as a result of this exploration are sold.
12.The amount included in federal adjusted gross
income pursuant to section 86 of the internal revenue code, relating to
taxation of social security and railroad retirement benefits.
13.To the extent not already excluded from Arizona
gross income under the internal revenue code, compensation received for active
service as a member of the reserves, the national guard or the armed forces of
the United States, including compensation for service in a combat zone as
determined under section 112 of the internal revenue code.
14.The amount of unreimbursed medical and hospital
costs, adoption counseling, legal and agency fees and other nonrecurring costs
of adoption not to exceed three thousand dollars. In the case of a husband and wife each spouse who file files
a separate returns return, the subtraction may be
taken by either taxpayer or may be divided between them, but the total
subtractions allowed both husband and
wife spouses shall
not exceed three thousand dollars.The subtraction under this
paragraph may be taken for the costs that are described in this paragraph and
that are incurred in prior years, but the subtraction may be taken only in the
year during which the final adoption order is granted.
15.The amount authorized by section 431027
for the taxable year relating to qualified wood stoves, wood fireplaces or gas
fired fireplaces.
16.The amount by which a net operating loss
carryover or capital loss carryover allowable pursuant to section 431029,
subsection F exceeds the net operating loss carryover or capital loss carryover
allowable pursuant to section 1341(b)(5) of the internal revenue code.
17.Any amount of qualified educational expenses
that is distributed from a qualified state tuition program determined pursuant
to section 529 of the internal revenue code and that is included in income in
computing federal adjusted gross income.
18.Any item of income resulting from an installment
sale that has been properly subjected to income tax in another state in a
previous taxable year and that is included in Arizona gross income in the
current taxable year.
19.The amount authorized by section 431030
relating to holocaust survivors.
20.For property placed in service:
(a)In taxable years beginning before December 31,
2012, an amount equal to the depreciation allowable pursuant to section 167(a)
of the internal revenue code for the taxable year computed as if the election
described in section 168(k)(2)(D)(iii) of the internal revenue code had been
made for each applicable class of property in the year the property was placed
in service.
(b)In taxable years beginning from and after December
31, 2012 through December 31, 2013, an amount determined in the year the asset
was placed in service based on the calculation in subdivision (a) of this
paragraph.In the first taxable year beginning from and after
December 31, 2013, the taxpayer may elect to subtract the amount necessary to
make the depreciation claimed to date for the purposes of this title the same
as it would have been if subdivision (c) of this paragraph had applied for the
entire time the asset was in service. Subdivision (c) of this paragraph
applies for the remainder of the asset's life. If the taxpayer does not make
the election under this subdivision, subdivision (a) of this paragraph applies
for the remainder of the asset's life.
(c)In taxable years
beginning from and after December 31, 2013, an amount equal to the depreciation
allowable pursuant to section 167(a) of the internal revenue code for the
taxable year as computed as if the additional allowance for depreciation had
been ten per cent percent of the amount allowed
pursuant to section 168(k) of the internal revenue code.
21.With respect to property that is sold or
otherwise disposed of during the taxable year by a taxpayer that complied with
section 431021, paragraph 16 with respect to that property, the amount
of depreciation that has been allowed pursuant to section 167(a) of the
internal revenue code to the extent that the amount has not already reduced
Arizona taxable income in the current or prior taxable years.
22.With respect to property for which an adjustment
was made under section 431021, paragraph 17, an amount equal to onefifth
of the amount of the adjustment pursuant to section 431021, paragraph 17
in the year in which the amount was adjusted under section 431021,
paragraph 17 and in each of the following four years.
23.The amount contributed during the taxable year
to college savings plans established pursuant to section 529 of the internal
revenue code to the extent that the contributions were not deducted in
computing federal adjusted gross income. The amount subtracted shall not
exceed:
(a)Two thousand dollars for a single individual or
a head of household.
(b)Four thousand dollars for a married couple
filing a joint return. In the case of a
husband and wife each
spouse who file
files a separate returns return, the subtraction may be taken by
either taxpayer or may be divided between them, but the total subtractions
allowed both husband and wife
spouses shall not exceed
four thousand dollars.
24.The amount of any original issue discount that
was deferred and not allowed to be deducted in computing federal adjusted gross
income in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the internal
revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and reinvestment
act of 2009 (P.L. 1115).
25.The amount of previously deferred discharge of
indebtedness income that is included in the computation of federal adjusted
gross income in the current taxable year pursuant to section 108(i) of the
internal revenue code as added by section 1231 of the American recovery and
reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 111-5), to the extent that the amount was
previously added to Arizona gross income pursuant to section 431021,
paragraph 19.
26.The portion of the net operating loss
carryforward that would have been allowed as a deduction in the current year
pursuant to section 172 of the internal revenue code if the election described
in section 172(b)(1)(H) of the internal revenue code had not been made in the
year of the loss that exceeds the actual net operating loss carryforward that
was deducted in arriving at federal adjusted gross income. This subtraction
only applies to taxpayers who made an election under section 172(b)(1)(H) of
the internal revenue code as amended by section 1211 of the American recovery
and reinvestment act of 2009 (P.L. 1115) or as amended by section 13 of
the worker, homeownership, and business assistance act of 2009 (P.L. 11192).
27.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2013, the amount of any net capital gain included in federal
adjusted gross income for the taxable year derived from investment in a
qualified small business as determined by the Arizona commerce authority
pursuant to section 411518.
28.An amount of any net long-term capital gain
included in federal adjusted gross income for the taxable year that is derived
from an investment in an asset acquired after December 31, 2011, as follows:
(a)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2013, ten per cent percent of the net long-term capital gain included in
federal adjusted gross income.
(b)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2014, twenty per cent percent of the net long-term capital gain included in federal
adjusted gross income.
(c)For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2014, twenty-five per cent
percent of the net
long-term capital gain included in federal adjusted gross income.
For the purposes of this paragraph, a
transferee that receives an asset by gift or at the death of a transferor is
considered to have acquired the asset when the asset was acquired by the
transferor.If the date an asset is acquired cannot be verified, a
subtraction under this paragraph is not allowed.
29.If an individual is not claiming itemized
deductions pursuant to section 431042, the amount of premium costs for
long-term care insurance, as defined in section 201691.
30.With respect to a long-term health care savings
account established pursuant to section 431032, the amount deposited by
the taxpayer in the account during the taxable year to the extent that the
taxpayer's contributions are included in the taxpayer's federal adjusted gross
income. END_STATUTE
Sec.43.Section 43-1041, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1041.Optional standard deduction
A.A taxpayer may elect to take a standard deduction
as follows:
1.In the case of a single person or a married
person filing separately, the standard deduction shall be four thousand fifty
dollars, subject to subsection G of this section.
2.In the case of a married couple filing a joint
return or a single person who is a head of a household, the standard deduction
shall be eight thousand one hundred dollars, subject to subsection G of this
section.
B.The standard deduction provided for in subsection
A of this section shall be in lieu of all itemized deductions allowed by
section 431042,
which are to be subtracted from Arizona adjusted gross income in computing
taxable income, but not in lieu of the personal exemption allowed by section 431043.
C.The standard deduction shall be allowed if the
taxpayer so elects, and the department shall by rule prescribe the manner of
signifying such election in the return.
D.In the case of a husband and wife married couple, the standard deduction
provided for in subsection A of this section shall not be allowed to either if
the taxable income of one of the spouses is determined without regard to the
standard deduction.
E.The standard deduction provided for by subsection
A of this section shall not be allowed in the case of a taxable year of less
than twelve months on account of a change in the accounting period.
F.Under rules adopted by the department, a change
of an election to take, or not to take, the standard deduction for any taxable
year may be made after the filing of the return for such year.If
the spouse of the taxpayer filed a separate return for any taxable year
corresponding, for the purposes of subsection D of this section, to the taxable
year of the taxpayer, the change shall not be allowed unless, in accordance
with such rules, both paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection apply:
1.The spouse makes a change of election with
respect to the standard deduction for the taxable year covered in such separate
return consistent with the change of election sought by the taxpayer.
2.The taxpayer and spouse consent in writing to the
assessment, within such period as may be agreed upon on
with the department, of any deficiency, to the extent
attributable to such change of election, even though at the time of the filing
of such consent the assessment of such deficiency would otherwise be prevented
by the operation of any law or rule of law.
G.For each taxable year beginning on or after
January 1, the department shall adjust the dollar amounts prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section according to the average
annual change in the metropolitan Phoenix consumer price index published by the
United States bureau of labor statistics. The revised dollar amounts shall be
raised to the nearest whole dollar. The designated dollar amounts shall not be
revised below the amounts allowed by the standard deduction in the prior
taxable year. END_STATUTE
Sec.44.Section 43-1043, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1043.Personal exemptions
There shall be allowed as an exemption, in the case of:
1.A single individual, a personal exemption of two
thousand one hundred dollars.
2.A head of a household or a married individual, a
personal exemption of four thousand two hundred dollars under this
paragraph.A husband and wife
married couple shall
receive but one personal exemption of four thousand two hundred
dollars.If the husband and
wife make each spouse
makes a separate returns return, the personal exemption
may be taken by either spouse or
divided between them.
3.A married couple who claim at least one
dependent, an exemption of six thousand three hundred dollars.If the husband and wife make each spouse makes a separate returns return, the personal exemption may be taken
by either spouse or
divided between them.An exemption under this paragraph is in lieu
of the exemption under paragraph 2 of
this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.45.Section
43-1083, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1083.Credit for solar energy devices
A.A credit is
allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for each resident who is not a
dependent of another taxpayer for installing a solar energy device, as defined
in section 42-5001, during the taxable year in the taxpayer's residence located
in this state.The credit is equal to twenty-five per cent percent of the cost of the device.
B.The maximum credit in a taxable year may not
exceed one thousand dollars.The person who provides the solar
energy device shall furnish the taxpayer with an accounting of the cost to the
taxpayer.A taxpayer may claim the credit under this section only
once in a tax year and may not cumulate over different tax years tax credits
under this section exceeding, in the aggregate, one thousand dollars for the
same residence.
C.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the amount of the claim not used to offset taxes
under this title may be carried forward for not more than five consecutive
taxable years as a credit against subsequent years' income tax liability.
D.A husband
and wife Each spouse who
file files a separate returns return
for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return
may each claim only one-half of the tax credit that would have been allowed for
a joint return.
E.The credit allowed under this section is in lieu
of any allowance for state tax purposes for exhaustion, wear and tear of the
solar energy device under section 167 of the internal revenue code.
F.To qualify for the credit under this section, the solar energy device and
its installation shall meet the requirements of title 44, chapter 11, article
11.
G.A solar hot water heater plumbing stub out that
was installed by the builder of a house or dwelling unit before title was
conveyed to the taxpayer does not qualify for a credit under this section, but
the taxpayer may claim a credit for the device under section 431090 or
431176 under the circumstances, conditions and limitations prescribed by
section 431090, subsection C or section
43-1176, subsection C, as applicable. END_STATUTE
Sec.46.Section 43-1086, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1086.Credit for donation to the military family relief fund
A.For taxable years beginning from and after
December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2018, a credit is allowed against the
taxes imposed by this title for cash contributions made by a taxpayer during
the taxable year to the military family relief fund established by section 41608.04.
The amount of the credit is the lowest of the following amounts, as applicable:
1.The total amount of contributions to the fund by
the taxpayer during the taxable year.
2.Two hundred dollars of contributions during the
taxable year by a taxpayer filing as a single individual or a head of
household.
3.Four hundred dollars of contributions during the
taxable year by a married couple filing a joint return.
4.The taxpayer's tax liability for the taxable
year.
B.A husband
and wife Each spouse who
file files a separate returns return
for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return
may each claim only one-half of the tax credit that would have been allowed on
a joint return. END_STATUTE
Sec.47.Section 43-1088, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1088.Credit for contribution to qualifying charitable
organizations; definitions
A.Except as provided in
subsection B of this section, a credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on the
taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401, subsection G during the
taxable year to a qualifying charitable organization not to exceed:
1.Two hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
B.If the voluntary cash
contribution by the taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G is to a qualifying foster care charitable organization, the credit
shall not exceed:
1.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Eight hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
C.A husband and wife Each spouse who file files
a separate returns
return for a taxable year
in which they could have filed a joint return may each claim only onehalf
of the tax credit that would have been allowed for a joint return.
D.If the allowable tax
credit exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on the claimant's
income, or if there are no taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry
forward the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under this title
for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by
this section is in lieu of a deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal
revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
F.Taxpayers taking a
credit authorized by this section shall provide the name of the qualifying
charitable organization and the amount of the contribution to the department of
revenue on forms provided by the department.
G.A qualifying
charitable organization shall provide the department of revenue with a written
certification that it meets all criteria to be considered a qualifying
charitable organization.The organization shall also notify the
department of any changes that may affect the qualifications under this
section.
H.The charitable
organization's written certification must be signed by an officer of the
organization under penalty of perjury. The written certification must include
the following:
1.Verification of the
organization's status under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code or
verification that the organization is a designated community action agency that
receives community services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United
States Code section 9901.
2.Financial data
indicating the organization's budget for the organization's prior operating
year and the amount of that budget spent on services to residents of this state
who either:
(a)Receive temporary
assistance for needy families benefits.
(b)Are lowincome
residents of this state.
(c)Are children who
have a chronic illness or physical disability.
3.A statement that the
organization plans to continue spending at least fifty percent of its budget on
services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance for needy
families benefits, who are lowincome residents of this state or who are
children who have a chronic illness or physical disability.
4.A statement that the
organization does not provide, pay for or provide coverage of abortions and
does not financially support any other entity that provides, pays for or
provides coverage of abortions.
I.The department shall
review each written certification and determine whether the organization meets
all the criteria to be considered a qualifying charitable organization and
notify the organization of its determination.The department may
also periodically request recertification from the organization.The
department shall compile and make available to the public a list of the
qualifying charitable organizations.
J.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Children who
have a chronic illness or physical disability" has the same meaning
prescribed in section 36260.
2."Lowincome
residents" means persons whose household income is less than one hundred
fifty percent of the federal poverty level.
3."Qualifying
charitable organization" means a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code or is a designated community action agency that receives community
services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United States Code section
9901.The organization must spend at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance
for needy families benefits or lowincome residents of this state and
their households or to children who have a chronic illness or physical
disability who are residents of this state. Taxpayers choosing to make
donations through an umbrella charitable organization that collects donations
on behalf of member charities shall designate that the donation be directed to
a member charitable organization that would qualify under this section on a
standalone basis.Qualifying charitable organization does not
include any entity that provides, pays for or provides coverage of abortions or
that financially supports any other entity that provides, pays for or provides
coverage of abortions.
4."Qualifying
foster care charitable organization" means a qualifying charitable
organization that each operating year provides services to at least two hundred
qualified individuals in this state and spends at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to qualified individuals in this state. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "qualified individual" means a foster child as
defined in section 8501 or a person who is under twentyone years
of age and who is participating in a transitional independent living program as
prescribed by section 8521.01.
5."Services"
means cash assistance, medical care, child care, food, clothing, shelter, job
placement and job training services or any other assistance that is reasonably
necessary to meet immediate basic needs and that is provided and used in this
state. END_STATUTE
Sec.48.Section 43-1089, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.Credit for contributions to school tuition organization
A.A credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for the amount of voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on
the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401, subsection G during the
taxable year to a school tuition organization that is certified pursuant to
chapter 16 of this title at the time of donation. Except as provided by
subsection C of this section, the amount of the credit shall not exceed:
1.Five hundred dollars in any taxable year for a
single individual or a head of household.
2.One thousand dollars in any taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.A husband
and wife Each spouse who
file files a separate returns return
for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return
may each claim only onehalf of the tax credit that would have been
allowed for a joint return.
C.For each taxable year beginning on or after
January 1, the department shall adjust the dollar amounts prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section according to the average
annual change in the metropolitan Phoenix consumer price index published by the
United States bureau of labor statistics, except that the dollar amounts shall
not be revised downward below the amounts allowed in the prior taxable year.
The revised dollar amounts shall be raised to the nearest whole dollar.
D.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
F.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization for
the direct benefit of any dependent of the taxpayer or if the taxpayer
designates a student beneficiary as a condition of the taxpayer's contribution
to the school tuition organization. The tax credit is not allowed if the
taxpayer, with the intent to benefit the taxpayer's dependent, agrees with one
or more other taxpayers to designate each taxpayer's contribution to the school
tuition organization for the direct benefit of the other taxpayer's dependent.
G.For the purposes of this section, a contribution,
for which a credit is claimed, that is made on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month following the close of the taxable year may be applied to
either the current or preceding taxable year and is considered to have been
made on the last day of that taxable year. END_STATUTE
Sec.49.Section 43-1089.01, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.01.Tax credit; public school fees and contributions;
definitions
A.A
credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of any
fees paid or cash
contributions made by a
taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G during the taxable year to a public school located in this state
for the support of fees paid for standardized
testing fees for college
credit or readiness offered by a widely recognized and accepted educational
testing organization, the career and technical education industry certification
assessment, or preparation courses and
materials for standardized testing, or contributions for the support of
extracurricular activities or character education programs of the public
school, but not exceeding:
1.Two
hundred dollars for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Three
hundred dollars in taxable year 2005 for a married couple filing a joint
return.
3.Four
hundred dollars in taxable year 2006 and any subsequent taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.A husband and wife Each spouse who file files
a separate returns
return for a taxable year
in which they could have filed a joint return may each claim only onehalf
of the tax credit that would have been allowed for a joint return.
C.The
credit allowed by this section is in lieu of any deduction pursuant to section
170 of the internal revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
D.If
the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on
the claimant's income, or if there are no taxes due under this title, the
taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under
this title forward for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax
liability.
E.The
site council of the public school that receives contributions that are not
designated for a specific purpose shall determine how the contributions are
used at the school site. If a charter school does not have a site council, the
principal, director or chief administrator of the charter school shall
determine how the contributions that are not designated for a specific purpose
are used at the school site. If at the end of a fiscal year a public school
has unspent contributions that were previously designated for a specific
purpose or program and that purpose or program has been discontinued or has not
been used for two consecutive fiscal years, these contributions shall be
considered undesignated in the following fiscal year for the purposes of this
subsection.
F.A
public school that receives fees or a cash contribution pursuant to subsection
A of this section shall report to the department, in a form prescribed by the
department, by February 28 of each year the following information:
1.The
total number of fee and cash contribution payments received during the previous
calendar year.
2.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions received during the previous
calendar year.
3.The
total dollar amount of fees and contributions spent by the school during the
previous calendar year, categorized by specific standardized testing,
preparation courses and materials for standardized testing, extracurricular
activity or character education program.
G.For
the purposes of this section, a contribution for which a credit is claimed and
that is made on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
close of the taxable year may be applied to either the current or preceding
taxable year and is considered to have been made on the last day of that
taxable year.
H.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Career
and technical education industry certification assessment" means an
assessment for career and technical preparation programs for pupils.
2."Character
education programs" means a program described in section 15719.
3."Extracurricular
activities" means schoolsponsored activities that require enrolled
students to pay a fee in order to participate, including fees for:
(a)Band
uniforms.
(b)Equipment
or uniforms for varsity athletic activities.
(c)Scientific
laboratory materials.
(d)Instate or
outofstate trips that are solely for competitive events.
Extracurricular activities do not include any senior trips or events that are
recreational, amusement or tourist activities.
4."Public
school" means a school that is part of a school district, a joint
technical education district or a charter school.
5."Standardized
testing for college credit or readiness" includes the SAT, PSAT, ACT,
advanced placement and international baccalaureate diploma tests and other
similar tests.
6."Widely
recognized and accepted educational testing organization" means the
college board, the ACT, the international baccalaureate and other organizations
that are widely recognized and accepted by colleges and universities in the
United States and that offer college credit and readiness examinations. END_STATUTE
Sec.50.Section 43-1089.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.02.Credit for donation of school site
A.A credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title in the amount of thirty per
cent percent of
the value of real property and improvements donated by the taxpayer to a school
district or a charter school for use as a school or as a site for the
construction of a school. 
B.To qualify for the credit:
1.The real property and improvements must be
located in this state.
2.The real property and improvements must be
conveyed unencumbered and in fee simple, except that:
(a)The conveyance must include as a deed
restriction and protective covenant running with title to the land the
requirement that as long as the donee holds title to the property the property
shall only be used as a school or as a site for the construction of a school,
subject to subsection I or J of this section.
(b)In the case of a donation to a charter school,
the donor shall record a lien on the property as provided by subsection J,
paragraph 3 of this section.
3.The conveyance shall not violate section 15341,
subsection D or section 15183, subsection U.
C.For the purposes of this section, the value of
the donated property is the property's fair market value as determined in an
appraisal as defined in section 323601 that is conducted by an
independent party and that is paid for by the donee.
D.If the property is donated by co-owners,
including partners in a partnership and shareholders of an S corporation, as
defined in section 1361 of the internal revenue code, each donor may claim only
the pro rata share of the allowable credit under this section based on the
ownership interest.If the property is donated by a husband and wife both spouses who file separate returns for a
taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return, they may determine
between them the share of the credit each will claim. The total of the credits
allowed all co-owner donors may not exceed the allowable credit.
E.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
F.The credit under this section is in lieu of any
deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code taken for state
tax purposes.
G.On written request by the donee, the donor shall
disclose in writing to the donee the amount of the credit allowed pursuant to
this section with respect to the property received by the donee.
H.A school district or charter school may refuse
the donation of any property for purposes of this section.
I.If the donee is a school district:
1.The district shall notify the school facilities
board established by section 152001 and furnish the board with any
information the board requests regarding the donation.A school
district shall not accept a donation pursuant to this section unless the school
facilities board has reviewed the proposed donation and has issued a written
determination that the real property and improvements are suitable as a school
site or as a school.The school facilities board shall issue a
determination that the real property and improvements are not suitable as a
school site or as a school if the expenses that would be necessary to make the
property suitable as a school site or as a school exceed the value of the
proposed donation.
2.The district may sell any donated property
pursuant to section 15342, but the proceeds from the sale shall only be
used for capital projects.The school facilities board shall
withhold an amount that corresponds to the amount of the proceeds from any
monies that would otherwise be due the school district from the school
facilities board pursuant to section 152041.
J.If the donee is a charter school:
1.The charter school shall:
(a)Immediately notify the sponsor of the charter
school by certified mail and shall furnish the sponsor with any information
requested by the sponsor regarding the donation during the ten year tenyear period after the conveyance is recorded.
(b)Notify the sponsor by certified mail, and the
sponsor shall notify the state treasurer, in the event of the charter school's
financial failure or if the charter school:
(i)Fails to establish a charter school on the
property within fortyeight months after the conveyance is recorded.
(ii)Fails to provide instruction to pupils on the
property within forty-eight months after the conveyance is recorded.
(iii)Establishes a charter school on the property
but subsequently ceases to operate the charter school on the property for
twentyfour consecutive months or fails to provide instruction to pupils
on the property for twenty-four consecutive months.
2.The charter school, or a successor in interest,
shall pay to the state treasurer the amount of the credit allowed under this
section, or if that amount is unknown, the amount of the allowable credit under
this section, if any of the circumstances listed in paragraph 1, subdivision
(b) of this subsection occurs. If the amount is not paid within one year after
the treasurer receives notice under paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this
subsection, a penalty and interest shall be added, determined pursuant to title
42, chapter 1, article 3.
3.A tax credit under this section constitutes a
lien on the property, which the donor must record along with the title to the
property to qualify for the credit. The amount of the lien is the amount of
the allowable credit under this section, adjusted according to the average
change in the GDP price deflator, as defined in section 41563, for each
calendar year since the donation, but not exceeding twelve and one-half per cent percent more than the allowable
credit.The lien is subordinate to any liens securing the financing
of the school construction.The lien is extinguished on the earliest
of the following:
(a)Ten years after the lien is
recorded.After that date, the charter school, or a successor in
interest, may request the state treasurer to release the lien.
(b)On payment to the state treasurer by the donee
charter school, or by a successor in interest, of the amount of the allowable
credit under this section, either voluntarily or as required by paragraph 2 of
this subsection. After the required amount is paid, the charter school or
successor in interest may request the state treasurer to release the lien.
(c)On conveyance of fee simple title to the
property to a school district.
(d)On enforcement and satisfaction of the lien
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this subsection.
4.The state treasurer shall enforce the lien by
foreclosure within one year after receiving notice of any of the circumstances
described in paragraph 1, subdivision (b) of this subsection.
5.Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this subsection,
the charter school may sell any donated property. END_STATUTE
Sec.51.Section
43-1089.03, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1089.03.Credit for contributions to certified school tuition
organization
A.A credit is
allowed against the taxes imposed by this title for the amount of voluntary
cash contributions by the taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to
section 43401, subsection I
G during the taxable year
to a school tuition organization that is certified pursuant to chapter 16 of
this title at the time of donation. Except as provided by subsection C of this
section, the amount of the credit shall not exceed:
1.Five hundred dollars in any taxable year for a
single individual or a head of household.
2.One thousand dollars in any taxable year for a
married couple filing a joint return.
B.A husband
and wife Each spouse who
file files a separate returns return
for a taxable year in which they could have filed a joint return
may each claim only one-half of the tax credit that would have been allowed for
a joint return.
C.For each taxable year beginning on or after
January 1, the department shall adjust the dollar amounts prescribed by
subsection A, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section according to the average
annual change in the metropolitan phoenix consumer price index published by the
United States bureau of labor statistics, except that the dollar amounts shall
not be revised downward below the amounts allowed in the prior taxable year.
The revised dollar amounts shall be raised to the nearest whole dollar.
D.If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under this title on the claimant's income, or if there are no
taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not
used to offset the taxes under this title forward for not more than five
consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by this section is in lieu of
any deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken
for state tax purposes.
F.The tax credit is not allowed if the taxpayer
designates the taxpayer's contribution to the school tuition organization for
the direct benefit of any dependent of the taxpayer or if the taxpayer
designates a student beneficiary as a condition of the taxpayer's contribution
to the school tuition organization. The tax credit is not allowed if the
taxpayer, with the intent to benefit the taxpayer's dependent, agrees with one
or more other taxpayers to designate each taxpayer's contribution to the school
tuition organization for the direct benefit of the other taxpayer's dependent.
G.For the purposes of this section, a contribution,
for which a credit is claimed, that is made on or before the fifteenth day of
the fourth month following the close of the taxable year may be applied to
either the current or preceding taxable year and is considered to have been
made on the last day of that taxable year. 
H.A taxpayer may not claim a credit under this
section and also under section 431089 with respect to the same
contribution. If a taxpayer's contribution to a school tuition organization
exceeds the amount of the credit allowed under section 431089, a
taxpayer may claim a credit under this section and also under section 431089.If
a taxpayer's contribution to a school tuition organization does not exceed the
amount of the credit allowed by section 431089, the contribution is
considered to have been made pursuant to section 431089. END_STATUTE
Sec.52.Legislative intent
This act replaces the term "husband and wife" in each
of the statutes in which it appears in the Arizona Revised Statutes. It is the
intent of the legislature that agencies, boards, commissions, department,
officers and other administrative units of this state make similar changes in
their respective administrative rules.

