







REFERENCE TITLE: child neglect cases; assessment







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1404









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Farley, Sherwood: Contreras,
  Quezada





AN ACT

prescribing a
study and assessment of reports submitted to the department of child safety
involving child neglect allegations.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Department of child safety; assessment of child neglect
cases; delayed repeal
A.On or before February 1 in 2017, 2018 and 2019,
the department of child safety shall conduct a study and issue an assessment
based on available systems data and a case review of child neglect to the
governor, the chairperson of the house of representatives child and family
affairs committee and the chairperson of the senate health and human services
committee, or their successor committees, and the director of the joint legislative
budget committee and the director of the governor's office of strategic
planning and budgeting. The department shall provide a copy of each report to
the secretary of state.
B.The department shall enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with a university under the jurisdiction of the
Arizona board of regents for the study and assessment.
C.The study for each year shall be based on reports
received by the centralized intake hotline during the first full week of
February of the most recently completed fiscal year and a case review of the
reports involving child neglect allegations. The department shall produce a
data report from its case management system that includes:
1.The number and percentage of reports involving at
least one allegation of child neglect.
2.The age, race and ethnicity of each child
associated with the reports and the child's role in the report, family
structure and geographical location at the time of the report.
3.The number of parents or caregivers with a prior
history of abuse or neglect of a child victim, by type and priority.
4.The number and percentage of reports by
investigation status and whether the investigation was closed within fortyfive
days, sixty days or ninety days after the date the report was taken and how
many investigations remain open after six months.
5.The number and percentage of reports resulting in
a finding of substantiation, proposed substantiation or unsubstantiation.
6.The characteristics of each adult household
member, including the member's age, race and ethnicity and role in the family,
whether the member is identified as a perpetrator in the report and, if so, for
which allegations.
7.The number and percentage of reports involving
only neglect allegations and the number and percentage involving neglect
allegations and other types of allegations, by type and priority.
8.The age and geographical location of children who
were subject to neglect allegations and who were taken into temporary custody
by the department.
9.The number and percentage of children who are
taken into temporary custody by the department and who remain in care fewer
than eight days or fewer than thirty days.
10.Of the children reunified with the family within
thirty days, the number and location of children who had a subsequent removal
date within six months after reunification.
11.The number and percentage of reports that
involve a criminal conduct allegation.
12.At the time of the report, the time that has
passed since the neglect occurred and the number and percentage of cases for
which this period is more than one year.
13.The number and percentage of children with
neglect allegations who were subject to prior reports by type and priority
level.
14The number of children included in the report who
were subject to prior reports, by type and priority.
15.The number of reports of neglect that resulted
in a case being opened for services and the length of time the case was open.
D.In the case review portion of the study and
assessment performed by the university, the specific types of neglect examined
and reported by number and percentage shall include:
1.Suspicious death or death of a child due to
neglect.
2.A caregiver knowingly allowing or providing the
child substances that caused or may cause the child harm.
3.Substance exposure of a newborn or infant. This
type of neglect includes an infant who exhibits symptoms consistent with fetal
alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effects.
4.Absence of the caregiver.
5.Injuries due to neglect or failure to supervise
the child.
6.Extreme fear by the child because of the child's
home situation or present circumstance or because of a threat of additional
neglect.
7.Inability of the caregiver to perform parental
responsibilities consistent with basic needs leaving the child in a threatened
state due to the caregiver's:
(a)Substance use.
(b)Behavioral or mental illness or condition.
(c)Substance abuse.
(d)Substance addiction.
(e)Physical impairment.
(f)Cognitive functioning.
8.A caregiver's:
(a)Descriptions of or actions toward the child are
in predominately negative terms.
(b)Distorted view of the child.
(c)Extremely unrealistic expectations given the
child's age or level of development.
9.Reckless or deliberate exposure by the caregiver
of the child to sexually explicit material or acts.
10.Inability or unwillingness of the caregiver to
meet the child's needs for supervision, food, clothing, shelter or medical
care.
11.Allowance by the caregiver of access to the
child by a known sexual predator.
12.Allowance by the caregiver of a child to enter
or remain in a structure or vehicle that is used for the purposes of
manufacturing drugs.
13.Behavior of the child in the home that threatens
serious or severe harm to the child or others and the unwillingness or
inability of the caregiver to control the behavior.
14.Significant incidents of or repeated exposure to
domestic violence that cause a risk of harm to the child.
15.A living environment that threatens the child's
safety.
16.Inability or unwillingness of the caregiver to
meet the child's needs for medical health care that places the child at
imminent risk of harm.
17.A medical diagnosis of malnutrition or failure
to thrive without a previously diagnosed health condition.
E.The university shall summarize its findings and
may make recommendation concerning policy and practice as deemed appropriate to
the data and case review.
F.This section is repealed from and after February
1, 2019.

