







REFERENCE TITLE: property tax; disabled veterans'
  residences







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1431









Introduced by
Senator
  Griffin





AN ACT

Amending sections
15-972, 42-12003, 42-12009, 42-12052, 42-12053 and 4212054, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 42, chapter 12, article 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 42-12058; amending sections 4215102 and
42-15103, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to property tax classification.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 15-972, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE15-972.State limitation on homeowner property taxes; additional
state aid to school districts; definitions
A.Notwithstanding section 15971, there shall
be additional state aid for education computed for school districts as provided
in subsection B of this section.
B.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
compute such additional state aid for education as follows:
1.For a high school district or for a common school
district within a high school district that does not offer instruction in high
school subjects as provided in section 15447:
(a)Determine the qualifying tax rate pursuant to
section 411276 for the school district.
(b)Determine the following percentage of the
qualifying tax rate determined in subdivision (a) of this paragraph:
(i)Thirtyfive percent through December 31,
2005.
(ii)Thirtysix percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
(iii)Thirtyseven percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
(iv)Thirtyeight percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
(v)Thirtynine percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
(vi)Forty percent beginning from and after December
31, 2009.
(vii)Such further adjustments of the percentage
beginning from and after December 31, 2012 as provided by law.
(c)Select the lesser of the amount determined in
subdivision (b) of this paragraph or forty percent of the primary property tax
rate that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of this section for the
district.
(d)Multiply the rate selected in subdivision (c) of
this paragraph as a rate per one hundred dollars assessed valuation by the
assessed valuation used for primary property taxes of the residential property
in the school district.
2.For a unified school district, for a common
school district not within a high school district or for a common school
district that offers instruction in high school subjects as provided in section
15447:
(a)Determine the qualifying tax rate pursuant to
section 411276 for the school district.
(b)Determine the following percentage of the tax
rate determined in subdivision (a) of this paragraph:
(i)Thirtyfive percent through December 31,
2005.
(ii)Thirtysix percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
(iii)Thirtyseven percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
(iv)Thirtyeight percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
(v)Thirtynine percent beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
(vi)Forty percent beginning from and after December
31, 2009.
(vii)Such further adjustments of the percentage
beginning from and after December 31, 2012 as provided by law.
(c)Select the lesser of the amount determined in
subdivision (b) of this paragraph or forty percent of the primary property tax
rate that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of this section for the
district.
(d)Multiply the rate selected in subdivision (c) of
this paragraph as a rate per one hundred dollars assessed valuation by the
assessed valuation used for primary property taxes of the residential property
in the district.
C.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than the Friday following the
third Monday in August of each year the amount by school district of additional
state aid for education and the data used for computing the amount as provided
in subsection B of this section.The department of revenue shall
verify all of the amounts and report to the county board of supervisors not
later than August 30 of each year the property tax rate or rates that shall be
used for property tax reduction as provided in subsection E of this section.
D.The board of supervisors shall reduce the
property tax rate or rates that would be levied in lieu of the provisions of
this section by the school district or districts on the assessed valuation used
for primary property taxes of the residential property in the school district
or districts by the rate or rates selected in subsection B, paragraph 1,
subdivision (c) and paragraph 2, subdivision (c) of this section. The excess
of the reduction in property taxes for a parcel of property resulting from the
reduction in the property tax rate pursuant to this subsection over the amounts
listed in this subsection shall be deducted from the amount of additional state
aid for education. The reduction in property taxes on a parcel of property
resulting from the reduction in the property tax rate pursuant to this
subsection shall not exceed the following amounts except as provided in
subsection I of this section:
1.Five hundred dollars through December 31, 2005.
2.Five hundred twenty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2006.
3.Five hundred forty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
4.Five hundred sixty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2008.
5.Five hundred eighty dollars beginning from and
after December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
6.Six hundred dollars beginning from and after
December 31, 2009.
E.Prior to the levying of taxes for school purposes
the board of supervisors shall determine whether the total primary property
taxes to be levied for all taxing jurisdictions on each parcel of residential
property, in lieu of the provisions of this subsection, violate article IX,
section 18, Constitution of Arizona. For those properties that qualify for
property tax exemptions pursuant to article IX, sections 2, 2.1 and 2.2,
Constitution of Arizona, eligibility for the credit is determined on the basis
of the limited property value that corresponds to the taxable assessed value after
reduction for the applicable exemption. If the board of supervisors determines
that such a situation exists, the board shall apply a credit against the
primary property taxes due from each such parcel in the amount in excess of
article IX, section 18, Constitution of Arizona. Such excess amounts shall
also be additional state aid for education for the school district or districts
in which such parcel of property is located.
F.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than September 5 of each year the
amount by school district of additional state aid for education and the data
used for computing the amount as provided in subsection B of this
section.The department of revenue shall verify all of the amounts
and report to the board of supervisors not later than September 10 of each year
the property tax rate that shall be used for property tax reduction as provided
in subsection E of this section.
G.The clerk of the board of supervisors shall
report to the department of revenue not later than September 30 of each year in
writing the following:
1.The data processing specifications used in the
calculations provided for in subsections B and E of this section.
2.At a minimum, copies of two actual tax bills for
residential property for each distinct tax area.
H.The department of revenue shall report to the
state board of education not later than October 12 of each year the amount by
school district of additional state aid for education as provided in this
section. The additional state aid for education provided in this section shall
be apportioned as provided in section 15973.
I.If a parcel of property is owned by a cooperative
apartment corporation or is owned by the tenants of a cooperative apartment
corporation as tenants in common, the reduction in the property taxes
prescribed in subsection D of this section shall not exceed the amounts listed
in subsection D of this section for each owneroccupied housing unit on
the property. The assessed value used for determining the reduction in taxes
for the property is equal to the total assessed value of the property times the
ratio of the number of owneroccupied housing units to the total number
of housing units on the property.For the purposes of this
subsection, "cooperative apartment corporation" means a corporation:
1.Having only one class of outstanding stock.
2.Of which
all of the stockholders of which
are entitled, solely by reason of their ownership of stock in the corporation,
to occupy for dwelling purposes apartments in a building owned or leased by
such corporation and who
are not entitled, either conditionally or unconditionally, except upon on a complete or partial liquidation of the
corporation, to receive any distribution not out of earnings and profits of the
corporation.
3.Of which eighty
percent or more of the gross income of
which is derived from tenantstockholders. For the
purposes of this paragraph, "gross income" means gross income as
defined by the United States internal revenue code, as defined in section 43105.
J.The total amount of state monies that may be
spent in any fiscal year for state aid for education in this section shall not
exceed the amount appropriated or authorized by section 35173 for that
purpose. This section shall not be construed to impose a duty on an officer,
agent or employee of this state to discharge a responsibility or to create any
right in a person or group if the discharge or right would require an
expenditure of state monies in excess of the expenditure authorized by
legislative appropriation for that specific purpose.
K.Notwithstanding subsection E of this section,
beginning in fiscal year 2015-2016, the maximum amount of additional state aid
for education that will be funded by this state pursuant to subsection E of
this section shall be one million dollars per county. For any county with a
school district or districts that collectively would otherwise receive more
than one million dollars in
additional state aid for education pursuant to subsection E of this section,
the property tax oversight commission established by section 4217002
shall determine the proportion of the violation of article IX, section 18,
Constitution of Arizona, that is attributable to each taxing jurisdiction within
the affected school district or districts.Based on those
proportions, the property tax oversight commission shall determine an amount
that each taxing jurisdiction within the affected school district or districts
shall transfer to the affected school district or districts during the fiscal
year in order to compensate the affected school district or districts for its
pro rata share of the reduction in additional state aid for education funding
required by this subsection. In determining the proportion of the violation of
article IX, section 18, Constitution of Arizona, that is attributable to each
taxing jurisdiction within the affected school district or districts, the
property tax oversight commission shall assume a proportion of zero for any
taxing jurisdiction that has a tax rate for the fiscal year that is equal to or
less than the tax rate of peer jurisdictions, as determined by the property tax
oversight commission.
L.For the purposes
of this section:
1."Owner"
includes any purchaser under a contract of sale or under a deed of trust.
2."Residential property" includes owneroccupied
real property and improvements to the property and owneroccupied mobile
homes that are used as the owner's primary residence and classified as class
three property pursuant to section 4212003 and as class nine property pursuant to section 42-12009,
subsection A, paragraph 6. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 42-12003, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12003.Class three property; definition
A.For purposes of taxation, class three is
established consisting of:
1.Real and personal property and improvements to
the property that are used as the owner's primary residence, that are not
otherwise included in class one, two, four, six, seven, or
eight or nine and that
are valued at full cash value. 
2.Real and personal property that is occupied by a
relative of the owner, as provided by section 4212053, and used as the
relative's primary residence, that is not otherwise included in class one, two,
four, six, seven or eight and that is valued at full cash value.
B.For the purposes of this section, a homesite that
is included in class three may include:
1.Up to ten acres on a single parcel of real
property on which the residential improvement is located.
2.More than ten, but not more than forty, acres on
a single parcel of real property on which the residential improvement is
located if it is zoned exclusively for residential purposes or contains legal
restrictions or physical conditions that prevent the division of the parcel.
C.For the purposes of this section, "physical
conditions" means topography, mountains, washes, rivers, roads or any other
configuration that limits the residential usable land area. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 42-12009, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12009.Class nine property
A.For purposes of
taxation, class nine is established consisting of:
1.Improvements that are
located on federal, state, county or municipal property and owned by the lessee
of the property if:
(a)The improvements are
required to become the property of the federal, state, county or municipal
owner of the property on termination ofthe leasehold interest in the
property.
(b)Both the
improvements and the property are used exclusively for convention activities or
athletic, recreational, entertainment, artistic or cultural facilities.
2.Improvements that are
located on federal, state, county or municipal property and owned by the lessee
of the property if:
(a)The improvements are
required to become the property of the federal, state, county or municipal
owner of the property on termination ofthe leasehold interest in the
property.
(b)Both the
improvements and the property are:
(i)Used for or in
connection with aviation, including hangars, tiedowns, aircraft
maintenance, sales of aviationrelated items, charter andrental
activities, parking facilities and restaurants, stores and otherservices
located in a terminal.
(ii)Located on a state,
county, city or town airport or a public airport operating pursuant to sections
288423, 288424 and 288425.
3.Property that is
defined as "contractor-acquired property" or
"government-furnished property" in the federal acquisition
regulations (48Code of Federal Regulations section 45.101) and that is
leased to or acquired by the government and used to perform a government
contract.
4.Property of a
corporation that is organized by or at the directionof this state or a
county, city or town to develop, construct, improve, repair, replace or own any
property, improvement, building or otherfacility to be used for public
purposes that the state, county, city ortown pledges to lease or
lease-purchase with state, county or municipal special or general revenues and
that is not otherwise exempt under chapter 11, article 3 of this title.
5.Real property and
improvements, including land, buildings, furniture and equipment, regardless of
ownership, that are leased for the entire valuation year to, and used
exclusively by, a nonprofit organization that is recognized under section
501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and that operates on the premises as a
charter school pursuant to section 15183 or that are leased for the
entire valuation year to, and used exclusively by, a nonprofit church,
religious assembly or religious institution.If only part of a
parcel of real property or improvements to real property is leased for
operation of a charter school or a church, religious assembly or religious
institution as provided by this paragraph, only the portion so leased qualifies
for classification under this section. A property owner who leases property to
a charter school or a church, religious assembly or religious institution as
provided by this paragraph shall file an affidavit with the county assessor
stating that the charter school or church, religious assembly or religious
institution shall be the sole beneficiary of the change in property tax
classification pursuant to this section and that the lease rate that is charged
to the charter school or church, religious assembly or religious institution is
consistent with the lease rates that are charged to other tenants of the
property or a fair market rate.
6.Real and personal property and improvements to
the property that are used as the primary residence of a qualifying veteran
with a disability that is owned by the veteran, by the veteran's spouse or
jointly by the veteran and the veteran's spouse, as provided by section
42-12058.For the purposes of this paragraph, a homesite that is
included in class nine may include:
(a)Up to ten acres on a single parcel of real property on which
the residential improvement is located.
(b)More than ten, but not more than forty, acres on a single
parcel of real property on which the residential improvement is located if it
is zoned exclusively for residential purposes or contains legal restrictions or
physical conditions that prevent the division of the parcel.For the
purposes of this subdivision, "physical conditions" means topography,
mountains, washes, rivers, roads or any other configuration that limits the
residential usable land area.
B.Improvements that are
located in an area defined as a research parkpursuant to section 35701
may not be classified under this section.
C.All property
classified as class nine is subject to valuation at full cash value. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 42-12052, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12052.Review and verification of class three and class nine
property; civil penalty; appeals
A.Each county assessor shall review assessment
information, on a continuing basis, to ensure proper classification of
residential dwellings. The assessor may enter into intergovernmental agreements
with the department for an exchange of information to ensure a coordinated and
comprehensive review and identification of property that may be rented while
classified as class three pursuant to section 4212003 or as class nine pursuant to section 42-12009, subsection A,
paragraph 6.
B.If the assessor has reason to believe that a
parcel of property that is classified as class three pursuant to section 4212003
or as class nine pursuant to section
42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6 is not used as the owner's primary
residence or as a qualifying family member residence pursuant to section 4212053,
the assessor shall notify the owner, in a form prescribed by the department as
provided by subsection D of this section, and request that the owner respond as
to whether the property meets the requirements of section 4212003, section 42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6
or section 4212053
or 42-12058, is a
secondary residence or is used as a rental property. If the owner fails to
respond to the assessor within thirty days after the notice is mailed, the
assessor shall mail the owner a final notice within thirty days requesting that
the owner provide information as to whether or not the property meets the
requirements of a primary residence,
or a secondary residence
or is used as a rental property. If the owner fails to respond to the assessor
within fifteen days after the final notice is mailed, the assessor shall:
1.Reclassify the
property as class four. In addition to other appeal procedures provided by
law, the owner of the property that is reclassified as class four under this
paragraph may appeal the reclassification to the county board of supervisors
within thirty days after the notice of classification is mailed. If the owner
proves to the board's satisfaction that the property is occupied as the owner's
primary residence, the board shall order the property to be reclassified as
class three property pursuant to section 4212003 or as class nine pursuant to section 42-12009, subsection A,
paragraph 6, as applicable.
2.Notify the county treasurer who shall assess a
civil penalty against the property equal to the amount of additional state aid
paid pursuant to section 15972 with respect to the property in the
preceding tax year.The civil penalty shall not be assessed if the
ownership of the property has changed after notification. The owner of the
property shall pay a penalty under this paragraph to the county treasurer
within thirty days after the notice of the penalty is mailed. The owner may
appeal the penalty to the county board of supervisors within the time required
for payment.If the owner proves to the board's satisfaction that
the property is occupied by the owner, the board shall waive the penalty, and
the property shall be listed as class three pursuant to section 4212003 or as class nine pursuant to section
42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6, as applicable.Until
paid or waived, the penalty constitutes a lien against the
property.The county treasurer shall deposit all revenue received
from penalties assessed under this paragraph in the county general fund.
C.Beginning in 2013 and during each elective term
of office thereafter, the
county assessor shall send notices under subsection B of this section to each
owner of property classified as class three pursuant to section 4212003 or class nine pursuant to section 42-12009,
subsection A, paragraph 6 described by any of the following:
1.The owner has a mailing address outside the
county in which the property is located.
2.The owner has a mailing address, other than a
post office box, that is different than the situs address of the property.
3.The owner has the same mailing address listed for
more than one parcel of class three property, or for class three and class nine property,
in this state.
4.The owner appears to be a business entity.
D.The department shall:
1.Prescribe all forms used to notify property
owners under this section.The forms shall contain information as to
criteria for the reclassification of property and the civil penalties that may
result if the owner fails to respond to the notice.
2.Monitor and review the procedures and practices
used by assessors and treasurers to accomplish the verification of class three property classification and the
assessment and collection of penalties prescribed by this section and propose
suggested improvements to establish uniform processes and performance among the
counties. 
E.The department may inspect the records of county
assessors and county treasurers to determine compliance with the requirements
of this section and the accuracy of the classification of owner-occupied
residential property and rental property. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section 42-12053, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12053.Criteria for distinguishing primary residential property,
secondary residential property and rental property
A.For the purpose of classifying residential
property under sections 4212003, 4212004 and 4212052, a
parcel is not considered a secondary property or rental property if the
property is occupied by a member of the owner's family, who must be:
1.The owner's natural or adopted child or a
descendant of the owner's child.
2.The owner's parent or an ancestor of the owner's
parent.
3.The owner's stepchild or stepparent.
4.The owner's child-in-law or parent-in-law.
5.The owner's natural or adopted sibling.
B.For the purpose of classifying owner-occupied
residential property under sections 4212003, 4212004 and 4212052
and section 42-12009, subsection A,
paragraph 6, the department shall adopt standard criteria for use
in determining whether the property is considered to be the owner's or
relative's primary residence, including:
1.The period of occupancy each year.
2.The owner's registered voting precinct.
3.The owner's driver license address.
4.The registration address of the owner's motor
vehicles.
5.Other appropriate indicators of primary residency.
END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 42-12054, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-12054.Change in classification of owner-occupied residence
A.If a person purchases or converts property that
is listed as class one pursuant to
section 4212001, paragraph 12 or 13, class two or class
four pursuant to article 1 of this chapter and occupies the property as the
person's primary residence, the person may have the classification reviewed for
change to class three from the date of conversion and occupancy as a primary
residence and may appeal from the decision resulting from the review in the
same manner as provided by law for review of a valuation for ad valorem
property taxes and appeal from that review.
B.If a person purchases or converts property that
is listed as class one pursuant to
section 4212001, paragraph 12 or 13, class two or class
four pursuant to article 1 of this chapter and the property is occupied by a
member of the owner's immediate family as described in section 4212053,
the person may have the classification reviewed for change to class three from
the date of occupancy and may appeal the decision resulting from the review in
the same manner as provided by law for review of a valuation for ad valorem
property taxes and appeal from that review.
C.If a
veteran with a disability rated at one hundred percent purchases or converts
property that is listed as class one pursuant to section 4212001,
paragraph 12 or 13 or as class two, class three or class four pursuant to
article 1 of this chapter and occupies the property as the veteran's primary
residence, the veteran may have the classification reviewed for change to class
nine pursuant to section 42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6 from the date of
occupancy and may appeal the decision resulting from the review in the same
manner as provided by law for review of a valuation for ad valorem property
taxes and appeal from that review.
C.D.If a person makes
such a conversion or occupancy or appeals the classification after the county
assessor has closed the rolls, the person may petition the county board of
supervisors to change the classification and reduce the assessed valuation from
the date of conversion or occupancy.
D.E.The board of
supervisors shall entertain the petition in the same manner as a board of
equalization hears a request for reduction in valuation.
E.F.The petitioner
may appeal the board of supervisors' decision in the same manner as provided in
section 4216111, except that the petitioner shall file the notice of
appeal within fifteen days after the board's finding.
F.G.If the board of
supervisors finds that the property is in fact being used for the owner's
primary residence and should be listed as class three property pursuant to section 42-12003 or as class nine property
pursuant to section 42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6, it the board shall change the classification on
the roll and fix the assessed valuation from the date of
occupancy.The amount of taxes that is assessed against the property
shall be computed by applying the current tax rate to the original assessed
valuation prorated for the portion of the tax year before the property was currently occupied plus the
current tax rate applied to the reassessed value of the property prorated for
the balance of the year.
G.H.The board of
supervisors shall notify the department, assessor and county treasurer of the
change in classification, the change in assessed valuation and the amount of
tax assessed.The department and the assessor may appeal any such
decision in the same manner as provided in section 4216111.The
assessor and treasurer shall note the change on their records, and the treasurer
may issue a future tax credit, endorsed by the board, to the person whose
property is liable for the tax.The tax credit shall be used on the
next or several succeeding property tax assessments that the person may owe
thereafter. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Title
42, chapter 12, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 42-12058, to read:
START_STATUTE42-12058.Criteria for class nine classification; veterans with a
disability; definitions
A.For the
purpose of classifying residential property as class nine under section
42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6:
1.The
property must be owned:
(a)By a
veteran who has a service-connected disability of one hundred percent, as rated
by the United States department of veterans affairs, that was sustained while
serving in the armed forces of the United States. Any question regarding the
person's status as a veteran or as having a claimed service-connected
disability must be verified by the United States department of veterans affairs
or by the department of veterans' services.
(b)Solely
by the unmarried surviving spouse of a DECEASED veteran who was killed in
action or who died as a result of injury incurred while serving on active duty
in the armed forces of the United States.
2.The
veteran, or the veteran's surviving spouse, must occupy the property as the
person's primary residence. The property may be considered to be the primary
residence of a veteran who is confined to a hospital or other care facility if
the property would be the veteran's primary residence were it not for the
veteran's confinement and if the property is not leased or rented to another
occupant other than a family member who resides at the property.
B.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Primary
residence" means an owner-occupied dwelling, including a manufactured
home, that is owned by and used as the primary dwelling place of the veteran or
the veteran's surviving spouse.A primary residence may consist of
part of a multidwelling or multipurpose building and part of the land on which
the building is located.
2."Veteran"
means an individual who has served in, and been discharged, separated or
released under honorable conditions from, active or inactive service in the
uniformed services of the united states, including:
(a)All
regular, reserve and national guard components of the United States army, navy,
air force, marine corps and coast guard.
(b)The
commissioned corps of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration.
(c)The
commissioned corps of the United States public health service.
(d)A
nurse in the service of the American red cross or in the army and navy nurse
corps.
(e)Any
other civilian service that is authorized by federal law to be considered
active military duty for the purpose of laws administered by the United States
secretary of veterans affairs. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Section
42-15102, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-15102.Notice information entered by assessor
A.The assessor shall
include in the assessment notice:
1.The full cash value found by the assessor for the
property for the preceding valuation year.
2.The classification of the property pursuant to
chapter 12 of this title.
3.The mailing date of the notice.
4.The last date on which the owner may file an
appeal from the valuation or classification assigned to the property.
B.Except for property that is listed as class three
property under section 4212003, owner-occupied residential property that
is listed as class four property under section 4212004, subsection A,
paragraph 1, and single family rented residential
property that is listed as class four property under section 4212004,
subsection A, paragraph 2 and the
primary residence of a veteran with a disability that is listed as class nine
property under section 42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6, the
notice shall separately list the full cash value of the land and the full cash
value of the improvement or improvements associated with the land. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Section 42-15103, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE42-15103.Contents of notice form
The notice form shall:
1.Prominently display a statement for all
residential properties:
(a)Which
That defines class three
properties as described in section 4212003.
(b)Informing property owners that if the property
listed on the notice does not meet the definition
description provided
pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section
paragraph, the owner must
notify the county assessor of the usage of the property or they the
owner may be subject to a civil penalty prescribed by section 4212052.
2.Prominently
display a statement for residential properties classified as class nine
pursuant to section 42-12009, subsection A, paragraph 6 listing the
requirements for classification and informing the property owner that if the
property listed on the notice and the ownership do not meet those requirements,
the owner must notify the county assessor of the current usage of the property
or the owner may be subject to a civil penalty prescribed by section 42-12052.
2.3.Include
simplified instructions on the procedure and deadlines for appealing the
assessed valuation shown on the notice.
3.4.Prominently
display a statement informing owners of property that is used for residential
rental purposes that:
(a)The parcel must be listed on the notice as class
four, and the owner must register the residential rental property with the
county assessor pursuant to section 331902 or the owner may be subject
to a penalty.
(b)If the owner is required to register the rental
property with the county assessor and fails to do so after receipt of this
notice, the city or town may impose a civil penalty payable to the city or town
in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars per day for each day of violation,
and the city or town may impose enhanced inspection and enforcement measures on
the property.
(c)If the city or town in which the property is
located requires the lessor to pay transaction privilege tax on residential
rent, a notice of applicable requirements imposed by the city or town and that
failure to pay the applicable tax could result in a penalty or fine by the city
or town.
(d)Residential rental properties are required to
comply with the landlord tenant law pursuant to title 33, chapters 10 and 11. END_STATUTE

