







REFERENCE TITLE: commerce authority; sunset continuation;
  reforms







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1426









Introduced by
Senator
  Farnsworth D





AN ACT

Amending sections
5-572, 41-1502, 41-1503 and 41-1504, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title
41, chapter 10, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
41-1504.01; amending section 411506, arizona revised statutes; repealing
title 41, chapter 10, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section
41-2706, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 41-3016.29, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 413018.01; amending sections 43-409,
44-1843, 44-1861, 44-1892, 44-3324 and 443325, Arizona Revised Statutes;
relating to the Arizona Commerce Authority.



(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 5-572, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE5-572.Use of monies in state lottery fund; report
A.If there are any bonds or bond related
obligations payable from the state lottery revenue bond debt service fund, the
state lottery revenue bond debt service fund shall be secured by a first lien
on the monies in the state lottery fund after the payment of operating costs of
the lottery, as prescribed in section 5555, subsection A, paragraph 1,
until the state lottery bond debt service fund contains sufficient monies to
meet all the requirements for the current period as required by the bond
documents. Debt service for revenue bonds issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be paid first from monies that would have otherwise been deposited
pursuant to this section in the state general fund. After the requirements for
the current period have been satisfied as required by the bond documents, the
monies in the state lottery fund shall be expended for the expenses of the
commission incurred in carrying out its powers and duties and in the operation
of the lottery.
B.Of the monies remaining in the state lottery fund
each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits authorized in subsection A
of this section, ten million dollars shall be deposited in the Arizona game and
fish commission heritage fund established by section 17297.
C.Of the monies remaining in the state lottery fund
each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits authorized in subsections A
and B of this section, five million dollars shall be allocated to the
department of child safety for the healthy families program established by
section 8481, four million dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona
board of regents for the Arizona area health education system established by
section 151643, three million dollars shall be allocated to the
department of health services to fund the teenage pregnancy prevention programs
established in Laws 1995, chapter 190, sections 2 and 3, two million dollars
shall be allocated to the department of health services for the health start
program established by section 36697, two million dollars shall be
deposited in the disease control research fund established by section 36274
and one million dollars shall be allocated to the department of health services
for the federal women, infants and children food program.The
allocations in this subsection shall be adjusted annually according to changes
in the GDP price deflator as defined in section 41563 and the
allocations are exempt from the provisions of section 35190 relating to
lapsing of appropriations. If there are not sufficient monies available
pursuant to this subsection, the allocation of monies for each program shall be
reduced on a pro rata basis.
D.If the state lottery director determines that
monies available to the state general fund may not equal eightyfour
million one hundred fifty thousand dollars in a fiscal year, the director shall
not authorize deposits to the Arizona game and fish commission heritage fund
pursuant to subsectionB of this section until the deposits to the state
general fund equal eightyfour million one hundred fifty thousand dollars
in a fiscal year.
E.Of the monies remaining in the state lottery fund
each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits authorized in subsections A
through D of this section, one million dollars or the remaining balance in the
fund, whichever is less, is appropriated to the department of economic security
for grants to nonprofit organizations, including faith based organizations, for
homeless emergency and transitional shelters and related support services. The
department of economic security shall submit a report on the amounts,
recipients, purposes and results of each grant to the governor, the speaker of
the house of representatives and the president of the senate on or before
December 31 of each year for the prior fiscal year and shall provide a copy of
this report to the secretary of state.
F.Of the monies remaining in the state lottery fund
each fiscal year after appropriations and deposits authorized in subsections A
through E of this section, and after a total of at least ninetynine
million six hundred forty thousand dollars has been deposited in the state
general fund, three million five hundred
thousand dollars shall be deposited in the Arizona competes fund established by
section 411545.01. the balance in the state lottery fund remaining after deposits into the Arizona
competes fund shall be deposited in the university capital
improvement leaseto-own and bond fund established by section 151682.03,
up to a maximum of eighty percent of the total annual payments of lease-to-own
and bond agreements entered into by the Arizona board of regents.
G.All monies remaining in the state lottery fund
after the appropriations and deposits authorized in this section shall be
deposited in the state general fund.
H.Except for monies expended for debt service of
revenue bonds as provided in subsection A of this section, monies expended
under subsection A of this section are subject to legislative appropriation.
I.The commission shall transfer monies prescribed
in this section on a quarterly basis. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 41-1502, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1502.Arizona commerce authority; board of directors; conduct of
office; audit
A.The Arizona commerce authority is established.
The mission of the authority is to provide private sector leadership in growing
and diversifying the economy of this state, creating high quality employment in
this state through expansion, attraction and retention of businesses and
marketing this state for the purpose of expansion, attraction and retention of
businesses.
B.The authority shall be governed by a board of
directors consisting of:
1.The governor, who serves as chairperson.
2.The chief executive officer.
3.Seventeen private sector business leaders who are
chief executive officers of private, for-profit enterprises. None of these
members may be an elected official of any government entity. These members
must be appointed from geographically diverse areas of this state and not all
from the same county.These members shall serve staggered three-year
terms of office beginning and ending on the third Monday in January. These
members shall be appointed as follows:
(a)Nine members who are appointed by the governor.
(b)Four members who are appointed by the president
of the senate.
(c)Four members who are appointed by the speaker of
the house of representatives.
4.The following as ex officio members without the
power to vote:
(a)The president of the senate.
(b)The speaker of the house of representatives.
(c)The president of the Arizona board of regents.
(d)The president of each state university under the
jurisdiction of the Arizona board of regents.
(e)One president of a community college who is
appointed by a statewide organization of community college presidents.
(f)The chairperson of the governor's council on
small business, or its successor.
(g)The chairperson of the governor's council on
workforce policy, if established by executive order pursuant to section 411542.
(h)One member of the rural business development
advisory council established by section 411505 who is appointed by the
governor.
(i)The president of a statewide organization of
incorporated cities and towns who is appointed by the governor.
(j)The president of a statewide organization of
county boards of supervisors who is appointed by the governor.
C.The following shall serve as technical advisors
to the board to enhance collaboration among state agencies to meet
infrastructure needs and facilitate growth opportunities throughout this state:
1.The director of environmental quality.
2.The state land commissioner.
3.The director of the department of revenue.
4.The director of the office of tourism.
5.The director of the department of transportation.
6.The director of water resources.
7.The director of the department of financial
institutions.
8.The director of the Arizona-Mexico commission in
the governor's office.
D.The governor shall appoint a cochairperson of the
board of directors from among the voting members.The board may
establish an executive committee consisting of the chairperson, the
cochairperson, the chief executive officer, and additional voting members of
the board elected by the board. The chairperson may appoint subcommittees as
necessary.
E.The board may request assistance from
representatives of other state agencies to maximize economic development
opportunities by leveraging their access to strategic assets and planning
processes.
F.Board members serve without compensation but are
eligible for reimbursement of expenses pursuant to section 411504,
subsection E, paragraph 1.
G.A majority of the voting members, which must
include the chairperson and the chief executive officer, constitute a quorum
for the purpose of an official meeting for conducting business. An affirmative
vote of a majority of the members present at an official meeting is sufficient
for any action to be taken.
H.The board of directors shall keep and maintain a
complete and accurate record of all of its proceedings. Public access to the
board's records is subject to section 411504, subsection L.
I.The board of directors, executive committee,
subcommittees and advisory councils are subject to title 38, chapter 3, article
3.1, relating to public meetings, except as follows:
1.In addition to section 38431.03, the board
of directors, executive committee and subcommittees may meet in executive
session for discussion about potential business development opportunities and
strategies, which, if made public, could potentially harm the applicant's, the
potential applicant's or this state's competitive position.
2.Social and travel events related to the
expansion, attraction and retention of businesses are not public meetings if no
legal action involving a final vote or decision is taken.
3.Activities and events held in public for the
purpose of announcing the expansion, attraction and retention of projects are
not public meetings.
J.The board of directors and the officers and
employees of the authority are subject to title 38, chapter 3, article 8,
relating to conflicts of interest.
K.The board of directors shall adopt written
policies, procedures and guidelines for standards of conduct, including a gift
policy, for members of the board and for officers and employees of the
authority.
L.The board
of directors shall adopt written policies, procedures and guidelines regarding
compensation of all officers and employees of the authority. On or before May
31 of each year, the board shall review the compensation and benefit package of
each officer and employee for the following fiscal year. The compensation and
benefits for each officer and employee must be approved by two-thirds of the
members of the board.
L.M.The authority
shall operate on the state fiscal year. The board of directors shall cause an
annual audit to be conducted on or before October 31 of each of the authority's
public funds established by this chapter by an independent certified public
accountant. The board shall immediately file a certified copy of the audit
with the auditor general. The auditor general may make such further audits and
examinations as necessary and may take appropriate action relating to the audit
or examination pursuant to chapter 7, article 10.1 of this title. If the
auditor general takes no further action within thirty days after the audit is
filed, the audit is considered to be sufficient.
M.N.All state
agencies shall cooperate with the authority and make available data pertaining
to the functions of the authority as requested by the authority. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 41-1503, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1503.Chief executive officer
A.The board of directors shall employ a chief
executive officer and prescribe the terms and conditions of the chief executive
officer's employment. The chief executive officer serves at the pleasure of
the board under the terms of a performance based contract. The board shall prescribe the compensation and benefits of
the chief executive officer as provided by section 41-1502, subsection L.
B.The chief executive officer is responsible for
managing, administering and supervising the activities of the authority.
C.The chief executive officer shall negotiate,
make, execute, acknowledge and perform contracts and other agreements in the
interest of the authority or to carry out or accomplish the purposes of this
chapter. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section 41-1504, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1504.Powers and duties; e-verify requirement
A.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, may:
1.Adopt and use a corporate seal.
2.Sue and be sued.
3.Enter into contracts as necessary to carry out
the purposes and requirements of this chapter, including intergovernmental
agreements pursuant to title 11, chapter 7, article 3 and interagency service
agreements as provided by section 35148.
4.Lease real property and improvements to real
property for the purposes of the authority. Leases by the authority are exempt
from chapter 4, article 7 of this title, relating to management of state
properties.
5.Employ or retain legal counsel and other
consultants as necessary to carry out the purposes of the authority.
6.Develop and use written policies, procedures and
guidelines for the terms and conditions of employing officers and employees of
the authority and may include background checks of appropriate personnel.
B.The board of directors, on behalf of the
authority, shall:
1.Develop comprehensive long-range strategic
economic plans for this state and submit the plans to the governor.
2.Annually update a strategic economic plan for
submission to the governor.
3.Accept gifts, grants and loans and enter into
contracts and other transactions with any federal or state agency,
municipality, private organization or other source.
C.The authority shall:
1.Assess and collect fees for processing
applications and administering incentives. The board shall adopt the manner of
computing the amount of each fee to be assessed. Within thirty days after
proposing fees for adoption, the chief executive officer shall submit a schedule
of the fees for review by the joint legislative budget committee. It is the
intent of the legislature that a fee shall not exceed one per cent percent of the amount of the incentive.
2.Determine and collect registry fees for the
administration of the allocation of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Such monies
collected by the authority shall be deposited, pursuant to sections 35146
and 35147, in an authority bond fund. Monies in the fund shall be used,
subject to annual appropriation by the legislature, by the authority to
administer the allocations provided in this paragraph and are exempt from the
provisions of section 35190 relating to the lapsing of appropriations.
3.Determine and collect security deposits for the
allocation, for the extension of allocations and for the difference between
allocations and principal amounts of federal tax exempt industrial development
bonds and student loan bonds authorized by the authority. Security deposits
forfeited to the authority shall be deposited in the state general fund.
4.At the direction of the board, establish and
supervise the operations of full-time or part-time offices in other states and
foreign countries for the purpose of expanding direct investment and export
trade opportunities for businesses and industries in this state if, based on
objective research, the authority determines that the effort would be
beneficial to the economy of this state.
5.Establish a program by which entrepreneurs become
aware of permits, licenses or other authorizations needed to establish, expand
or operate in this state.
6.Be the state registration agency for
apprenticeship functions prescribed by the federal government.
D.The authority, through the chief executive
officer, may:
1.Contract and incur obligations reasonably
necessary or desirable within the general scope of the authority's activities
and operations to enable the authority to adequately perform its duties.
2.Use monies, facilities or services to provide
matching contributions under federal or other programs that further the
objectives and programs of the authority.
3.Accept gifts, grants, matching monies or direct
payments from public or private agencies or private persons and enterprises for
the conduct of programs that are consistent with the general purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
4.Assess business fees for promotional services
provided to businesses that export products and services from this state. The
fees shall not exceed the actual costs of the services provided.
5.Establish and maintain one or more accounts in
banks or other depositories, for public or private monies of the authority,
from which operational activities, including payroll, vendor and grant payments,
may be conducted. Individual funds that are established by law under the
jurisdiction of the authority may be maintained in separate accounts in banks
or other depositories, but shall not be commingled with any other monies or
funds of the authority.
E.The chief executive officer shall:
1.Hire employees and prescribe the terms and
conditions of their employment as necessary to carry out the purposes of the
authority. The board of directors
shall prescribe the compensation and benefits of the officers and employees of
the authority as provided by section 41-1502, subsection L.The
board of directors shall
adopt written policies, procedures and guidelines, similar to those adopted by
the department of administration, regarding officer and employee compensation, observed
holidays, leave and reimbursement of travel expenses and health and accident
insurance.The officers and employees of the authority are exempt
from any laws regulating state employment, including:
(a)Chapter 4, articles 5 and 6 of this title,
relating to state service.
(b)Title 38, chapter 4, article 1 and chapter 5,
article 2, relating to state personnel compensation, leave and retirement.
(c)Title 38, chapter 4, article 2, relating to
reimbursement of state employee expenses.
(d)Title 38, chapter 4, article 4, relating to
health and accident insurance.
2.On a quarterly basis, provide public record data
in a manner prescribed by the department of administration related to the
authority's revenues and expenditures for inclusion in the comprehensive
database of receipts and expenditures of state monies pursuant to section 41725.
F.In addition to any other requirement, in order to
qualify for any grant, loan, reimbursement, tax incentive or other economic
development incentive pursuant to this chapter, an applicant that is an
employer must register with and participate in the e-verify program in
compliance with section 23214. The authority shall require verification
of compliance with this subsection as part of any application process.
G.Notwithstanding any other law, the authority is
subject to chapter 3.1, article 1 of this title, relating to risk management.
H.The authority is exempt from chapter 32, articles
1 and 2 of this title, relating to statewide information technology. The
authority shall adopt policies, procedures and guidelines regarding information
technology.
I.The authority is exempt from state general
accounting and finance practices and rules adopted pursuant to chapter 4,
article 3 of this title, but the board shall adopt written accounting
practices, systems and procedures for the economic and efficient operation of
the authority.
J.The authority is exempt from section 41712,
relating to the installation and maintenance of telecommunications telecommunication systems.
K.The authority may lease or purchase motor
vehicles for use by employees to conduct business activities. The authority is
exempt from section 41803, relating to the state motor vehicle fleet,
and title 38, chapter 3, article 10, relating to vehicle usage and markings.
L.Any tangible or intangible record submitted to or
compiled by the board or the authority in connection with its work, including
the award of monies, is subject to title 39, chapter 1, unless an applicant
shows, or the board or authority determines, that specific information meets
either of the following:
1.If made public, the information would divulge the
applicant's or potential applicant's trade secrets, as defined in section 44401.
2.If made public, the information could potentially
harm the applicant's, the potential
applicant's or this state's competitive position relating to potential business
development opportunities and strategies.
M.The authority is exempt from chapter 25, article
1 of this title, relating to government competition with private enterprise. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Title 41, chapter 10, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 41-1504.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-1504.01.Regulatory ombudsman
A.The
office of regulatory ombudsman is established in the Arizona commerce
authority. The board of directors shall employ the ombudsman and prescribe the
terms and conditions of the ombudsman's employment.The ombudsman
serves at the pleasure of the board under the terms of a performancebased
contract. The board may provide for assistant ombudsmen and administrative
staff as necessary to handle the workload of the office.
B.The
ombudsman shall:
1.provide
information regarding licenses, permits, identifications, registrations, fees,
taxes and other governmental requirements that may affect the startup of
new businesses in this state.
2.Assist
new and existing businesses in this state that encounter regulatory issues from
state and local governmental requirements.
C.At the
request of a business owner, the ombudsman shall intervene on behalf of and
advocate for the business owner and hear, investigate, evaluate and attempt to
resolve regulatory or procedural complaints by agreement, mediation or
conciliation.
D.The
ombudsman may not provide legal advice but may provide information about rules,
regulations, policies and procedures at administrative and appellate levels of
government.
e.the
ombudsman shall:
1.Adopt
rules, procedures and policies:
(a)For
receiving and processing requests and complaints.
(b)To
ensure that confidential information is not disclosed.
(c)For
notifying regulatory agencies of an intention to investigate or intervene,
unless notice would unduly hinder or impair a successful investigation.
2.Follow,
and semiannually provide an online report of, regulatory actions completed and
in process. The report shall include an analysis of cases determined
meritorious or dismissed, systemic issues considered and proposed and completed
resolutions.
3.Host
public seminars and other forums, without charge, for discussion and guidance
in starting and conducting business.
4.Survey
small employers and identify chronic regulatory challenges and barriers that
impede attainment of efficient and successful enterprise.
5.Based on
data from cases and surveys, advocate for pro-business policies, rules,
regulations, ordinances and procedures at state and local levels of government.
END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section 41-1506, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-1506.Arizona commerce authority fund
A.The Arizona commerce authority fund is
established consisting of withholding tax revenues allocated to the fund from
the job creation withholdings clearing account pursuant to section 43409,
subsection B, paragraph 1.Monies
credited to the fund may be deposited in the state treasury or in a bank or
other depository approved by the board of directors pursuant to section 411504,
subsection D, paragraph 5.
B.The chief executive officer shall administer the
fund. On notice from the chief executive officer, the state treasurer shall
invest and divest any monies in the fund deposited in the state treasury as
provided by section 35313, and monies earned from investment shall be
credited to the fund. Monies in the fund are exempt from the provisions of section
35190 relating to lapsing of appropriations.
C.The chief executive officer shall use the monies
in the fund exclusively for the purposes of this chapter without further
legislative authorization. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Repeal
Title 41, chapter 10, article 5, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
repealed.
Sec.8.Section 41-2706, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE41-2706.Applicability of chapter
A.This chapter applies to the solicitation of
grants initiated after August 6, 1999.
B.This chapter does not apply to:
1.Any grant program that was exempt from chapter
23, article 3 of this title and for which administrative rules establishing
grant solicitation procedures were adopted pursuant to chapter 6 of this title
before August 6, 1999.
2.The Arizona board of regents and schools,
colleges, institutions and universities under its control if the Arizona board
of regents adopts rules or policies governing the award of grants that
encourage as much competition as practicable.
3.Grants made by the cotton research and protection
council for research programs related to cotton production or protection.
4.Grants made by the Arizona iceberg lettuce
research council for research programs under section 3526.02, subsection
C, paragraph 3 or 5.
5.Grants made by the Arizona citrus research
council for research programs under section 3468.02, subsection C,
paragraph 3 or 5.
6.Grants made by the Arizona grain research and
promotion council for research projects and programs under section 3584,
subsection C, paragraph5.
7.Grants made under section 3268, subsection
C.
8.Grants made
by the Arizona commerce authority from the Arizona competes fund pursuant to
chapter 10, article 5 of this title. With respect to other grants, the
authority shall adopt policies, procedures and practices, in consultation with
the department of administration, that are similar to and based on the policies
and procedures prescribed by this chapter for the purpose of increased public
confidence, fair and equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process
and fostering broad competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the
authority's statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies,
procedures and practices available to the public.
9.8.Grants of less
than five thousand dollars from the veterans' donations fund if the department
of veterans' services adopts rules or policies governing these grants that
encourage as much competition as practicable.
C.The
Arizona commerce authority, in consultation with the department of
administration, shall adopt policies, procedures and practices for making
grants that are similar to and based on the policies and procedures prescribed
by this chapter for the purpose of increased public confidence, fair and
equitable treatment of all persons engaged in the process and fostering broad
competition while accomplishing flexibility to achieve the authority's
statutory requirements. The authority shall make its policies, procedures and
practices available to the public. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Repeal
Section 41-3016.29,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.10.Title
41, chapter 27, article 2, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding
section 41-3018.01, to read:
START_STATUTE41-3018.01.Arizona commerce authority; termination July 1, 2018
A.The Arizona commerce authority terminates on
July 1, 2018.
B.Title 41, chapter 10 is repealed on January 1,
2019. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Section 43-409, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-409.Job creation withholdings clearing account
A.The job creation withholdings clearing account is
established consisting of the sum of twenty-six
ten million five hundred thousand dollars of
withholding tax revenues in fiscal year
20152016 and twentyone million five hundred thousand dollars for
each fiscal year after 20152016.
B.On the twentieth day of each month the state
treasurer shall credit the following
amounts from the clearing account:
1.to
the Arizona commerce authority fund established by section 411506,
one-twelfth of the annual sum of ten million dollars in each fiscal year.
2.To the
Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01, onetwelfth
of the annual sum of sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars in fiscal
year 20152016 and eleven million five hundred thousand dollars for each
fiscal year after 20152016. END_STATUTE
Sec.12.Section 44-1843, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1843.Exempt securities; filing
A.Sections 441841 and 441842, section
441843.02, subsections B and C and sections 443321 and 443325
do not apply to any of the following classes of securities:
1.Securities issued or guaranteed by the United
States, by any state, territory or insular possession of the United States, by
any political subdivision of such state, territory or insular possession, by
the District of Columbia or by any agency or instrumentality of one or more of
any of the foregoing. This exemption shall not apply to securities regulated
pursuant to section 441843.01.
2.Securities issued by a national bank, a bank or a
credit or loan association organized pursuant to an act of Congress and
supervised by the United States or an agency of the United States, or issued by
a state bank or savings institution the business of which is supervised and
regulated by an agency of this state or of the United States.
3.Securities issued by a savings and loan
association subject to supervision by an agency of this state.
4.Insurance or endowment policies, variable
contracts, annuity contracts or optional annuity contracts issued by a person
subject to the supervision of and licensed by the insurance commissioner, the
bank commissioner or any agency of the United States, any state or the District
of Columbia performing like functions.
5.Securities issued or guaranteed either as to
principal, interest or dividend by a railroad or public utility if the issuance
of its securities is regulated by an agency of the United States, a state,
territory or insular possession of the United States, an agency of the District
of Columbia or an agency of the Dominion of Canada or any province of the
Dominion of Canada, and also equipment trust certificates in respect to
equipment conditionally sold or leased to a railroad or public utility, if
other securities issued by such railroad or public utility would be exempt
under this paragraph.
6.Securities issued by a person that is organized
and operated exclusively for religious, educational, benevolent, fraternal,
charitable or reformatory purposes and not for pecuniary profit, and no part of
the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any person, private
stockholder or individual and securities issued by or any interest or
participation in any pooled income fund, collective trust fund, collective
investment fund or similar fund that is excluded from the definition of an investment
company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the investment company act of
1940.The exemption prescribed in this paragraph does not apply to
any of the following, unless excluded from the definition of an investment
company under section 3(c)(10)(B) of the investment company act of 1940:
(a)Securities made liens upon on
revenue producing property subject to taxation. 
(b)Securities issued by a nonprofit organization
that is engaged in, intends to engage in, controls, finances or lends funds or
property to other entities engaged in the construction, operation, maintenance
or management of a hospital, sanitarium, rest home, clinic, medical hotel,
mortuary, cemetery, mausoleum or other similar facilities.
(c)Interest bearing or noninterest bearing debt
securities except for first mortgage bonds issued by individual churches and
affiliated religious schools in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed
twentyfive million dollars by any one single issuer provided that no
commission or remuneration of any kind, other than transfer agent's fees, is
paid, directly or indirectly, to any person other than a registered dealer or
registered salesman in connection with the offer for sale or sale of such
bonds.
(d)Securities whose terms include significant features
that are common to debt securities and that the commission finds are the
functional equivalent of debt securities.
7.Securities listed or approved for listing upon on the issuance thereof upon on
the New York stock exchange, the American stock exchange, the
midwest stock exchange or any other national securities exchange that is
registered under the securities exchange act of 1934 and that is designated by
the commission as provided in this paragraph, and securities designated or
approved for designation on notice of issuance on the national market system of
a national securities association registered under the securities exchange act
of 1934, and all securities senior or equal in rank to any securities so listed
or approved for listing, designated or approved for designation or represented
by subscription rights or warrants that have been so listed, designated or
approved and any warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to any of the
foregoing. In addition to the securities exchanges prescribed in this
paragraph, the commission may by order designate any registered national
securities exchange if it finds that it would be in the public interest for
securities listed on the exchange to be exempt. The commission may at any time
by order withdraw a designation of an exchange or association made under this
paragraph.
8.Commercial paper that arises out of a current
transaction or the proceeds of which have been or are to be used for current
transactions, that evidences an obligation to pay cash within nine months of
the date of issuance or sale, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal of
such paper that is likewise limited, or any guarantee of such paper or of any
such renewal.
9.Securities issued or guaranteed by any foreign
government with which the United States is at the time of the sale maintaining
diplomatic relations, or securities issued or guaranteed by a political
subdivision of such foreign government having the power of taxation, if none of
the securities of the foreign government or political subdivision are in
default either as to principal or interest, and which securities when offered
for sale in this state are acknowledged as valid obligations by the foreign
government or political subdivision and registered under the securities act of
1933.
10.Notes or bonds secured by a mortgage or deed of
trust on real estate or chattels, or a contract or agreement for the sale of
real estate or chattels, if the entire mortgage, contract or agreement together
with all notes or bonds secured thereby is sold or offered for sale as a unit,
except for real property investment contracts.
11.Mortgage related securities, as defined in
section 3(a)(41) of the securities exchange act of 1934.
B.Issuers of
securities that are exempt under subsection A, paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 of this
section, within thirty days after the first sale of the securities in this
state, shall pay to the commission a fee of two hundred dollars for each
offering, and the commission shall deposit the fees in the Arizona competes
fund established by section 411545.01.
C.B.Any securities
that are offered and sold pursuant to section 4(5) of the securities act of
1933 or that are mortgage related securities as the term is defined in section
3(a)(41) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are not preempted by federal
law. These instruments, commonly referred to as private mortgage backed
securities, may be exempt from the registration requirements of this chapter if
the transaction or the securities are otherwise exempt under this chapter.
This subsection specifically overrides the preemption of state law contained in
section 106(c) of the secondary mortgage market enhancement act of 1984 (P.L.
98440).
D.Noncompliance
with the requirements in subsection B of this section to pay fees shall not
result in the loss of the exemption allowed by this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section 44-1861, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1861.Fees; deposit; abandonment
A.By the affirmative vote of at least four
commissioners, the commission may establish by rule an annual fee for the
registration of a dealer or a salesman. The fee shall be remitted on or before
the last working day of December, and the commission shall deposit the fee,
pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039.
B.The registration fee for any dealer who deals
exclusively in securities of which the dealer is the issuer is one hundred
dollars.
C.For registration of securities by description,
there shall be paid to the commission a nonrefundable registration fee of
one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate
offering price of the securities that are to be sold in this state, but in no
event shall the registration fee be less than two hundred dollars nor more than
two thousand dollars. The amount by
which a registration fee exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars shall be
allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01.
D.By the affirmative vote of at least four
commissioners, the commission may establish by rule a transfer fee for a
salesman transferring the salesman's registration from one registered dealer to
another registered dealer. The commission shall deposit the fee, pursuant to
sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities regulatory and
enforcement fund established by section 442039.
E.The initial filing of a form required for safe
harbor exemptions provided for in the securities act of 1933 (15 United States
Code section 77(a) et seq.) pursuant to the rules of the commission shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars, of which fifty dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona
competes fund established by section 41-1545.01. The final
filing of the form, if separate from the initial filing, shall be accompanied
by a filing fee of one hundred dollars that
is allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section 41-1545.01.
F.For a name change of securities registered by
qualification or description, a filing fee of one hundred dollars is payable to
the commission.
G.For filing a notice required by the commission by
rule pursuant to section 441845, a filing fee of one hundred dollars is
payable to the commission.
H.For filing a petition pursuant to section 441846,
a filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars is payable to the commission.
I.Except as provided in subsections A, C, D, E and P of this section, and
section 441843 and
section 441892, paragraph 3, all fees collected under this
chapter shall be deposited in the state general fund.
J.An issuer who sells securities in this state in
excess of the aggregate amount of securities registered in this state, while
the registration is still effective, may apply to register the excess
securities by paying three times the difference between the initial
registration fee paid and the registration fee required under subsection C of
this section or section 441892, paragraph 3. Registration of the excess
securities, if granted, is effective retroactively to the date of the existing
registration.
K.An application for registration of securities or
registration of a dealer or salesman or an incomplete notice filing is deemed
abandoned if both:
1.The application or notice filing has been on file
with the commission for at least six months or the applicant or notice filer
has failed to respond to a request for information for at least two months
after the date of the request.
2.The applicant or notice filer has failed to
respond to the commission's notice of warning of abandonment within sixty
calendar days after the date of the warning.
L.The commission shall retain fees collected in
connection with abandoned applications or notice filings for deposit in the
state general fund.
M.The nonrefundable filing fee for a request for a
noaction letter from the securities division is two hundred dollars.
N.The nonrefundable filing fee for an application for
registration pursuant to section 441902 is two hundred fifty dollars.
O.The fee for submitting fingerprint cards to the
department of public safety is the fee required by that department.
P.Any securities exchange established in this state
shall pay to the commission on or before March 15 of each calendar year an
exchange registration fee in an amount equal to twotenths of one cent
for each share, bond or option or any other single unit of a security that is
exchanged during each preceding calendar year. The commission shall deposit
the fee, pursuant to sections 35146 and 35147, in the securities
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 442039 for the
purpose of regulating the securities exchange. The commission, by rule, may
exempt any sale of securities or any class of sales of securities from the fee
imposed by this subsection if it finds that an exemption is consistent with the
public interest and the equal regulation of the market and brokers and dealers.
END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section
44-1892, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-1892.Documents required for application for registration by
qualification; fee
Application for registration of
securities by qualification shall be made by the issuer of the securities by
filing with the commission the following documents:
1.An application for registration of securities by
qualification as provided by section 441893.
2.A prospectus as provided by section 441894,
except as provided in section 441901.
3.A nonrefundable registration fee of one-tenth of
one per cent percent of the aggregate
offering price of securities to be sold in this state, but the registration fee
shall not be less than two hundred nor more than two thousand dollars. The amount by which a registration fee exceeds
one thousand five hundred dollars shall be allocated to the Arizona competes
fund established by section 411545.01.
4.A consent to service of process as provided by
section 441862, if the issuer is not domiciled in this state and is not
an entity organized under the laws of this state. END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 44-3324, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-3324.Notice filing fees
A.When filing its initial notice filing, an
open-end company shall pay a nonrefundable notice filing fee for sales to be
made during the initial notice period. The openend company may elect to
pay either a minimum fee of two hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three
thousand five hundred dollars.If paying the maximum fee, an
open-end company is not required to file a sales report at the expiration of
the notice period.
B.An openend company that renews its notice
filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection B shall pay both of
the following nonrefundable notice filing fees no later than the expiration of
the current notice period:
1.For sales to be made during the current fiscal
year, the open-end company may elect to pay either a minimum fee of two hundred
dollars or a maximum fee of three thousand five hundred dollars. If paying the
maximum fee, an openend company is not required to file a sales report
at the time of its next renewal notice filing.
2.A fee for sales that occurred during the prior
fiscal year, as those sales are reported pursuant to section 443323,
subsection C. The fee is equal to onetenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of securities
actually sold in this state during the prior fiscal year minus two hundred
dollars, but in no event more than three thousand three hundred dollars. If
the maximum fee was previously paid for the prior fiscal year, the openend
company is not required to pay any additional fees under this paragraph.
C.An open-end company that does not renew its
notice filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection B and that
did not previously pay the maximum fee for the notice period shall pay a
nonrefundable notice filing fee no later than two months after the expiration
of its current notice period for sales that occurred during the prior fiscal
year and during the two month period from the end of the prior fiscal year to
the expiration of the notice period, as those sales are reported pursuant to
section 443323, subsection D. The fee is equal to one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of
securities actually sold in this state during the prior fiscal year and during
the two month period from the end of the prior fiscal year to the expiration of
the notice period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event more than three
thousand three hundred dollars. If the maximum fee was previously paid for the
prior fiscal year, the openend company is not required to pay any
additional fees under this subsection.
D.When filing its initial notice filing, a unit
investment trust shall pay a nonrefundable notice filing fee for sales to be
made during the initial notice period. The unit investment trust may elect to
pay either a minimum fee of two hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three
thousand five hundred dollars. If paying the maximum fee, the unit investment
trust is not required to file a sales report at the end of the expiration of
the notice period.
E.A unit investment trust that elects to renew its
notice filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection C shall pay
both of the following nonrefundable notice filing fees:
1.For sales to be made during the renewal notice
period, a unit investment trust may elect to pay either a minimum fee of two
hundred dollars or a maximum fee of three thousand five hundred dollars. The
fee shall be paid no later than the expiration date of the current notice
period. If paying the maximum fee, a unit investment trust is not required to
file a sales report within two months after the expiration of the renewal
notice period.
2.A fee for sales that occurred during the expiring
notice period, as those sales are reported pursuant to section 443323,
subsection E. The fee shall be equal to onetenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate dollar amount of securities
actually sold in this state by the unit investment trust during the prior notice
period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event more than three thousand
three hundred dollars. The fee shall be paid no later than two months after
the expiration date of the prior notice period. If the maximum fee was
previously paid for the expiring notice period, the unit investment trust is
not required to pay any additional fees under this paragraph.
F.A unit investment trust that does not renew its
notice filing in accordance with section 443322, subsection C and that
did not previously pay the maximum fee for the notice period shall pay, within
two months after the expiration of the notice period, a nonrefundable notice
filing fee for sales that occurred during the prior notice period as such sales
are reported pursuant to section 443323, subsection F. The fee is equal
to one-tenth of one per cent
percent of the aggregate
dollar amount of securities actually sold in this state by the unit investment
trust during the prior notice period minus two hundred dollars, but in no event
more than three thousand three hundred dollars. If the maximum fee was
previously paid for the expiring notice period, the unit investment trust is
not required to pay any additional fees under this subsection.
G.An issuer that fails to timely file any sales
report required by section 443323 shall pay a late filing fee in the
amount of two hundred dollars. An issuer that fails to timely pay any notice
filing fees required pursuant to this section shall pay the required notice
filing fee together with a late payment fee equal to one-half of the amount of
the required notice filing fee.
H.The fees collected pursuant to this section shall
be deposited as follows:
1.Eighty per
cent eightyfive
percent in the securities regulatory and enforcement fund
established by section 442039.
2.Ten per
cent in the Arizona competes fund established by section 411545.01.
3.2.Ten per cent fifteen percent in the investment management
regulatory and enforcement fund established by section 443298. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section 44-3325, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE44-3325.Notice filings by closedend companies
A.Securities that are issued by a closedend
company may be offered for sale and sold in this state if the commission
receives all of the following from the closedend company:
1.The documents that are filed with the SEC and
that are required by the commission.
2.A consent to service of process.
3.A notice filing fee calculated pursuant to this
section.
B.A notice filing is effective and renewable on the
filing date with the commission or the effective date with the SEC, whichever
occurs last, and the notice filing is effective for one year from that date.
C.A closedend company shall include with the
company's notice filing a notice filing fee of one-tenth of one per cent percent of the aggregate offering price of securities sold
in this state, but the fee shall not be less than two hundred dollars and not
more than two thousand dollars. The
amount by which a notice filing fee exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars
shall be allocated to the Arizona competes fund established by section
41-1545.01.
D.A closed-end company shall file a report of all
sales of securities to persons in this state during the period of the notice
filing. The closedend company shall file the report with the commission
within sixty days after the termination date of the offering within this state
or the expiration date of the notice filing, whichever occurs first. A closedend
company that fails to timely file a report of sales shall pay a late filing fee
of two hundred dollars. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Purpose
Pursuant to section 41-2955, subsection B, Arizona Revised
Statutes, the legislature continues the Arizona commerce authority to
facilitate the beneficial economic growth and development of this state and to
promote prosperity through the development and protection of the legitimate
interests of Arizona business, industry and commerce within and outside this
state.
Sec.18.Retroactivity
Sections 9 and 10 of this act are effective retroactively to
July 1, 2016.

