







REFERENCE TITLE: human fetus; embryo; prohibited actions







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1474









Introduced by
Senators
  Barto, Allen S, Farnsworth D, Kavanagh, Lesko, Miranda, Smith, Yarbrough, Yee;
  Representatives Allen J, Barton, Borrelli, Boyer, Coleman, Finchem, Gowan,
  Leach, Mitchell, Montenegro, Olson, Petersen, Thorpe: Senators Begay, Biggs,
  Burges, Donahue, Griffin, Shooter; Representatives Bowers, Fann, Farnsworth
  E, Gray, Kern, Lawrence, Livingston, Lovas, Mesnard, Norgaard, Rivero, Shope,
  Weninger





AN ACT

Repealing section
362302, Arizona Revised Statutes; Amending Title 36, chapter 23, article
1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding a new section 362302; relating to
the protection of a fetus or embryo.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 36-2302, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Title 36, chapter 23, article 1, Arizona
Revised Statutes, is amended by adding a new section 36-2302, to read:
START_STATUTE36-2302.Human fetus or embryo; prohibitions; definitions
A.A person
may not use a human fetus or embryo or any part, organ or fluid of the fetus or
embryo resulting from an abortion in animal or human research, experimentation
or study or for transplantation, except for either of the following:
1.Diagnostic
or remedial procedures for the purpose of determining the life or health of the
human fetus or embryo or the mother or for preserving the life or health of the
human fetus or embryo or the mother.
2.A
pathological study.
B.A person
may not experiment on a human fetus or embryo who is intended to be aborted.
C.A person
may not perform or offer to perform an abortion for which part or all of the
justification or reason is that the human fetus or embryo or any part, organ or
fluid of the human fetus or embryo may be used for animal or human research,
experimentation or study or for transplantation.
D.A person
may not knowingly sell, transfer, distribute, give away, accept, use or attempt
to use any human fetus or embryo or any part, organ or fluid of the human fetus
or embryo resulting from an abortion in violation of this section.
E.A person
may not aid or abet the sale, transfer, distribution, other unlawful
disposition, acceptance, use or attempted use of a human fetus or embryo or any
part, organ or fluid of the human fetus or embryo resulting from an abortion in
violation of this section.
F.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Abortion"
has the same meaning as prescribed in section 36-2151.
2."Experimentation"
means the use of a human fetus or embryo or any part, organ or fluid of the
human fetus or embryo resulting from an abortion in any trial, test, procedure
or observation carried out with the goal of verifying, refuting or establishing
the validity of a hypothesis. experimentation does not include a pathological
study or a diagnostic or remedial test, procedure or observation that has the
purpose of determining the life or health of the human fetus or embryo or
preserving the life or health of the human fetus or embryo or the mother.
3."Pathological
study" means the examination of body tissue for diagnostic or forensic
purposes. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Construction
This act does not establish or
recognize a right to an abortion and does not make lawful an abortion that is
currently prohibited by law.
Sec.4.Severability
If a provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of the act that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

