







REFERENCE TITLE: unmanned aircraft; prohibited operations







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1449









Introduced by
Senator
  Kavanagh





AN ACT

amending section
132904, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending title 13, chapter 37, Arizona
Revised Statutes, by adding section 133729; relating to unmanned
aircraft.

(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 13-2904, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE13-2904.Disorderly conduct; classification
A.A person commits disorderly conduct if, with
intent to disturb the peace or quiet of a neighborhood, family or person, or
with knowledge of doing so, such person:
1.Engages in fighting, violent or seriously
disruptive behavior; or
2.Makes unreasonable noise; or
3.Uses abusive or offensive language or gestures to
any person present in a manner likely to provoke immediate physical retaliation
by such person; or
4.Makes any protracted commotion, utterance or
display with the intent to prevent the transaction of the business of a lawful
meeting, gathering or procession; or
5.Refuses to obey a lawful order to disperse issued
to maintain public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, a hazard or any
other emergency; or
6.Recklessly handles, displays or discharges a
deadly weapon or dangerous instrument.
7. Operates a model
aircraft or civil unmanned aircraft in dangerous proximity to a person or a
person's property unless the person has consented to the
operation.For the purposes of this paragraph, "model
aircraft" and "civil unmanned aircraft" have the same meanings
prescribed in section 133729.
B.Disorderly conduct under subsection A, paragraph
6 is a class 6 felony.Disorderly conduct under subsection A,
paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 or 7 is a class 1 misdemeanor. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Title 13, chapter 37, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended by adding section 13-3729, to read:
START_STATUTE13-3729.Prohibited operation of model or unmanned aircraft; state
preemption; definitions
A.A person
may not operate a model aircraft or a civil unmanned aircraft if the operation:
1.Is
prohibited by a federal law or regulation that governs aeronautics.
2.Violates
a temporary flight restriction or notice to airman that is issued by the
federal aviation administration.
3.Interferes
in the operation of a manned aircraft.
4.Interferes
with a law enforcement or firefighter operation.
5.Is in a
careless or reckless manner that endangers the life or property of another
person.
6.Causes
the intentional killing of a bird or animal while in flight.
B.A person
may not operate a model aircraft within a horizontal distance of five hundred
feet or a vertical distance of two hundred fifty feet measured from the
outermost fence, physical boundary or wall of a critical facility without the
written consent of the entity that lawfully owns, operates, possesses or
controls the critical facility.
C.This
section does not apply to a person who is authorized to operate a civil
unmanned aircraft pursuant to An exemption under section 333 of the faa
Modernization and reform act of 2012 (p.l. 11295) or a certificate of
waiver, a certificate of authorization or an airworthiness certificate under 49
United States code section 44704 or another Federal Aviation Administration
grant of authority for specific flight operations or other operations that are
conducted pursuant to the authority granted by the Federal Aviation
Administration.
D.Except as
authorized by law, a political subdivision of this state may not enact or adopt
any ordinance, policy or rule that relates to the ownership or operation of an
unmanned aircraft, an unmanned aircraft system, a civil unmanned aircraft or a
public unmanned aircraft or otherwise engage in the regulation of the ownership
or operation of an unmanned aircraft, an unmanned aircraft system, a civil
unmanned aircraft or a public unmanned aircraft if the ordinance, policy or
rule is more prohibitive than or has a penalty that is greater than any state
law penalty, whether enacted or adopted before or after the effective date of
this section.
E.For the
purposes of this section:
1."Civil
unmanned aircraft" means an unmanned aircraft or unmanned aircraft system
that is operated by a person for any purpose other than strictly hobby or
recreational purposes, including commercial purposes, or in furtherance of or
incidental to any business or media service or agency.
2."Critical
facility" means a facility that is owned or leased for any of the
following purposes:
(a)A petroleum refinery.
(b)A Petroleum or chemical
production, transportation, storage or processing facility.
(c)A Chemical manufacturing
facility.
(d)A Water or wastewater treatment
facility and water distribution or conveyance system.
(e)A Power generating station plant
or substation.
(f)A federal, state, county or
municipal court.
(g)A public safety or emergency
operation facility.
(h)A Federal, state, county or
municipal jail or prison or other facility in which persons are incarcerated.
(i)A Federal or state military
installation or facility.
(j)A hospital.
(k)A Properly marked federal,
state, county or municipal owned building.
3."Model
aircraft" means an unmanned aircraft or unmanned aircraft system that is
operated by a person strictly for hobby or recreational purposes.
4."Public
unmanned aircraft" means an unmanned aircraft or unmanned aircraft system
that is operated by a public agency for a governmentrelated purpose.
5."Unmanned
aircraft" means an aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a
drone, that is operated without the possibility of direct human intervention
from within or on the aircraft.
6."Unmanned
aircraft system" means an unmanned aircraft and associated elements,
including any communication links and components that control the unmanned
aircraft.
Sec.3.Arizona department of transportation; monitoring of
federal aviation administration regulations; annual report; delayed repeal
A.Beginning on the effective date of this act and
for three years thereafter, the Arizona department of transportation's
aeronautics division shall monitor the federal aviation administration's
regulation of model aircraft, civil unmanned aircraft and public unmanned
aircraft as those terms are defined in section 133729, Arizona Revised
Statutes, as added by this act. The division shall consult with
representatives of model aircraft, civil unmanned aircraft and public unmanned
aircraft, law enforcement and political subdivisions in this state on whether
amendments to section 133729, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this
act, are necessary due to changes in federal regulations made by the federal
aviation administration.
B.The Arizona department of transportation's
aeronautics division shall submit an annual report in each year that monitoring
is required by subsection A of this section to the president of the senate and
the speaker of the house of representatives that makes recommendations for
amendments to section 133729, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this
act.
C.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2019.

