







REFERENCE TITLE: national defense laws; prohibited
  actions







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1437









Introduced by
Senator
  Burges





AN ACT

amending title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 53; relating to national
defense laws.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 53, to read:
CHAPTER 53
PROHIBITED ACTIONS UNDER NATIONAL DEFENSE LAWS
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE41-5301.National defense laws; unlawful acts; report; violation;
definitions
A.Notwithstanding
any treaty, federal, state or local law or authority enacted or claimed to be
an authorization for use of military force, including sections 1021 and 1022 of
the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 (P.L. 112-81; 125
Stat. 1298), any national defense authorization act or any similar law or
authority enacted or claimed by Congress or the President of the United States,
it is unconstitutional and unlawful for any person to:
1.Arrest or
capture any person in this state or any resident of this state within the
United States with the intent of detention under the law of war.
2.Actually
subject a person in this state to disposition under the law of war.
3.Execute
any person in this state or any resident of this state within the United States
without judicial sentencing after trial and conviction in a court ordained and
established under article III of the United States Constitution or under the
Constitution of Arizona.
B.Subsection
A of this section does not apply to cases arising in the land or naval forces,
or in the militia, when in actual service during a time of war or public
danger.
C.The
director of the department of public safety or the sheriff of a county shall
report to the governor and the legislature any attempt by an agency or agent of
the federal government to secure the implementation
of any treaty, federal, state or local law or authority enacted or claimed to
be an authorization for use of military force, including sections 1021 and 1022
of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 (P.L. 112-81;
125 Stat. 1298), any national defense authorization act or any similar law or
authority enacted or claimed by Congress or the President of the United States
through the operations of that or any other state department.
D.Any
person who violates this section is subject to prosecution pursuant to title 13
or any other applicable law.
E.For the
purposes of this section, "arrest", "capture",
"detention under the law of war", "disposition under the law of
war" and "law of war" have the same sense and meanings
prescribed in section 1021 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal
year 2012. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Findings
A.The legislature
finds that this state is not a battlefield subject to the laws of war, and that
neither Congress nor the President of the United States can constitutionally
authorize the detention or disposition of any person in this state or a
resident of this state within the United States under the law of war who is not
serving in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service
during a time of war or public danger.
B.The legislature further finds that the actions
described in section 41-5301, Arizona Revised Statutes, as added by this act,
violate the following rights enshrined in the Constitution of the United
States:
1.Article I,
section 9, clause 2 relating to the right to seek a writ of habeas corpus.
2.The First
Amendment right to petition the government for a redress of grievances.
3.The Fourth
Amendment right to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures.
4.The Fifth
Amendment right to be free from charge for an infamous or capital crime until
presentment or indictment by a grand jury.
5.The Fifth
Amendment right to be free from deprivation of life, liberty or property
without due process of law.
6.The Sixth
Amendment right in criminal prosecutions to enjoy a speedy trial by an
impartial jury in the state and district where the crime was allegedly
committed.
7.The Sixth
Amendment right to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation.
8.The Sixth
Amendment right to confront witnesses.
9.The Sixth
Amendment right to counsel.
10.The Eighth
Amendment right to be free from excessive bail and fines, and cruel and unusual
punishment.
11.The
Fourteenth Amendment right to be free from deprivation of life, liberty or
property without due process of law.
Sec.3.Short title
This act may be cited as the "Liberty Preservation
Act".

