







REFERENCE TITLE: abortion; religious employers;
  contraception; repeal







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1407









Introduced by
Senators
  Hobbs, Cajero Bedford, Dalessandro, Farley, Sherwood: Contreras, Quezada





AN ACT

Repealing section
133603.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 20121, 20826,
201057.08, 201402, 201404 and 202329, Arizona
Revised Statutes; amending title 32, chapter 18, article 3, Arizona Revised
Statutes, by adding section 321979; Amending title 32, chapter 32,
article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section 323221; Amending
section 35196.02, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 35196.05,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 36132, 36404, 36449.01,
36449.02, 36449.03, 362151, 362152 and 362153,
Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing sections 362156, 362157, 362158
and 362159, Arizona Revised Statutes; amending sections 362161
and 362163, Arizona Revised Statutes; repealing section 363604,
Arizona Revised Statutes; amending section 431088, Arizona Revised
Statutes; repealing Laws 2011, chapter 9, sections 3, 4, 5 and 6, Laws 2011,
chapter 10, sections 7, 8 and 9, Laws 2011, chapter 55, section 3, Laws 2012,
chapter 250, sections 9, 10, 11 and 12, Laws 2012, chapter 288, sections 2 and
3, Laws 2012, chapter 337, section 6 and Laws 2014, chapter 33, section 5;
relating to abortion.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Repeal
Section 13-3603.02,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.2.Section 20-121, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-121.Health care; abortion coverage
A.Consistent
with the provisions of the patient protection and affordable care act (P.L. 111148),
any qualified health insurance policy, contract or plan offered through any health care exchange operating in this
state shall not may provide coverage for abortions.
B.Subsection
A of this section does not apply to coverage for any abortion:
1.That is
necessary to save the life of the woman having the abortion.
2.That is
necessary to avert substantial and irreversible impairment of a major bodily
function of the woman having the abortion.
3.When the
pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section
20-826, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-826.Subscription contracts; definitions
A.A contract between a
corporation and its subscribers shall not be issued unless the form of such
contract is approved in writing by the director.
B.Each contract shall
plainly state the services to which the subscriber is entitled and those to
which the subscriber is not entitled under the plan, and shall constitute a
direct obligation of the providers of services with which the corporation has
contracted for hospital, medical, dental or optometric services.
C.Each contract, except
for dental services or optometric services, shall be so written that the
corporation shall pay benefits for each of the following:
1.Performance of any
surgical service that is covered by the terms of such contract, regardless of
the place of service.
2.Any home health
services that are performed by a licensed home health agency and that a
physician has prescribed in lieu of hospital services, as defined by the
director, providing the hospital services would have been covered.
3.Any diagnostic
service that a physician has performed outside a hospital in lieu of inpatient
service, providing the inpatient service would have been covered.
4.Any service performed
in a hospital's outpatient department or in a freestanding surgical facility,
if such service would have been covered if performed as an inpatient service.
D.Each contract for
dental or optometric services shall be so written that the corporation shall
pay benefits for contracted dental or optometric services provided by dentists
or optometrists.
E.Any contract, except
accidental death and dismemberment, applied for that provides family coverage,
as to such coverage of family members, shall also provide that the benefits
applicable for children shall be payable with respect to a newly born child of
the insured from the instant of such child's birth, to a child adopted by the
insured, regardless of the age at which the child was adopted, and to a child
who has been placed for adoption with the insured and for whom the application
and approval procedures for adoption pursuant to section 8105 or 8108
have been completed to the same extent that such coverage applies to other
members of the family.The coverage for newly born or adopted children
or children placed for adoption shall include coverage of injury or sickness,
including necessary care and treatment of medically diagnosed congenital
defects and birth abnormalities. If payment of a specific premium is required
to provide coverage for a child, the contract may require that notification of
birth, adoption or adoption placement of the child and payment of the required
premium must be furnished to the insurer within thirtyone days after the
date of birth, adoption or adoption placement in order to have the coverage
continue beyond the thirtyone day period.
F.Each contract that is
delivered or issued for delivery in this state after December 25, 1977 and that
provides that coverage of a dependent child shall terminate on attainment of the
limiting age for dependent children specified in the contract shall also
provide in substance that attainment of such limiting age shall not operate to
terminate the coverage of such child while the child is and continues to be
both incapable of selfsustaining employment by reason of intellectual
disability or physical disability and chiefly dependent on the subscriber for
support and maintenance. Proof of such incapacity and dependency shall be
furnished to the corporation by the subscriber within thirtyone days of
the child's attainment of the limiting age and subsequently as may be required
by the corporation, but not more frequently than annually after the twoyear
period following the child's attainment of the limiting age.
G.No corporation may cancel
or refuse to renew any subscriber's contract without giving notice of such
cancellation or nonrenewal to the subscriber under such contract.A
notice by the corporation to the subscriber of cancellation or nonrenewal of a
subscription contract shall be mailed to the named subscriber at least fortyfive
days before the effective date of such cancellation or
nonrenewal.The notice shall include or be accompanied by a
statement in writing of the reasons for such action by the corporation.
Failure of the corporation to comply with this subsection shall invalidate any
cancellation or nonrenewal except a cancellation or nonrenewal for nonpayment
of premium.
H.A contract that
provides coverage for surgical services for a mastectomy shall also provide coverage
incidental to the patient's covered mastectomy for surgical services for
reconstruction of the breast on which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and
reconstruction of the other breast to produce a symmetrical appearance,
prostheses, treatment of physical complications for all stages of the
mastectomy, including lymphedemas, and at least two external postoperative
prostheses subject to all of the terms and conditions of the policy.
I.A contract that
provides coverage for surgical services for a mastectomy shall also provide
coverage for mammography screening performed on dedicated equipment for
diagnostic purposes on referral by a patient's physician, subject to all of the
terms and conditions of the policy and according to the following guidelines:
1.A baseline mammogram
for a woman from age thirtyfive to thirtynine.
2.A mammogram for a
woman from age forty to fortynine every two years or more frequently
based on the recommendation of the woman's physician.
3.A mammogram every
year for a woman fifty years of age and over.
J.Any contract that is
issued to the insured and that provides coverage for maternity benefits shall
also provide that the maternity benefits apply to the costs of the birth of any
child legally adopted by the insured if all of the following are true:
1.The child is adopted
within one year of birth.
2.The insured is
legally obligated to pay the costs of birth.
3.All preexisting
conditions and other limitations have been met by the insured.
4.The insured has notified
the insurer of the insured's acceptability to adopt children pursuant to
section 8105, within sixty days after such approval or within sixty days
after a change in insurance policies, plans or companies.
K.The coverage
prescribed by subsection J of this section is excess to any other coverage the
natural mother may have for maternity benefits except coverage made available
to persons pursuant to title 36, chapter 29 but not including coverage made
available to persons defined as eligible under section 362901, paragraph
6, subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e). If such other coverage exists, the
agency, attorney or individual arranging the adoption shall make arrangements
for the insurance to pay those costs that may be covered under that policy and
shall advise the adopting parent in writing of the existence and extent of the
coverage without disclosing any confidential information such as the identity
of the natural parent. The insured adopting parents shall notify their insurer
of the existence and extent of the other coverage.
L.The director may
disapprove any contract if the benefits provided in the form of such contract
are unreasonable in relation to the premium charged.
M.The director shall
adopt emergency rules applicable to persons who are leaving active service in
the armed forces of the United States and returning to civilian status
including:
1.Conditions of
eligibility.
2.Coverage of
dependents.
3.Preexisting
conditions.
4.Termination of
insurance.
5.Probationary periods.
6.Limitations.
7.Exceptions.
8.Reductions.
9.Elimination periods.
10.Requirements for
replacement.
11.Any other
condition of subscription contracts.
N.Any contract that
provides maternity benefits shall not restrict benefits for any hospital length
of stay in connection with childbirth for the mother or the newborn child to
less than fortyeight hours following a normal vaginal delivery or ninetysix
hours following a cesarean section. The contract shall not require the
provider to obtain authorization from the corporation for prescribing the
minimum length of stay required by this subsection.The contract may
provide that an attending provider in consultation with the mother may
discharge the mother or the newborn child before the expiration of the minimum
length of stay required by this subsection. The corporation shall not:
1.Deny the mother or
the newborn child eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll or to renew
coverage under the terms of the contract solely for the purpose of avoiding the
requirements of this subsection.
2.Provide monetary
payments or rebates to mothers to encourage those mothers to accept less than
the minimum protections available pursuant to this subsection.
3.Penalize or otherwise
reduce or limit the reimbursement of an attending provider because that
provider provided care to any insured under the contract in accordance with
this subsection.
4.Provide monetary or
other incentives to an attending provider to induce that provider to provide
care to an insured under the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with
this subsection.
5.Except as described
in subsection O of this section, restrict benefits for any portion of a period
within the minimum length of stay in a manner that is less favorable than the benefits
provided for any preceding portion of that stay.
O.Nothing in subsection
N of this section:
1.Requires a mother to
give birth in a hospital or to stay in the hospital for a fixed period of time
following the birth of the child.
2.Prevents a corporation
from imposing deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in relation to
benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a
mother or a newborn child under the contract, except that any coinsurance or
other cost sharing for any portion of a period within a hospital length of stay
required pursuant to subsection N of this section shall not be greater than the
coinsurance or cost sharing for any preceding portion of that stay.
3.Prevents a
corporation from negotiating the level and type of reimbursement with a
provider for care provided in accordance with subsection N of this section.
P.Any contract that
provides coverage for diabetes shall also provide coverage for equipment and
supplies that are medically necessary and that are prescribed by a health care
provider, including:
1.Blood glucose
monitors.
2.Blood glucose
monitors for the legally blind.
3.Test strips for
glucose monitors and visual reading and urine testing strips.
4.Insulin preparations
and glucagon.
5.Insulin cartridges.
6.Drawing up devices
and monitors for the visually impaired.
7.Injection aids.
8.Insulin cartridges
for the legally blind.
9.Syringes and lancets,
including automatic lancing devices.
10.Prescribed oral
agents for controlling blood sugar that are included on the plan formulary.
11.To the extent
coverage is required under medicare, podiatric appliances for prevention of
complications associated with diabetes.
12.Any other device,
medication, equipment or supply for which coverage is required under medicare
from and after January 1, 1999.The coverage required in this
paragraph is effective six months after the coverage is required under
medicare.
Q.Nothing in subsection
P of this section prohibits a medical service corporation, a hospital service
corporation or a hospital, medical, dental and optometric service corporation
from imposing deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in relation to
benefits for equipment or supplies for the treatment of diabetes.
R.Any hospital or
medical service contract that provides coverage for prescription drugs shall
not limit or exclude coverage for any prescription drug prescribed for the
treatment of cancer on the basis that the prescription drug has not been
approved by the United States food and drug administration for the treatment of
the specific type of cancer for which the prescription drug has been
prescribed, if the prescription drug has been recognized as safe and effective
for treatment of that specific type of cancer in one or more of the standard
medical reference compendia prescribed in subsection S of this section or
medical literature that meets the criteria prescribed in subsection S of this
section. The coverage required under this subsection includes covered
medically necessary services associated with the administration of the
prescription drug. This subsection does not:
1.Require coverage of
any prescription drug used in the treatment of a type of cancer if the United
States food and drug administration has determined that the prescription drug
is contraindicated for that type of cancer.
2.Require coverage for
any experimental prescription drug that is not approved for any indication by
the United States food and drug administration.
3.Alter any law with
regard to provisions that limit the coverage of prescription drugs that have
not been approved by the United States food and drug administration.
4.Notwithstanding
section 20841.05, require reimbursement or coverage for any prescription
drug that is not included in the drug formulary or list of covered prescription
drugs specified in the contract.
5.Notwithstanding
section 20841.05, prohibit a contract from limiting or excluding
coverage of a prescription drug, if the decision to limit or exclude coverage
of the prescription drug is not based primarily on the coverage of prescription
drugs required by this section.
6.Prohibit the use of
deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost sharing in relation to drug
benefits and related medical benefits offered.
S.For the purposes of
subsection R of this section:
1.The acceptable
standard medical reference compendia are the following:
(a)The American
hospital formulary service drug information, a publication of the American
society of health system pharmacists.
(b)The national
comprehensive cancer network drugs and biologics compendium.
(c)Thomson Micromedex
compendium DrugDex.
(d)Elsevier gold
standard's clinical pharmacology compendium.
(e)Other authoritative
compendia as identified by the secretary of the United States department of
health and human services.
2.Medical literature
may be accepted if all of the following apply:
(a)At least two
articles from major peer reviewed professional medical journals have
recognized, based on scientific or medical criteria, the drug's safety and
effectiveness for treatment of the indication for which the drug has been
prescribed.
(b)No article from a
major peer reviewed professional medical journal has concluded, based on
scientific or medical criteria, that the drug is unsafe or ineffective or that
the drug's safety and effectiveness cannot be determined for the treatment of
the indication for which the drug has been prescribed.
(c)The literature meets
the uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals
established by the international committee of medical journal editors or is
published in a journal specified by the United States department of health and
human services as acceptable peer reviewed medical literature pursuant to
section 186(t)(2)(B) of the social security act (42 United States Code section
1395x(t)(2)(B)).
T.A corporation shall
not issue or deliver any advertising matter or sales material to any person in
this state until the corporation files the advertising matter or sales material
with the director. This subsection does not require a corporation to have the
prior approval of the director to issue or deliver the advertising matter or
sales material.If the director finds that the advertising matter or
sales material, in whole or in part, is false, deceptive or misleading, the
director may issue an order disapproving the advertising matter or sales
material, directing the corporation to cease and desist from issuing,
circulating, displaying or using the advertising matter or sales material
within a period of time specified by the director but not less than ten days
and imposing any penalties prescribed in this title. At least five days before
issuing an order pursuant to this subsection, the director shall provide the
corporation with a written notice of the basis of the order to provide the
corporation with an opportunity to cure the alleged deficiency in the
advertising matter or sales material within a single five day period for the particular advertising
matter or sales material at issue. The corporation may appeal the director's
order pursuant to title 41, chapter6, article 10.Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, a corporation may obtain a stay of the
effectiveness of the order as prescribed in section 20162. If the
director certifies in the order and provides a detailed explanation of the
reasons in support of the certification that continued use of the advertising
matter or sales material poses a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the
public, the order may be entered immediately without opportunity for cure and
the effectiveness of the order is not stayed pending the hearing on the notice
of appeal but the hearing shall be promptly instituted and determined.
U.Any contract that is
offered by a hospital service corporation or medical service corporation and
that contains a prescription drug benefit shall provide coverage of medical
foods to treat inherited metabolic disorders as provided by this section.
V.The metabolic disorders
triggering medical foods coverage under this section shall:
1.Be part of the
newborn screening program prescribed in section 36694.
2.Involve amino acid,
carbohydrate or fat metabolism.
3.Have medically
standard methods of diagnosis, treatment and monitoring, including
quantification of metabolites in blood, urine or spinal fluid or enzyme or DNA
confirmation in tissues.
4.Require specially
processed or treated medical foods that are generally available only under the
supervision and direction of a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to
title 32, chapter 15, that must be consumed throughout life and without which
the person may suffer serious mental or physical impairment.
W.Medical foods
eligible for coverage under this section shall be prescribed or ordered under
the supervision of a physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17
as medically necessary for the therapeutic treatment of an inherited metabolic
disease.
X.A hospital service
corporation or medical service corporation shall cover at least fifty per cent percent of the cost of medical foods prescribed to treat
inherited metabolic disorders and covered pursuant to this section. A hospital
service corporation or medical service corporation may limit the maximum annual
benefit for medical foods under this section to five thousand dollars, which
applies to the cost of all prescribed modified low protein foods and metabolic
formula.
Y.Any contract between
a corporation and its subscribers is subject to the following:
1.If the contract
provides coverage for prescription drugs, the contract shall provide coverage
for any prescribed drug or device that is approved by the United States food
and drug administration for use as a contraceptive.A corporation
may use a drug formulary, multitiered drug formulary or list but that formulary
or list shall include oral, implant and injectable contraceptive drugs,
intrauterine devices and prescription barrier methods if the corporation does
not impose deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment
measures for contraceptive drugs that are greater than the deductibles,
coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment measures for other drugs on
the same level of the formulary or list.
2.If the contract
provides coverage for outpatient health care services, the contract shall
provide coverage for outpatient contraceptive services.For the
purposes of this paragraph, "outpatient contraceptive services" means
consultations, examinations, procedures and medical services provided on an
outpatient basis and related to the use of approved United States food and drug
administration prescription contraceptive methods to prevent unintended
pregnancies.
3.This subsection does
not apply to contracts issued to individuals on a nongroup basis.
Z.Notwithstanding
subsection Y of this section, a religiously affiliated employer may require
that the corporation provide a contract without coverage for specific items or
services required under subsection Y of this section because providing or
paying for coverage of the specific items or services is contrary to the
religious beliefs of the religiously affiliated employer offering the plan. If
a religiously affiliated employer objects to providing coverage for specific
items or services required under subsection Y of this section, a written
affidavit shall be filed with the corporation stating the
objection.On receipt of the affidavit, the corporation shall issue
to the religiously affiliated employer a contract that excludes coverage for
specific items or services required under subsection Y of this section. The
corporation shall retain the affidavit for the duration of the contract and any
renewals of the contract. This subsection shall not exclude coverage for
prescription contraceptive methods ordered by a health care provider with
prescriptive authority for medical indications other than for contraceptive,
abortifacient, abortion or sterilization purposes.A religiously
affiliated employer offering the plan may state religious beliefs in its
affidavit and may require the subscriber to first pay for the prescription and
then submit a claim to the hospital service corporation, medical service corporation
or hospital, medical, dental and optometric service corporation along with
evidence that the prescription is not for a purpose covered by the
objection.A hospital service corporation, medical service
corporation or hospital, medical, dental and optometric service corporation may
charge an administrative fee for handling these claims.
AA.Subsection
Z of this section does not authorize a religiously affiliated employer to
obtain an employee's protected health information or to violate the health insurance
portability and accountability act of 1996 (P.L. 104191; 110 Stat. 1936)
or any federal regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
BB.Subsection
Z of this section shall not be construed to restrict or limit any protections
against employment discrimination that are prescribed in federal or state law.
Z.Notwithstanding subsection Y of this section, a
religious employer whose religious tenets prohibit the use of prescribed
contraceptive methods may require that the corporation provide a contract
without coverage for all approved United States food and drug administration
prescription contraceptive methods. A religious employer shall submit a
written affidavit to the corporation stating that it is a religious employer.
On receipt of the affidavit, the corporation shall issue to the religious
employer a contract that excludes coverage of prescription contraceptive
methods. The corporation shall retain the affidavit for the duration of the
contract and any renewals of the contract.Before enrollment in the
plan, each religious employer that invokes this exemption shall provide
prospective subscribers written notice that the religious employer refuses to
cover all approved United States food and drug administration prescription
contraceptive methods for religious reasons. This subsection does not exclude
coverage for prescription contraceptive methods ordered by a health care
provider with prescriptive authority for medical indications other than to
prevent an unintended pregnancy. the corporation may require the subscriber to
first pay for the prescription and then submit a claim to the corporation along
with evidence that the prescription is for a noncontraceptive purpose. the
corporation may charge an administrative fee for handling these claims. A
religious employer may not discriminate against an employee who independently
chooses to obtain insurance coverage or prescriptions for contraceptives from
another source.
CC.AA.For
the purposes of:
1.This
section:
(a)"Inherited
metabolic disorder" means a disease caused by an inherited abnormality of
body chemistry and includes a disease tested under the newborn screening
program prescribed in section 36694.
(b)"Medical
foods" means modified low protein foods and metabolic formula.
(c)"Metabolic
formula" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated to be
consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
(ii)Processed or
formulated to be deficient in one or more of the nutrients present in typical
foodstuffs.
(iii)Administered for
the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to
metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who
has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical evaluation.
(iv)Essential to a
person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
(d)"Modified low
protein foods" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated to be
consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
(ii)Processed or
formulated to contain less than one gram of protein per unit of serving, but
does not include a natural food that is naturally low in protein.
(iii)Administered for
the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to
metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who
has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical evaluation.
(iv)Essential to a
person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
2.Subsection E of this
section, "child", for purposes of initial coverage of an adopted
child or a child placed for adoption but not for purposes of termination of
coverage of such child, means a person under eighteen years of age.
3.Subsections Subsection Z and AA of
this section, "religiously affiliated
employer" means either: "religious employer" means an entity to which all of the
following apply:
(a)An
entity for which all of the following apply:
(i)(a)The entity
primarily employs persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(ii)(b)The entity
primarily serves persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(iii)(c)The entity is a
nonprofit organization as described in section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or (iii) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
(b)An
entity whose articles of incorporation clearly state that it is a religiously
motivated organization and whose religious beliefs are central to the
organization's operating principles. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
20-1057.08, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1057.08.Prescription contraceptive drugs and devices; definition
A.If a health care
services organization issues evidence of coverage that provides coverage for:
1.Prescription drugs,
the evidence of coverage shall provide coverage for any prescribed drug or
device that is approved by the United States food and drug administration for
use as a contraceptive. A health care services organization may use a drug
formulary, multitiered drug formulary or list but that formulary or list shall
include oral, implant and injectable contraceptive drugs, intrauterine devices
and prescription barrier methods if the health care services organization does
not impose deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment
measures for contraceptive drugs that are greater than the deductibles,
coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment measures for other drugs on
the same level of the formulary or list.
2.Outpatient health
care services, the evidence of coverage shall provide coverage for outpatient
contraceptive services. For the purposes of this paragraph, "outpatient
contraceptive services" means consultations, examinations, procedures and
medical services provided on an outpatient basis and related to the use of approved United States food
and drug administration prescription
contraceptive methods to prevent unintended pregnancies.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a religiously
affiliated employer may require that the health care services organization
provide an evidence of coverage without coverage for specific items or services
required under subsection A of this section because providing or paying for
coverage of the specific items or services is contrary to the religious beliefs
of the religiously affiliated employer offering the plan. If a religiously
affiliated employer objects to providing coverage for specific items or
services required under subsection A of this section, a written affidavit shall
be filed with the health care services organization stating the objection. On
receipt of the affidavit, the health care services organization shall issue to
the religiously affiliated employer an evidence of coverage that excludes
coverage for specific items or services required under subsection A of this
section. A religious
employer whose religious tenets prohibit the use of prescribed contraceptive
methods may require that the health care services organization provide coverage
that excludes all approved United States food and drug administration
prescription contraceptive methods.A religious employer shall
submit a written affidavit to the health care services organization stating
that it is a religious employer.On receipt of the affidavit, the
health care services organization shall provide coverage to the religious
employer that excludes prescription contraceptive methods. The health
care services organization shall retain the affidavit for the duration of the
coverage and any renewals of the coverage.
C.Before enrollment in the health care plan, each
religious employer that invokes the exemption prescribed in subsection B of
this section shall provide prospective enrollees written notice that the
religious employer refuses to cover all approved United States food and drug
administration prescription contraceptive methods for religious reasons.
C.D.Subsection
B of this section does not exclude coverage for prescription contraceptive
methods ordered by a health care provider with prescriptive authority for
medical indications other than for contraceptive,
abortifacient, abortion or sterilization purposes.A religiously
affiliated employer offering the plan may state religious beliefs in its
affidavit and to
prevent an unintended pregnancy. A health care services organization
may require the enrollee to first pay for the prescription and then submit a
claim to the health care services organization along with evidence that the
prescription is not for a purpose covered by the
objection for a
noncontraceptive purpose.A health care services organization
may charge an administrative fee for handling claims under this subsection.
D.Subsections
B and C of this section do not authorize a religiously affiliated employer to
obtain an employee's protected health information or to violate the health
insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (P.L. 104191; 110
Stat. 1936) or any federal regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
E.Subsections
B and C of this section shall not be construed to restrict or limit any
protections against employment discrimination that are prescribed in federal or
state law.
E.A religious employer may not discriminate against an
employee who independently chooses to obtain insurance coverage or
prescriptions for contraceptives from another source.
F.This section does not
apply to evidences of coverage issued to individuals on a nongroup basis.
G.For
the purposes of this section, "religiously affiliated employer" means
either:
1.An
entity for which all of the following apply:
G.For the purposes of this section, "religious employer"
means an entity to which all of the following apply:
(a)1.The
entity primarily employs persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(b)2.The
entity serves primarily persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(c)3.The
entity is a nonprofit organization as described in section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or
(iii) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
2.An
entity whose articles of incorporation clearly state that it is a religiously
motivated organization and whose religious beliefs are central to the
organization's operating principles. END_STATUTE
Sec.5.Section
20-1402, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1402.Provisions of group disability policies; definitions
A.Each
group disability policy shall contain in substance the following provisions:
1.A
provision that, in the absence of fraud, all statements made by the
policyholder or by any insured person shall be deemed representations and not
warranties, and that no statement made for the purpose of effecting insurance
shall avoid such insurance or reduce benefits unless contained in a written
instrument signed by the policyholder or the insured person, a copy of which
has been furnished to the policyholder or to the person or beneficiary.
2.A
provision that the insurer will furnish to the policyholder, for delivery to
each employee or member of the insured group, an individual certificate setting
forth in summary form a statement of the essential features of the insurance
coverage of the employee or member and to whom benefits are payable. If
dependents or family members are included in the coverage additional
certificates need not be issued for delivery to the dependents or family
members.Any policy, except accidental death and dismemberment,
applied for that provides family coverage, as to such coverage of family
members, shall also provide that the benefits applicable for children shall be payable
with respect to a newly born child of the insured from the instant of such
child's birth, to a child adopted by the insured, regardless of the age at
which the child was adopted, and to a child who has been placed for adoption
with the insured and for whom the application and approval procedures for
adoption pursuant to section 8105 or 8108 have been completed to
the same extent that such coverage applies to other members of the family. The
coverage for newly born or adopted children or children placed for adoption
shall include coverage of injury or sickness including the necessary care and
treatment of medically diagnosed congenital defects and birth
abnormalities.If payment of a specific premium is required to
provide coverage for a child, the policy may require that notification of
birth, adoption or adoption placement of the child and payment of the required
premium must be furnished to the insurer within thirtyone days after the
date of birth, adoption or adoption placement in order to have the coverage
continue beyond such thirtyone day period.
3.A
provision that to the group originally insured may be added from time to time
eligible new employees or members or dependents, as the case may be, in
accordance with the terms of the policy.
4.Each
contract shall be so written that the corporation shall pay benefits:
(a)For
performance of any surgical service that is covered by the terms of such
contract, regardless of the place of service.
(b)For
any home health services that are performed by a licensed home health agency
and that a physician has prescribed in lieu of hospital services, as defined by
the director, providing the hospital services would have been covered.
(c)For
any diagnostic service that a physician has performed outside a hospital in
lieu of inpatient service, providing the inpatient service would have been
covered.
(d)For
any service performed in a hospital's outpatient department or in a
freestanding surgical facility, providing such service would have been covered
if performed as an inpatient service.
5.A
group disability insurance policy that provides coverage for the surgical
expense of a mastectomy shall also provide coverage incidental to the patient's
covered mastectomy for the expense of reconstructive surgery of the breast on
which the mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction of the other
breast to produce a symmetrical appearance, prostheses, treatment of physical
complications for all stages of the mastectomy, including lymphedemas, and at least
two external postoperative prostheses subject to all of the terms and
conditions of the policy.
6.A
contract, except a supplemental contract covering a specified disease or other
limited benefits, that provides coverage for surgical services for a mastectomy
shall also provide coverage for mammography screening performed on dedicated
equipment for diagnostic purposes on referral by a patient's physician, subject
to all of the terms and conditions of the policy and according to the following
guidelines:
(a)A
baseline mammogram for a woman from age thirtyfive to thirtynine.
(b)A
mammogram for a woman from age forty to fortynine every two years or
more frequently based on the recommendation of the woman's physician.
(c)A
mammogram every year for a woman fifty years of age and over.
7.Any
contract that is issued to the insured and that provides coverage for maternity
benefits shall also provide that the maternity benefits apply to the costs of
the birth of any child legally adopted by the insured if all the following are
true:
(a)The child is adopted within one year of birth.
(b)The insured is legally obligated to pay the costs of
birth.
(c)All
preexisting conditions and other limitations have been met by the insured.
(d)The
insured has notified the insurer of the insured's acceptability to adopt
children pursuant to section 8105, within sixty days after such approval
or within sixty days after a change in insurance policies, plans or companies.
8.The
coverage prescribed by paragraph 7 of this subsection is excess to any other
coverage the natural mother may have for maternity benefits except coverage
made available to persons pursuant to title 36, chapter 29, but not including
coverage made available to persons defined as eligible under section 362901,
paragraph 6, subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e). If such other coverage exists
the agency, attorney or individual arranging the adoption shall make
arrangements for the insurance to pay those costs that may be covered under
that policy and shall advise the adopting parent in writing of the existence
and extent of the coverage without disclosing any confidential information such
as the identity of the natural parent. The insured adopting parents shall
notify their insurer of the existence and extent of the other coverage.
B.Any
policy that provides maternity benefits shall not restrict benefits for any
hospital length of stay in connection with childbirth for the mother or the
newborn child to less than fortyeight hours following a normal vaginal
delivery or ninetysix hours following a cesarean section. The policy
shall not require the provider to obtain authorization from the insurer for
prescribing the minimum length of stay required by this
subsection.The policy may provide that an attending provider in
consultation with the mother may discharge the mother or the newborn child
before the expiration of the minimum length of stay required by this
subsection. The insurer shall not:
1.Deny
the mother or the newborn child eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll
or to renew coverage under the terms of the policy solely for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of this subsection.
2.Provide
monetary payments or rebates to mothers to encourage those mothers to accept
less than the minimum protections available pursuant to this subsection.
3.Penalize
or otherwise reduce or limit the reimbursement of an attending provider because
that provider provided care to any insured under the policy in accordance with
this subsection.
4.Provide
monetary or other incentives to an attending provider to induce that provider
to provide care to an insured under the policy in a manner that is inconsistent
with this subsection.
5.Except
as described in subsection C of this section, restrict benefits for any portion
of a period within the minimum length of stay in a manner that is less
favorable than the benefits provided for any preceding portion of that stay.
C.Nothing
in subsection B of this section:
1.Requires
a mother to give birth in a hospital or to stay in the hospital for a fixed
period of time following the birth of the child.
2.Prevents
an insurer from imposing deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in
relation to benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth
for a mother or a newborn child under the policy, except that any coinsurance
or other cost sharing for any portion of a period within a hospital length of
stay required pursuant to subsection B of this section shall not be greater
than the coinsurance or cost sharing for any preceding portion of that stay.
3.Prevents
an insurer from negotiating the level and type of reimbursement with a provider
for care provided in accordance with subsectionB of this section.
D.Any
contract that provides coverage for diabetes shall also provide coverage for
equipment and supplies that are medically necessary and that are prescribed by
a health care provider including:
1.Blood
glucose monitors.
2.Blood
glucose monitors for the legally blind.
3.Test
strips for glucose monitors and visual reading and urine testing strips.
4.Insulin
preparations and glucagon.
5.Insulin
cartridges.
6.Drawing
up devices and monitors for the visually impaired.
7.Injection
aids.
8.Insulin
cartridges for the legally blind.
9.Syringes
and lancets including automatic lancing devices.
10.Prescribed
oral agents for controlling blood sugar that are included on the plan
formulary.
11.To
the extent coverage is required under medicare, podiatric appliances for
prevention of complications associated with diabetes.
12.Any
other device, medication, equipment or supply for which coverage is required
under medicare from and after January 1, 1999.The coverage required
in this paragraph is effective six months after the coverage is required under
medicare.
E.Nothing
in subsection D of this section prohibits a group disability insurer from
imposing deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in relation to benefits
for equipment or supplies for the treatment of diabetes.
F.Any
contract that provides coverage for prescription drugs shall not limit or
exclude coverage for any prescription drug prescribed for the treatment of
cancer on the basis that the prescription drug has not been approved by the
United States food and drug administration for the treatment of the specific
type of cancer for which the prescription drug has been prescribed, if the
prescription drug has been recognized as safe and effective for treatment of
that specific type of cancer in one or more of the standard medical reference
compendia prescribed in subsection G of this section or medical literature that
meets the criteria prescribed in subsection G of this section. The coverage
required under this subsection includes covered medically necessary services
associated with the administration of the prescription drug. This subsection
does not:
1.Require
coverage of any prescription drug used in the treatment of a type of cancer if
the United States food and drug administration has determined that the prescription
drug is contraindicated for that type of cancer.
2.Require
coverage for any experimental prescription drug that is not approved for any
indication by the United States food and drug administration.
3.Alter
any law with regard to provisions that limit the coverage of prescription drugs
that have not been approved by the United States food and drug administration.
4.Require
reimbursement or coverage for any prescription drug that is not included in the
drug formulary or list of covered prescription drugs specified in the contract.
5.Prohibit
a contract from limiting or excluding coverage of a prescription drug, if the
decision to limit or exclude coverage of the prescription drug is not based
primarily on the coverage of prescription drugs required by this section.
6.Prohibit
the use of deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost sharing in
relation to drug benefits and related medical benefits offered.
G.For
the purposes of subsection F of this section:
1.The
acceptable standard medical reference compendia are the following:
(a)The
American hospital formulary service drug information, a publication of the
American society of health system pharmacists.
(b)The national
comprehensive cancer network drugs and biologics compendium.
(c)Thomson Micromedex
compendium DrugDex.
(d)Elsevier gold
standard's clinical pharmacology compendium.
(e)Other
authoritative compendia as identified by the secretary of the United States
department of health and human services.
2.Medical
literature may be accepted if all of the following apply:
(a)At
least two articles from major peer reviewed professional medical journals have
recognized, based on scientific or medical criteria, the drug's safety and
effectiveness for treatment of the indication for which the drug has been
prescribed.
(b)No
article from a major peer reviewed professional medical journal has concluded,
based on scientific or medical criteria, that the drug is unsafe or ineffective
or that the drug's safety and effectiveness cannot be determined for the
treatment of the indication for which the drug has been prescribed.
(c)The
literature meets the uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to
biomedical journals established by the international committee of medical journal
editors or is published in a journal specified by the United States department
of health and human services as acceptable peer reviewed medical literature
pursuant to section 186(t)(2)(B) of the social security act (42 United States
Code section 1395x(t)(2)(B)).
H.Any
contract that is offered by a group disability insurer and that contains a
prescription drug benefit shall provide coverage of medical foods to treat
inherited metabolic disorders as provided by this section.
I.The
metabolic disorders triggering medical foods coverage under this section shall:
1.Be
part of the newborn screening program prescribed in section 36694.
2.Involve
amino acid, carbohydrate or fat metabolism.
3.Have
medically standard methods of diagnosis, treatment and monitoring including
quantification of metabolites in blood, urine or spinal fluid or enzyme or DNA
confirmation in tissues.
4.Require
specially processed or treated medical foods that are generally available only
under the supervision and direction of a physician who is licensed pursuant to
title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or
a registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter
15, that must be consumed throughout life and without which the person may
suffer serious mental or physical impairment.
J.Medical
foods eligible for coverage under this section shall be prescribed or ordered
under the supervision of a physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13
or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 15 as medically necessary for the therapeutic treatment of an inherited
metabolic disease.
K.An
insurer shall cover at least fifty per cent
percent of the cost of
medical foods prescribed to treat inherited metabolic disorders and covered
pursuant to this section. An insurer may limit the maximum annual benefit for
medical foods under this section to five thousand dollars, which applies to the
cost of all prescribed modified low protein foods and metabolic formula.
L.Any
group disability policy that provides coverage for:
1.Prescription drugs
shall also provide coverage for any prescribed drug or device that is approved
by the United States food and drug administration for use as a contraceptive.
A group disability insurer may use a drug formulary, multitiered drug formulary
or list but that formulary or list shall include oral, implant and injectable
contraceptive drugs, intrauterine devices and prescription barrier methods if
the group disability insurer does not impose deductibles, coinsurance,
copayments or other cost containment measures for contraceptive drugs that are
greater than the deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment
measures for other drugs on the same level of the formulary or list.
2.Outpatient health
care services shall also provide coverage for outpatient contraceptive
services. For the purposes of this paragraph, "outpatient contraceptive
services" means consultations, examinations, procedures and medical
services provided on an outpatient basis and related to the use of approved
United States food and drug administration prescription contraceptive methods
to prevent unintended pregnancies.
M.Notwithstanding
subsection L of this section, a religiously
affiliated employer may require that the insurer provide a group disability
policy without coverage for specific items or services required under
subsection L of this section because providing or paying for coverage of the
specific items or services is contrary to the religious beliefs of the religiously
affiliated employer offering the plan. If a religiously affiliated employer
objects to providing coverage for specific items or services required under
subsection L of this section, a written affidavit shall be filed with the
insurer stating the objection. On receipt of the affidavit, the insurer shall
issue to the religiously affiliated employer a group disability policy that
excludes coverage for specific items or services required under subsection L of
this section. A
religious employer whose religious tenets prohibit the use of prescribed
contraceptive methods may require that the insurer provide a group disability
policy without coverage for all approved United States food and drug
administration prescription contraceptive methods.A religious employer
shall submit a written affidavit to the insurer stating that it is a religious
employer.On receipt of the affidavit, the insurer shall issue to
the religious employer a group disability policy that excludes coverage of
prescription contraceptive methods.The insurer shall retain
the affidavit for the duration of the group disability policy and any renewals
of the policy. Before a
policy is issued, each religious employer that invokes this exemption shall
provide prospective insureds written notice that the religious employer refuses
to cover all approved United States food and drug administration prescription
contraceptive methods for religious reasons.This subsection shall does not exclude coverage for prescription
contraceptive methods ordered by a health care provider with prescriptive
authority for medical indications other than for
contraceptive, abortifacient, abortion or sterilization purposes. A
religiously affiliated employer offering the policy may state religious beliefs
in its affidavit and
to prevent an unintended pregnancy.An insurer may require
the insured to first pay for the prescription and then submit a claim to the
insurer along with evidence that the prescription is not for a purpose covered by the objection for a noncontraceptive purpose.An
insurer may charge an administrative fee for handling these claims. A religious employer may not
discriminate against an employee who independently chooses to obtain insurance
coverage or prescriptions for contraceptives from another source.
N.Subsection
M of this section does not authorize a religiously affiliated employer to
obtain an employee's protected health information or to violate the health
insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (P.L. 104191; 110
Stat. 1936) or any federal regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
O.Subsection
M of this section shall not be construed to restrict or limit any protections
against employment discrimination that are prescribed in federal or state law.
P.N.For
the purposes of:
1.This
section:
(a)"Inherited
metabolic disorder" means a disease caused by an inherited abnormality of
body chemistry and includes a disease tested under the newborn screening
program prescribed in section 36694.
(b)"Medical
foods" means modified low protein foods and metabolic formula.
(c)"Metabolic
formula" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated
to be consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician
who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
(ii)Processed
or formulated to be deficient in one or more of the nutrients present in
typical foodstuffs.
(iii)Administered
for the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity
to metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or
who has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical
evaluation.
(iv)Essential
to a person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
(d)"Modified
low protein foods" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated
to be consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician
who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
(ii)Processed
or formulated to contain less than one gram of protein per unit of serving, but
does not include a natural food that is naturally low in protein.
(iii)Administered
for the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity
to metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or
who has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical
evaluation.
(iv)Essential
to a person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
2.Subsection
A of this section, the term "child", for purposes of initial coverage
of an adopted child or a child placed for adoption but not for purposes of
termination of coverage of such child, means a person under the age of eighteen
years.
3.Subsections
M and N of this section, "religiously affiliated employer" means
either:
(a)An
entity for which all of the following apply:
3.Subsection M of this section, "religious employer"
means an entity to which all of the following apply:
(i)(a)The entity
primarily employs persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(ii)(b)The entity
serves primarily persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(iii)(c)The entity is a
nonprofit organization as described in section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or (iii) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
(b)An
entity whose articles of incorporation clearly state that it is a religiously
motivated organization and whose religious beliefs are central to the
organization's operating principles. END_STATUTE
Sec.6.Section
20-1404, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-1404.Blanket disability insurance; definitions
A.Blanket disability
insurance is that form of disability insurance covering special groups of
persons as enumerated in one of the following paragraphs:
1.Under a policy or
contract issued to any common carrier or to any operator, owner or lessee of a
means of transportation, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering a
group defined as all persons who may become passengers on such common carrier
or means of transportation.
2.Under a policy or
contract issued to an employer, who shall be deemed the policyholder, covering
all employees or any group of employees defined by reference to hazards
incident to an activity or activities or operations of the policyholder.
Dependents of the employees and guests of the employer or employees may also be
included where exposed to the same hazards.
3.Under a policy or
contract issued to a college, school or other institution of learning or to the
head or principal thereof, who or which shall be deemed the policyholder,
covering students, teachers, employees or volunteers.
4.Under a policy or
contract issued in the name of any volunteer fire department or any first aid,
civil defense or other such volunteer group, or agency having jurisdiction
thereof, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering all or any group of
the members, participants or volunteers of such fire department or first aid,
civil defense or other group.
5.Under a policy or
contract issued to a creditor, who shall be deemed the policyholder, to insure
debtors of the creditor.
6.Under a policy or
contract issued to a sports team or to a camp or sponsor thereof, which team or
camp or sponsor thereof shall be deemed the policyholder, covering members,
campers, employees, officials, supervisors or volunteers.
7.Under a policy or
contract issued to an incorporated or unincorporated religious, charitable,
recreational, educational or civic organization, or branch thereof, which
organization shall be deemed the policyholder, covering any group of members,
participants or volunteers defined by reference to hazards incident to an
activity or activities or operations sponsored or supervised by or on the
premises of the policyholder.
8.Under a policy or
contract issued to a newspaper or other publisher, which shall be deemed the
policyholder, covering its carriers.
9.Under a policy or
contract issued to a restaurant, hotel, motel, resort, innkeeper or other group
with a high degree of potential customer liability, which shall be deemed the
policyholder, covering patrons or guests.
10.Under a policy or
contract issued to a health care provider or other arranger of health services,
which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering patients, donors or surrogates
provided that the coverage is not made a condition of receiving care.
11.Under a policy or
contract issued to a bank, financial vendor or other financial institution, or
to a parent holding company or to the trustee, trustees or agent designated by
one or more banks, financial vendors or other financial institutions, which
shall be deemed the policyholder, covering account holders, debtors, guarantors
or purchasers.
12.Under a policy or
contract issued to an incorporated or unincorporated association of persons
having a common interest or calling, which association shall be deemed the
policyholder, formed for purposes other than obtaining insurance, covering
members of such association.
13.Under a policy or
contract issued to a travel agency or other organization that provides travelrelated
services, which agency or organization shall be deemed the policyholder, to
cover all persons for whom travelrelated services are provided.
14.Under a policy or
contract that is issued to any other substantially similar group and that, in
the discretion of the director, may be subject to the issuance of a blanket
disability policy or contract.The director may exercise discretion
on an individual risk basis or class of risks, or both.
B.An individual
application need not be required from a person covered under a blanket
disability policy or contract, nor shall it be necessary for the insurer to
furnish each person with a certificate.
C.All benefits under
any blanket disability policy shall be payable to the person insured, or to the
insured's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, or to the insured's estate,
except that if the person insured is a minor, such benefits may be made payable
to the insured's parent or guardian or any other person actually supporting the
insured, and except that the policy may provide that all or any portion of any
indemnities provided by any such policy on account of hospital, nursing,
medical or surgical services, at the insurer's option, may be paid directly to
the hospital or person rendering such services, but the policy may not require
that the service be rendered by a particular hospital or person. Payment so
made shall discharge the insurer's obligation with respect to the amount of
insurance so paid.
D.Nothing contained in
this section shall be deemed to affect the legal liability of policyholders for
the death of or injury to any member of the group.
E.Any policy or
contract, except accidental death and dismemberment, applied for that provides
family coverage, as to such coverage of family members, shall also provide that
the benefits applicable for children shall be payable with respect to a newly
born child of the insured from the instant of such child's birth, to a child
adopted by the insured, regardless of the age at which the child was adopted,
and to a child who has been placed for adoption with the insured and for whom
the application and approval procedures for adoption pursuant to section 8105
or 8108 have been completed to the same extent that such coverage
applies to other members of the family.The coverage for newly born
or adopted children or children placed for adoption shall include coverage of
injury or sickness including necessary care and treatment of medically
diagnosed congenital defects and birth abnormalities. If payment of a specific
premium is required to provide coverage for a child, the policy or contract may
require that notification of birth, adoption or adoption placement of the child
and payment of the required premium must be furnished to the insurer within thirtyone
days after the date of birth, adoption or adoption placement in order to have
the coverage continue beyond the thirtyone day period.
F.Each policy or
contract shall be so written that the insurer shall pay benefits:
1.For performance of
any surgical service that is covered by the terms of such contract, regardless
of the place of service.
2.For any home health
services that are performed by a licensed home health agency and that a
physician has prescribed in lieu of hospital services, as defined by the
director, providing the hospital services would have been covered.
3.For any diagnostic
service that a physician has performed outside a hospital in lieu of inpatient
service, providing the inpatient service would have been covered.
4.For any service
performed in a hospital's outpatient department or in a freestanding surgical
facility, providing such service would have been covered if performed as an
inpatient service.
G.A blanket disability
insurance policy that provides coverage for the surgical expense of a
mastectomy shall also provide coverage incidental to the patient's covered
mastectomy for the expense of reconstructive surgery of the breast on which the
mastectomy was performed, surgery and reconstruction of the other breast to produce
a symmetrical appearance, prostheses, treatment of physical complications for
all stages of the mastectomy, including lymphedemas, and at least two external
postoperative prostheses subject to all of the terms and conditions of the
policy.
H.A contract that
provides coverage for surgical services for a mastectomy shall also provide
coverage for mammography screening performed on dedicated equipment for
diagnostic purposes on referral by a patient's physician, subject to all of the
terms and conditions of the policy and according to the following guidelines:
1.A baseline mammogram
for a woman from age thirtyfive to thirtynine.
2.A mammogram for a
woman from age forty to fortynine every two years or more frequently
based on the recommendation of the woman's physician.
3.A mammogram every
year for a woman fifty years of age and over.
I.Any contract that is
issued to the insured and that provides coverage for maternity benefits shall
also provide that the maternity benefits apply to the costs of the birth of any
child legally adopted by the insured if all the following are true:
1.The child is adopted
within one year of birth.
2.The insured is
legally obligated to pay the costs of birth.
3.All preexisting
conditions and other limitations have been met by the insured.
4.The insured has
notified the insurer of his acceptability to adopt children pursuant to section
8105, within sixty days after such approval or within sixty days after a
change in insurance policies, plans or companies.
J.The coverage
prescribed by subsection I of this section is excess to any other coverage the
natural mother may have for maternity benefits except coverage made available
to persons pursuant to title 36, chapter 29, but not including coverage made
available to persons defined as eligible under section 362901, paragraph
6, subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e).If such other coverage exists
the agency, attorney or individual arranging the adoption shall make
arrangements for the insurance to pay those costs that may be covered under
that policy and shall advise the adopting parent in writing of the existence
and extent of the coverage without disclosing any confidential information such
as the identity of the natural parent. The insured adopting parents shall notify
their insurer of the existence and extent of the other coverage.
K.Any contract that
provides maternity benefits shall not restrict benefits for any hospital length
of stay in connection with childbirth for the mother or the newborn child to
less than fortyeight hours following a normal vaginal delivery or ninetysix
hours following a cesarean section. The contract shall not require the
provider to obtain authorization from the insurer for prescribing the minimum
length of stay required by this subsection.The contract may provide
that an attending provider in consultation with the mother may discharge the
mother or the newborn child before the expiration of the minimum length of stay
required by this subsection. The insurer shall not:
1.Deny the mother or
the newborn child eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll or to renew
coverage under the terms of the contract solely for the purpose of avoiding the
requirements of this subsection.
2.Provide monetary
payments or rebates to mothers to encourage those mothers to accept less than
the minimum protections available pursuant to this subsection.
3.Penalize or otherwise
reduce or limit the reimbursement of an attending provider because that
provider provided care to any insured under the contract in accordance with
this subsection.
4.Provide monetary or
other incentives to an attending provider to induce that provider to provide
care to an insured under the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with
this subsection.
5.Except as described
in subsection L of this section, restrict benefits for any portion of a period
within the minimum length of stay in a manner that is less favorable than the
benefits provided for any preceding portion of that stay.
L.Nothing in subsection
K of this section:
1.Requires a mother to
give birth in a hospital or to stay in the hospital for a fixed period of time
following the birth of the child.
2.Prevents an insurer
from imposing deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in relation to
benefits for hospital lengths of stay in connection with childbirth for a
mother or a newborn child under the contract, except that any coinsurance or
other cost sharing for any portion of a period within a hospital length of stay
required pursuant to subsection K of this section shall not be greater than the
coinsurance or cost sharing for any preceding portion of that stay.
3.Prevents an insurer
from negotiating the level and type of reimbursement with a provider for care
provided in accordance with subsection K of this section.
M.Any contract that
provides coverage for diabetes shall also provide coverage for equipment and
supplies that are medically necessary and that are prescribed by a health care
provider including:
1.Blood glucose
monitors.
2.Blood glucose
monitors for the legally blind.
3.Test strips for
glucose monitors and visual reading and urine testing strips.
4.Insulin preparations
and glucagon.
5.Insulin cartridges.
6.Drawing up devices
and monitors for the visually impaired.
7.Injection aids.
8.Insulin cartridges
for the legally blind.
9.Syringes and lancets
including automatic lancing devices.
10.Prescribed oral
agents for controlling blood sugar that are included on the plan formulary.
11.To the extent
coverage is required under medicare, podiatric appliances for prevention of
complications associated with diabetes.
12.Any other device,
medication, equipment or supply for which coverage is required under medicare
from and after January 1, 1999.The coverage required in this
paragraph is effective six months after the coverage is required under
medicare.
N.Nothing in subsection
M of this section prohibits a blanket disability insurer from imposing
deductibles, coinsurance or other cost sharing in relation to benefits for equipment
or supplies for the treatment of diabetes.
O.Any contract that
provides coverage for prescription drugs shall not limit or exclude coverage
for any prescription drug prescribed for the treatment of cancer on the basis
that the prescription drug has not been approved by the United States food and
drug administration for the treatment of the specific type of cancer for which
the prescription drug has been prescribed, if the prescription drug has been
recognized as safe and effective for treatment of that specific type of cancer
in one or more of the standard medical reference compendia prescribed in
subsection P of this section or medical literature that meets the criteria
prescribed in subsection P of this section. The coverage required under this
subsection includes covered medically necessary services associated with the
administration of the prescription drug. This subsection does not:
1.Require coverage of
any prescription drug used in the treatment of a type of cancer if the United
States food and drug administration has determined that the prescription drug
is contraindicated for that type of cancer.
2.Require coverage for
any experimental prescription drug that is not approved for any indication by
the United States food and drug administration.
3.Alter any law with
regard to provisions that limit the coverage of prescription drugs that have
not been approved by the United States food and drug administration.
4.Require reimbursement
or coverage for any prescription drug that is not included in the drug
formulary or list of covered prescription drugs specified in the contract.
5.Prohibit a contract
from limiting or excluding coverage of a prescription drug, if the decision to
limit or exclude coverage of the prescription drug is not based primarily on
the coverage of prescription drugs required by this section.
6.Prohibit the use of
deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost sharing in relation to drug
benefits and related medical benefits offered.
P.For
the purposes of subsection O of this section:
1.The
acceptable standard medical reference compendia are the following:
(a)The American
hospital formulary service drug information, a publication of the American
society of health system pharmacists.
(b)The national comprehensive
cancer network drugs and biologics compendium.
(c)Thomson Micromedex
compendium DrugDex.
(d)Elsevier gold
standard's clinical pharmacology compendium.
(e)Other authoritative
compendia as identified by the secretary of the United States department of
health and human services.
2.Medical
literature may be accepted if all of the following apply:
(a)At
least two articles from major peer reviewed professional medical journals have
recognized, based on scientific or medical criteria, the drug's safety and
effectiveness for treatment of the indication for which the drug has been
prescribed.
(b)No article from a
major peer reviewed professional medical journal has concluded, based on
scientific or medical criteria, that the drug is unsafe or ineffective or that
the drug's safety and effectiveness cannot be determined for the treatment of
the indication for which the drug has been prescribed.
(c)The literature meets
the uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals established
by the international committee of medical journal editors or is published in a
journal specified by the United States department of health and human services
as acceptable peer reviewed medical literature pursuant to section 186(t)(2)(B)
of the social security act (42 United States Code section 1395x(t)(2)(B)).
Q.Any contract that is
offered by a blanket disability insurer and that contains a prescription drug
benefit shall provide coverage of medical foods to treat inherited metabolic
disorders as provided by this section.
R.The metabolic
disorders triggering medical foods coverage under this section shall:
1.Be part of the
newborn screening program prescribed in section 36694.
2.Involve amino acid,
carbohydrate or fat metabolism.
3.Have medically
standard methods of diagnosis, treatment and monitoring including
quantification of metabolites in blood, urine or spinal fluid or enzyme or DNA
confirmation in tissues.
4.Require specially
processed or treated medical foods that are generally available only under the
supervision and direction of a physician who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 13 or 17 or a
registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15,
that must be consumed throughout life and without which the person may suffer
serious mental or physical impairment.
S.Medical foods
eligible for coverage under this section shall be prescribed or ordered under
the supervision of a physician licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17
or a registered nurse practitioner who is licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 15 as medically necessary for the therapeutic treatment of an inherited
metabolic disease.
T.An insurer shall
cover at least fifty per cent percent of the cost of
medical foods prescribed to treat inherited metabolic disorders and covered
pursuant to this section. An insurer may limit the maximum annual benefit for
medical foods under this section to five thousand dollars which applies to the
cost of all prescribed modified low protein foods and metabolic formula.
U.Any
blanket disability policy that provides coverage for:
1.Prescription
drugs shall also provide coverage for any prescribed drug or device that is
approved by the United States food and drug administration for use as a contraceptive.
A blanket disability insurer may use a drug formulary, multitiered drug
formulary or list but that formulary or list shall include oral, implant and
injectable contraceptive drugs, intrauterine devices and prescription barrier
methods if the blanket disability insurer does not impose deductibles,
coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment measures for contraceptive
drugs that are greater than the deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other
cost containment measures for other drugs on the same level of the formulary or
list.
2.Outpatient health
care services shall also provide coverage for outpatient contraceptive
services.For the purposes of this paragraph, "outpatient
contraceptive services" means consultations, examinations, procedures and
medical services provided on an outpatient basis and related to the use of
approved United States food and drug administration prescription contraceptive
methods to prevent unintended pregnancies.
V.Notwithstanding
subsection U of this section, a religiously
affiliated employer may require that the insurer provide a blanket disability
policy without coverage for specific items or services required under
subsection U of this section because providing or paying for coverage of the
specific items or services is contrary to the religious beliefs of the
religiously affiliated employer offering the plan.If a religiously
affiliated employer objects to providing coverage for specific items or
services required under subsection U of this section, a written affidavit shall
be filed with the insurer stating the objection.On receipt of the
affidavit, the insurer shall issue to the religiously affiliated employer a
blanket disability policy that excludes coverage for specific items or services
required under subsection U of this section. a religious employer whose religious tenets prohibit
the use of prescribed contraceptive methods may require that the insurer
provide a blanket disability policy without coverage for all approved United
States food and drug administration prescription contraceptive methods. A
religious employer shall submit a written affidavit to the insurer stating that
it is a religious employer. On receipt of the affidavit, the insurer shall
issue to the religious employer a blanket disability policy that excludes
coverage of prescription contraceptive methods.The insurer
shall retain the affidavit for the duration of the blanket disability policy
and any renewals of the policy.
Before a policy is issued, each religious employer that invokes this exemption
shall provide prospective insureds written notice that the religious employer
refuses to cover all approved United States food and drug administration
prescription contraceptive methods for religious reasons. This
subsection shall does not exclude coverage for
prescription contraceptive methods ordered by a health care provider with
prescriptive authority for medical indications other than for contraceptive, abortifacient, abortion or sterilization
purposes.A religiously affiliated employer offering the policy may
state religious beliefs in its affidavit and to prevent an unintended pregnancy. An insurer may
require the insured to first pay for the prescription and then submit a claim
to the insurer along with evidence that the prescription is not for a purpose covered by the objection for a noncontraceptive purpose.An
insurer may charge an administrative fee for handling these claims under this
subsection.A
religious employer may not discriminate against an employee who independently
chooses to obtain insurance coverage or prescriptions for contraceptives from
another source.
W.Subsection
V of this section does not authorize a religiously affiliated employer to
obtain an employee's protected health information or to violate the health
insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (P.L. 104191; 110
Stat. 1936) or any federal regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
X.Subsection
V of this section shall not be construed to restrict or limit any protections
against employment discrimination that are prescribed in federal or state law.
Y.W.For
the purposes of:
1.This section:
(a)"Inherited
metabolic disorder" means a disease caused by an inherited abnormality of
body chemistry and includes a disease tested under the newborn screening
program prescribed in section 36694.
(b)"Medical
foods" means modified low protein foods and metabolic formula.
(c)"Metabolic
formula" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated to be
consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
(ii)Processed or
formulated to be deficient in one or more of the nutrients present in typical
foodstuffs.
(iii)Administered for
the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to
metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who
has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical evaluation.
(iv)Essential to a
person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
(d)"Modified low
protein foods" means foods that are all of the following:
(i)Formulated to be
consumed or administered enterally under the supervision of a physician who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17 or a registered nurse practitioner who is
licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 15.
(ii)Processed or
formulated to contain less than one gram of protein per unit of serving, but
does not include a natural food that is naturally low in protein.
(iii)Administered for
the medical and nutritional management of a person who has limited capacity to
metabolize foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained in the foodstuffs or who
has other specific nutrient requirements as established by medical evaluation.
(iv)Essential to a
person's optimal growth, health and metabolic homeostasis.
2.Subsection E of this
section, the term "child", for purposes of initial coverage of an adopted
child or a child placed for adoption but not for purposes of termination of
coverage of such child, means a person under eighteen years of age.
3.Subsections
V and W of this section, "religiously affiliated employer" means
either:
(a)An
entity for which all of the following apply:
3.Subsection V of this section, "religious
employer" means an entity to which all of the following apply:
(i)(a)The entity
primarily employs persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(ii)(b)The entity
serves primarily persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(iii)(c)The entity is a
nonprofit organization as described in section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or (iii) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
(b)An
entity whose articles of incorporation clearly state that it is a religiously
motivated organization and whose religious beliefs are central to the
organization's operating principles. END_STATUTE
Sec.7.Section
20-2329, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE20-2329.Prescription contraceptive drugs and devices; definition
A.An accountable health
plan that provides a health benefits plan that provides coverage for:
1.Prescription drugs
shall also provide coverage for any prescribed drug or device that is approved
by the United States food and drug administration for use as a contraceptive.
An accountable health plan may use a drug formulary, multitiered drug formulary
or list but that formulary or list shall include oral, implant and injectable
contraceptive drugs, intrauterine devices and prescription barrier methods if
the accountable health plan does not impose deductibles, coinsurance,
copayments or other cost containment measures for contraceptive drugs that are
greater than the deductibles, coinsurance, copayments or other cost containment
measures for other drugs on the same level of the formulary or list.
2.Outpatient health
care services shall also provide coverage for outpatient contraceptive
services. For the purposes of this paragraph, "outpatient contraceptive
services" means consultations, examinations, procedures and medical
services provided on an outpatient basis and related to the use of approved United States food
and drug administration prescription
contraceptive methods to prevent unintended pregnancies.
B.Notwithstanding
subsection A of this section, a religiously
affiliated employer may require that the accountable health plan provide a health
benefits plan without coverage for specific items or services required under
subsection A of this section because providing or paying for coverage of the
specific items or services is contrary to the religious beliefs of the
religiously affiliated employer offering the plan.If a religiously
affiliated employer objects to providing coverage for specific items or
services required under subsection A of this section, a written affidavit shall
be filed with the accountable health plan stating the objection. On receipt of
the affidavit, the accountable health plan shall issue to the religiously
affiliated employer a health benefits plan that excludes coverage for specific
items or services required under subsection A of this section. a religious employer whose
religious tenets prohibit the use of prescribed contraceptive methods may
require that the accountable health plan provide a health benefits plan without
coverage for all approved United States food and drug administration
prescription contraceptive methods.A religious employer shall
submit a written affidavit to the accountable health plan stating that it is a
religious employer. On receipt of the affidavit, the accountable health plan
shall issue to the religious employer a health benefits plan that excludes
coverage of prescription contraceptive methods.The
accountable health plan shall retain the affidavit for the duration of the
health benefits plan and any renewals of the plan.
C.Before enrollment in the plan, each religious employer
that invokes the exemption prescribed in subsection B of this section shall
provide prospective enrollees written notice that the religious employer
refuses to cover all approved United States food and drug administration
prescription contraceptive methods for religious reasons.
C.D.Subsection
B of this section shall does not exclude coverage for
prescription contraceptive methods ordered by a health care provider with
prescriptive authority for medical indications other than for contraceptive, abortifacient, abortion or sterilization
purposes to
prevent an unintended pregnancy. A
religiously affiliated employer offering the plan may state religious beliefs
in its affidavit and
An accountable health plan may require the enrollee to first pay for the
prescription and then submit a claim to the accountable health plan along with
evidence that the prescription is not for a purpose
covered by the objection
for a noncontraceptive purpose.An accountable health plan
may charge an administrative fee for handling claims under this subsection.
D.Subsections
B and C of this section do not authorize a religiously affiliated employer to
obtain an employee's protected health information or to violate the health
insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (P.L. 104191; 110
Stat. 1936) or any federal regulations adopted pursuant to that act.
E.Subsections
B and C of this section shall not be construed to restrict or limit any
protections against employment discrimination that are prescribed in federal or
state law.
F.For
the purposes of this section, "religiously affiliated employer" means
either:
1.An
entity for which all of the following apply:
(a)The
entity primarily employs persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(b)The
entity serves primarily persons who share the religious tenets of the entity.
(c)The
entity is a nonprofit organization as described in section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or
(iii) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.
2.An
entity whose articles of incorporation clearly state that it is a religiously
motivated organization and whose religious beliefs are central to the
organization's operating principles.
E.A religious employer may not discriminate against an
employee who independently chooses to obtain insurance coverage or
prescriptions for contraceptives from another source.
F.For the purposes of this section, "religious
employer" means an entity to which all of the following apply:
1.The entity primarily employs persons who share the
religious tenets of the entity.
2.The entity serves primarily persons who share the
religious tenets of the entity.
3.The entity is a nonprofit organization as described in
section 6033(a)(3)(A)(i) or (iii) of the internal revenue code of
1986, as amended. END_STATUTE
Sec.8.Title 32,
chapter 18, article 3, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section
32-1979, to read:
START_STATUTE32-1979.Duty to fill prescriptions; notification; accommodation;
exceptions; definition
A.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a pharmacy
that is licensed pursuant to this chapter shall properly fill valid
prescription orders presented to the pharmacy by or for a customer.
B.Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a pharmacy
that is licensed pursuant to this chapter shall require its employees to notify
the pharmacy in writing of all categories or types of prescription drugs and
devices that the employee would decline to fill because of the employee's
sincerely held religious beliefs.On receiving this notification,
the pharmacy shall attempt to accommodate the employee if the accommodation can
be made without causing undue hardship to the pharmacy or its customers.In
determining whether a proposed accommodation would cause an undue hardship, the
pharmacy may consider:
1.Whether the proposed accommodation would delay the
filling of prescription orders and result in the pharmacy being unable to fill
certain prescriptions in the equivalent time as the pharmacy is filling other
prescriptions of in-stock drugs or devices at that time.
2.The pharmacy's ability to fill a customer's
prescription at that pharmacy location.
3.The pharmacy's financial costs in implementing the
accommodation.
4.The damage to the pharmacy's reputation or goodwill in
the community due to its failure to provide timely prescription-filling
services.
C.If a customer asks for a prescription drug or device
that is not in stock, the pharmacy shall offer the customer each of the
following options and perform the chosen option without delay:
1.Obtain the drug or device under the pharmacy's
standard procedures for expedited ordering of any drug or device that is not in
stock.
2.Transfer the prescription order to another local
pharmacy of the customer's choice under the pharmacy's standard procedures for
transferring prescription orders for drugs or devices.
3.Return the unfilled prescription order to the customer
and refer the customer to another local pharmacy. The pharmacy shall make a
reasonable effort to refer the customer to a pharmacy that stocks the drug or
device and that is near enough to the referring site to ensure that the
customer has timely access to the drug or device.
D.This section does not prohibit a pharmacy from
refusing to dispense a prescription drug or device if there is a valid medical
concern that the drug or device will cause problems due to therapeutic
duplications, contraindications, drug interactions, incorrect dosage or
duration of drug treatment or abuse or misuse.
E.A pharmacy shall treat each customer with respect and
dignity, make good faith efforts not to embarrass or demean the customer and
attempt to ensure a seamless delivery of prescription services, regardless of
whether the pharmacy has made an accommodation for an employee pursuant to
subsectionB of this section.
F.A pharmacy that violates this section commits an act
of unprofessional conduct and is subject to disciplinary action pursuant to
this chapter.
G.The board shall initiate an investigation of any
allegation of a violation of this section within seven days after receiving a
complaint.
H.For the purposes of this section, "employee"
includes a current employee and an applicant for employment. END_STATUTE
Sec.9.Title 32, chapter 32, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, is
amended by adding section 32-3221, to read:
START_STATUTE32-3221.Rape victims; emergency contraception; referral;
definitions
A.A health professional
who provides care to a female patient of reproductive age who states that she
is the victim of rape at a minimum shall do all of the following:
1.Provide the patient with medical information about emergency
contraception.
2.Verbally inform the patient that the health
professional will provide or prescribe emergency contraception at the patient's
request.
3.Provide or prescribe emergency contraception at the
patient's request.If the health professional provides an emergency
contraception drug, the health professional shall provide the patient with an
initial dose and any follow-up doses that the patient can self-administer or
prescribe the entire course of treatment.
B.A health professional may satisfy the requirements of
this section by referring the patient to another provider for forensic medical
care and emergency contraception.
C.A health professional whose religious tenets prohibit
the use of contraceptive methods may satisfy the requirements of this section
by immediately referring the patient to another health professional who is
immediately available and who will comply with the requirements of this
section.
D.For the purposes of this section:
1."Care" means medical examinations, procedures
and services provided to a patient within seventy-two hours after a rape.
2."Emergency contraception" means a drug or
device that prevents pregnancy after sexual intercourse.
3."Health professional" means a person who is
licensed to prescribe medication pursuant to chapter 13, 15, 17, 25 or 29 of
this title.
4."Nonconsensual" means:
(a)The
patient was coerced by the immediate use or threatened use of force against the
patient.
(b)The
patient was incapable of consent by reason of mental disorder, mental defect,
drugs, alcohol, sleep or any other similar impairment of cognition and the
condition is known or should reasonably have been known to the perpetrator of
the rape. For the purposes of this subdivision, "mental defect" means
the patient is unable to comprehend the distinctly sexual nature of the conduct
or is incapable of understanding or exercising the right to refuse to engage in
the conduct with another. 
5."Rape" means nonconsensual sexual
intercourse involving penetration of the vulva. END_STATUTE
Sec.10.Section 35-196.02, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE35-196.02.Use of public funds or insurance for abortion prohibited;
exception
A.Notwithstanding
any provisions of law to the contrary, no public funds nor tax monies of this
state or any political subdivision of this state nor any federal funds passing
through the state treasury or the treasury of any political subdivision of this
state may be expended for payment to any person or entity for the performance
of any abortion unless an abortion is necessary to save the life of the woman
having the abortion.
B.Notwithstanding any
other law, public monies or tax monies of this state or any political
subdivision of this state shall not be expended directly or indirectly to pay
the costs, premiums or charges associated with a health insurance policy,
contract or plan that provides coverage, benefits or services related to the
performance of any abortion unless an abortion is necessary to either:
1.Save the life of the
woman having the abortion.
2.Avert substantial and
irreversible impairment of a major bodily function of the woman having the
abortion.
C.Notwithstanding
any other law, public monies or tax monies of this state or any political
subdivision of this state or any federal funds passing through the state
treasury or the treasury of any political subdivision of this state or monies
paid by students as part of tuition or fees to a state university or a
community college shall not be expended or allocated for training to perform
abortions.
D.C.This
section does not prohibit the state from complying with the requirements of
federal law in title XIX and title XXI of the social security act. END_STATUTE
Sec.11.Repeal
Section 35-196.05, Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.12.Section
36-132, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-132.Department of health services; functions; contracts
A.The department shall, in addition to other powers and duties
vested in it by law, shall:
1.Protect the health of
the people of the state.
2.Promote the
development, maintenance, efficiency and effectiveness of local health
departments or districts of sufficient population and area that they can be
sustained with reasonable economy and efficient administration, provide
technical consultation and assistance to local health departments or districts,
provide financial assistance to local health departments or districts and
services that meet minimum standards of personnel and performance and in
accordance with a plan and budget submitted by the local health department or
districts to the department for approval, and recommend the qualifications of
all personnel.
3.Collect, preserve,
tabulate and interpret all information required by law in reference to births,
deaths and all vital facts, and obtain, collect and preserve information
relating to the health of the people of the state and the prevention of
diseases as may be useful in the discharge of functions of the department not
in conflict with the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title, and
sections 36693, 36694 and 39122.
4.Operate such
sanitariums, hospitals or other facilities assigned to the department by law or
by the governor.
5.Conduct a statewide
program of health education relevant to the powers and duties of the department,
prepare educational materials and disseminate information as to conditions
affecting health, including basic information for the promotion of good health
on the part of individuals and communities, and prepare and disseminate
technical information concerning public health to the health professions, local
health officials and hospitals. In cooperation with the department of
education, the department of health services shall prepare and disseminate
materials and give technical assistance for the purpose of education of
children in hygiene, sanitation and personal and public health, and provide
consultation and assistance in community organization to counties, communities
and groups of people.
6.Administer or
supervise a program of public health nursing, prescribe the minimum
qualifications of all public health nurses engaged in official public health
work, and encourage and aid in coordinating local public health nursing
services.
7.Encourage and aid in
coordinating local programs concerning control of preventable diseases in
accordance with statewide plans that shall be formulated by the department.
8.Encourage and aid in
coordinating local programs concerning maternal and child health, including
midwifery, antepartum and postpartum care, infant and preschool health and the
health of school children schoolchildren, including
special fields such as the prevention of blindness and conservation of sight
and hearing.
9.Encourage and aid in
the coordination of local programs concerning nutrition of the people of the
state.
10.Encourage,
administer and provide dental health care services and aid in coordinating
local programs concerning dental public health, in cooperation with the Arizona
dental association. The department may bill and receive payment for costs
associated with providing dental health care services and shall deposit the
monies in the oral health fund established by section 36138.
11.Establish and
maintain adequate serological, bacteriological, parasitological, entomological
and chemical laboratories with qualified assistants and facilities necessary
for routine examinations and analyses and for investigations and research in
matters affecting public health.
12.Supervise,
inspect and enforce the rules concerning the operation of public bathing places
and public and semipublic swimming pools adopted pursuant to section 36136,
subsection H, paragraph 10.
13.Take all actions
necessary or appropriate to ensure that bottled water sold to the public and
water used to process, store, handle, serve and transport food and drink are
free from filth, diseasecausing substances and organisms and
unwholesome, poisonous, deleterious or other foreign substances. All state
agencies and local health agencies involved with water quality shall provide to
the department any assistance requested by the director to ensure that this
paragraph is effectuated.
14.Enforce the state
food, caustic alkali and acid laws in accordance with chapter 2, article 2 of
this title, chapter 8, article 1 of this title and chapter 9, article 4 of this
title, and collaborate in the enforcement of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act of 1938 (52 Stat. 1040; 21 United
States Code sections 1 through 905).
15.Recruit and train
personnel for state, local and district health departments.
16.Conduct
continuing evaluations of state, local and district public health programs,
study and appraise state health problems and develop broad plans for use by the
department and for recommendation to other agencies, professions and local
health departments for the best solution of these problems.
17.License and
regulate health care institutions according to chapter 4 of this title.
18.Issue or direct
the issuance of licenses and permits required by law.
19.Participate in
the state civil defense program and develop the necessary organization and
facilities to meet wartime or other disasters.
20.Subject to the
availability of monies, develop and administer programs in perinatal health
care, including:
(a)Screening in early
pregnancy for detecting high-risk
conditions.
(b)Comprehensive
prenatal health care.
(c)Maternity, delivery
and postpartum care.
(d)Perinatal
consultation, including transportation of the pregnant woman to a perinatal
care center when medically indicated.
(e)Perinatal education
oriented toward professionals and consumers, focusing on early detection and
adequate intervention to avert premature labor and delivery.
21.License and
regulate the health and safety of group homes for persons with developmental disabilities.The
department shall issue a license to an accredited facility for a period of the
accreditation, except that no licensing period shall be longer than three
years.The department is authorized to conduct an inspection of an
accredited facility to ensure that the facility meets health and safety
licensure standards.The results of the accreditation survey shall
be public information.A copy of the final accreditation report
shall be filed with the department of health services. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "accredited" means accredited by a nationally recognized
accreditation organization.
22.Subject to the availability of monies,
including federal monies that are available for teenager pregnancy prevention
programs, administer or supervise a program to reduce the risks of unintended
pregnancy by improving awareness of emergency contraception. The program shall
provide information on the department's website and social networking sites
about the purpose, risks and availability of emergency contraception.
B.The department may
accept from the state or federal government, or any agency of the state or
federal government, and from private donors, trusts, foundations or
eleemosynary corporations or organizations grants or donations for or in aid of
the construction or maintenance of any program, project, research or facility
authorized by this title, or in aid of the extension or enforcement of any
program, project or facility authorized, regulated or prohibited by this title,
and enter into contracts with the federal government, or an agency of the
federal government, and with private donors, trusts, foundations or
eleemosynary corporations or organizations, to carry out such
purposes.All monies made available under this section are special
project grants.The department may also expend these monies to
further applicable scientific research within this state.
C.The department, in
establishing fees authorized by this section, shall comply with title 41,
chapter 6. The department shall not set a fee at more than the department's
cost of providing the service for which the fee is charged. State agencies are
exempt from all fees imposed pursuant to this section.
D.The department may
enter into contracts with organizations that perform nonrenal organ transplant
operations and organizations that primarily assist in the management of end
stage renal disease and related problems to provide, as payors of last resort,
prescription medications necessary to supplement treatment and transportation
to and from treatment facilities. The contracts may provide for department
payment of administrative costs it specifically authorizes. END_STATUTE
Sec.13.Section
36-404, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-404.Limitation of disclosure of information
A.Information received and records kept by the
department for the purpose of administering this chapter are available to the
public except:
1.Information obtained for the purposes of articles 4 and 5 of this
chapter.
2.Personally identifiable medical information or
any information from which a patient or the patient's family might be
identified.
3.Sources of information that cause the department
to believe that an inspection of an institution is needed to determine the
extent of compliance with this chapter and rules adopted pursuant to this
chapter.
4.Personally identifiable information of a
physician that is received and any records kept regarding the physician's
admitting privileges pursuant to section 36449.02.
B.The department may release information listed
under subsection A of this section to an officer of the court pursuant to a
court order, a department or agency of this state or the federal government, a
law enforcement agency or a county medical examiner if the release of this
information is necessary and pertinent to an investigation or proceeding unless
the release of this information is prohibited by federal or state law. The
recipient shall maintain patient and source name confidentiality. END_STATUTE
Sec.14.Section
36-449.01, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-449.01.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Abortion"
means the use of any means a surgical instrument or a machine with
the intent to terminate a woman's pregnancy for reasons other than to increase
the probability of a live birth, to preserve the life or health of the child
after a live birth, to terminate an ectopic pregnancy or to remove a dead
fetus.Abortion does not include birth control devices or oral
contraceptives.
2."Abortion
clinic" means a facility, other than a an accredited hospital, in
which five or more first trimester abortions in any
month or any second or third trimester first, second or third trimester abortions
are performed.
3."Director" means the director of the
department of health services.
4."Medication
abortion" means the use of any medication, drug or other substance that is
intended to cause or induce an abortion.
5."Perform"
includes the initial administration of any medication, drug or other substance
intended to cause or induce an abortion.
6."Surgical
abortion" has the same meaning prescribed in section 362151.
7.3."Viable
fetus" has the same meaning prescribed in section 362301.01.END_STATUTE
Sec.15.Section 36-449.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-449.02.Abortion clinics; licensure requirements
A.Beginning on April 1, 2000, an abortion clinic
shall meet the same licensure requirements as prescribed in article 2 of this
chapter for health care institutions.On
initial licensure and any subsequent renewal, an abortion clinic shall submit
to the director all documentation required by this article, including
verification that the clinic's physicians who are required to be available have
admitting privileges at a health care institution as required by section 36449.03,
subsection C, paragraph 3.
B.An abortion clinic that holds an unclassified
health care facility license issued before August 6, 1999 may retain that
classification until April 1, 2000 subject to compliance with all laws that
relate to unclassified health care facilities.
C.Beginning on April 1, 2000, abortion clinics
shall comply with department requirements for abortion clinics and department
rules that govern abortion clinics.
D.If the
director determines that there is reasonable cause to believe an abortion
clinic is not adhering to the licensing requirements of this article or any
other law or rule concerning abortion, the director and any duly designated
employee or agent of the director, including county health representatives and
county or municipal fire inspectors, consistent with standard medical
practices, may enter on and into the premises of the abortion clinic that is
licensed or required to be licensed pursuant to this article during regular
business hours of the abortion clinic to determine compliance with this
article, rules adopted pursuant to this article, local fire ordinances or rules
and any other law or rule relating to abortion.
E.An application for
licensure pursuant to this article constitutes permission for, and complete
acquiescence in, an entry or inspection of the premises during the pendency of
the application and, if licensed, during the term of the license.
F.If an inspection
conducted pursuant to this section reveals that an abortion clinic is not
adhering to the licensing requirements prescribed pursuant to this article or
any other law or rule concerning abortion, the director may take action
authorized by this article.
G.An abortion clinic
whose license has been suspended or revoked pursuant to this article or section
36424 is subject to inspection on application for relicensure or
reinstatement of the license.
H.In any proceeding in which the constitutionality, legality or
application of this section is challenged, the attorney general or any county
or city attorney who wishes to defend the law has the right to intervene as a
party and is deemed to have proper standing in the matter.The only
objection that may be raised to a motion to intervene as of right pursuant to
this subsection is that the proposed intervenor does not have a good faith
intention to defend the law. Any party or proposed intervenor may raise this
objection.Notwithstanding section 41192, the department may
employ legal counsel and make an expenditure or incur an indebtedness for legal
services for the purposes of defending this section. END_STATUTE
Sec.16.Section
36-449.03, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-449.03.Abortion clinics; rules
A.The director shall
adopt rules for an abortion clinic's physical facilities.At a minimum
these rules shall prescribe standards for:
1.Adequate private
space that is specifically designated for interviewing, counseling and medical
evaluations.
2.Dressing rooms for
staff and patients.
3.Appropriate lavatory
areas.
4.Areas for preprocedure
hand washing.
5.Private procedure
rooms.
6.Adequate lighting and
ventilation for abortion procedures.
7.Surgical or
gynecologic examination tables and other fixed equipment.
8.Postprocedure
recovery rooms that are supervised, staffed and equipped to meet the patients'
needs.
9.Emergency exits to
accommodate a stretcher or gurney.
10.Areas for
cleaning and sterilizing instruments.
11.Adequate areas
for the secure storage of medical records and necessary equipment and supplies.
12.The display in
the abortion clinic, in a place that is conspicuous to all patients, of the
clinic's current license issued by the department.
B.The director shall
adopt rules to prescribe abortion clinic supplies and equipment standards,
including supplies and equipment that are required to be immediately available
for use or in an emergency.At a minimum these rules shall:
1.Prescribe required
equipment and supplies, including medications, required for the conduct, in an
appropriate fashion, of any abortion procedure that the medical staff of the
clinic anticipates performing and for monitoring the progress of each patient
throughout the procedure and recovery period.
2.Require that the
number or amount of equipment and supplies at the clinic is adequate at all
times to assure sufficient quantities of clean and sterilized durable equipment
and supplies to meet the needs of each patient.
3.Prescribe required
equipment, supplies and medications that shall be available and ready for
immediate use in an emergency and requirements for written protocols and
procedures to be followed by staff in an emergency, such as the loss of
electrical power.
4.Prescribe required
equipment and supplies for required laboratory tests and requirements for
protocols to calibrate and maintain laboratory equipment at the abortion clinic
or operated by clinic staff.
5.Require ultrasound
equipment in facilities that
provide abortions after twelve weeks' gestation.
6.Require that all
equipment is safe for the patient and the staff, meets applicable federal
standards and is checked annually to ensure safety and appropriate calibration.
C.The director shall
adopt rules relating to abortion clinic personnel. At a minimum these rules
shall require that:
1.The abortion clinic
designate a medical director of the abortion clinic who is licensed pursuant to
title 32, chapter 13, 17 or 29.
2.Physicians performing
abortions surgery are licensed pursuant to title 32,
chapter 13 or 17, demonstrate competence in the procedure involved and are
acceptable to the medical director of the abortion clinic.
3.A physician with admitting privileges at an
accredited hosptial in this state is available. :

(a)For
a surgical abortion who has admitting privileges at a health care institution
that is classified by the director as a hospital pursuant to section 36405,
subsection B and that is within thirty miles of the abortion clinic.
(b)For
a medication abortion who has admitting privileges at a health care institution
that is classified by the director as a hospital pursuant to section 36405,
subsection B.
4.If a physician is not
present, a registered nurse, nurse practitioner, licensed practical nurse or
physician assistant is present and remains at the clinic when abortions are
performed to provide postoperative monitoring and care, or monitoring and care after inducing a medication
abortion, until each patient who had an abortion that day is
discharged.
5.Surgical assistants
receive training in counseling, patient advocacy and the specific
responsibilities of the services the surgical assistants provide.
6.Volunteers receive
training in the specific responsibilities of the services the volunteers
provide, including counseling and patient advocacy as provided in the rules
adopted by the director for different types of volunteers based on their
responsibilities.
D.The director shall
adopt rules relating to the medical screening and evaluation of each abortion
clinic patient.At a minimum these rules shall require:
1.A medical history, including
the following:
(a)Reported allergies
to medications, antiseptic solutions or latex.
(b)Obstetric and
gynecologic history.
(c)Past surgeries.
2.A physical
examination, including a bimanual examination estimating uterine size and
palpation of the adnexa.
3.The appropriate
laboratory tests, including:
(a)For an abortion in which an
ultrasound examination is not performed before the abortion procedure, urine
or blood tests for pregnancy performed before the abortion procedure.
(b)A test for anemia.
(c)Rh typing, unless
reliable written documentation of blood type is available.
(d)Other tests as
indicated from the physical examination.
4.An ultrasound
evaluation for all patients
who elect to have an abortion after twelve weeks' gestation.The
rules shall require that if a person who is not a physician performs an
ultrasound examination, that person shall have documented evidence that the
person completed a course in the operation of ultrasound equipment as
prescribed in rule.The physician or other health care professional
shall review, at the request of the patient, the ultrasound evaluation results
with the patient before the abortion procedure is performed, including the
probable gestational age of the fetus.
5.That the physician is
responsible for estimating the gestational age of the fetus based on the
ultrasound examination and obstetric standards in keeping with established
standards of care regarding the estimation of fetal age as defined in rule and
shall write the estimate in the patient's medical history.The
physician shall keep original prints of each ultrasound examination of a
patient in the patient's medical history file.
E.The director shall
adopt rules relating to the abortion procedure. At a minimum these rules shall
require:
1.That medical
personnel is available to all patients throughout the abortion procedure.
2.Standards for the
safe conduct of abortion procedures that conform to obstetric standards in
keeping with established standards of care regarding the estimation of fetal
age as defined in rule.
3.Appropriate use of
local anesthesia, analgesia and sedation if ordered by the physician.
4.The use of
appropriate precautions, such as the establishment of intravenous access at
least for patients undergoing second or third trimester abortions.
5.The use of
appropriate monitoring of the vital signs and other defined signs and markers
of the patient's status throughout the abortion procedure and during the
recovery period until the patient's condition is deemed to be stable in the
recovery room.
6.That
any medication, drug or other substance used to induce an abortion is
administered in compliance with the protocol that is authorized by the United
States food and drug administration and that is outlined in the final printing
labeling instructions for that medication, drug or substance.
F.The director shall
adopt rules that prescribe minimum recovery room standards.At a
minimum these rules shall require that:
1.For a surgical abortion, Immediate postprocedure
care, or care provided after inducing a medication
abortion, consists of observation in a supervised recovery room for
as long as the patient's condition warrants.
2.The clinic arrange
hospitalization if any complication beyond the management capability of the
staff occurs or is suspected.
3.A licensed health
professional who is trained in the management of the recovery area and is
capable of providing basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation and related emergency
procedures remains on the premises of the abortion clinic until all patients
are discharged.
4.For a surgical abortion, A physician with
admitting privileges at ahealth care
institution that is classified by the director as a hospital pursuant to
section 36405, subsection B and that is within thirty miles of the
abortion clinic an
accredited hospital in this state remains on the premises of the
abortion clinic until all patients are stable and are ready to leave the
recovery room and to facilitate the transfer of emergency cases if hospitalization
of the patient or viable fetus is necessary.A physician shall sign
the discharge order and be readily accessible and available until the last
patient is discharged.
5.A physician discusses
RhO(d) immune globulin with each patient for whom it is indicated and assures
it is offered to the patient in the immediate postoperative period or that it
will be available to her within seventytwo hours after completion of the
abortion procedure.If the patient refuses, a refusal form approved
by the department shall be signed by the patient and a witness and included in
the medical record.
6.Written instructions
with regard to postabortion coitus, signs of possible problems and general
aftercare are given to each patient.Each patient shall have specific
instructions regarding access to medical care for complications, including a
telephone number to call for medical emergencies.
7.There is a specified
minimum length of time that a patient remains in the recovery room by type of
abortion procedure and duration of gestation.
8.The
physician assures that a licensed health professional from the abortion clinic
makes a good faith effort to contact the patient by telephone, with the
patient's consent, within twentyfour hours after asurgical abortion surgery to assess the patient's recovery.
9.Equipment and
services are located in the recovery room to provide appropriate emergency
resuscitative and life support procedures pending the transfer of the patient
or viable fetus to the hospital.
G.The director shall
adopt rules that prescribe standards for followup visits.At
a minimum these rules shall require that:
1.For a surgical abortion, A postabortion medical
visit is offered and, if requested, scheduled for three weeks after the
abortion, including a medical examination and a review of the results of all
laboratory tests. For a medication abortion, the
rules shall require that a postabortion medical visit is scheduled between one
week and three weeks after the initial dose of a medication abortion to confirm
the pregnancy is completely terminated and to assess the degree of bleeding.
2.A urine pregnancy
test is obtained at the time of the followup visit to rule out
continuing pregnancy.If a continuing pregnancy is suspected, the
patient shall be evaluated and a physician who performs abortions shall be
consulted.
H.The director shall
adopt rules to prescribe minimum abortion clinic incident
reporting.At a minimum these rules shall require that:
1.The abortion clinic
records each incident resulting in a patient's or viable fetus' serious injury
occurring at an abortion clinic and shall report them in writing to the
department within ten days after the incident. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "serious injury" means an injury that occurs at an
abortion clinic and that creates a serious risk of substantial impairment of a
major body organ and includes any injury or
condition that requires ambulance transportation of the patient.
2.If a patient's death
occurs, other than a fetal death properly reported pursuant to law, the
abortion clinic reports it to the department not later than the next department
work day.
3.Incident reports are
filed with the department and appropriate professional regulatory boards.
I.The
director shall adopt rules relating to enforcement of this article. At a
minimum, these rules shall require that:
1.For
an abortion clinic that is not in substantial compliance with this article and
the rules adopted pursuant to this article or that is in substantial compliance
but refuses to carry out a plan of correction acceptable to the department of
any deficiencies that are listed on the department's state of deficiency, the
department may do any of the following:
(a)Assess
a civil penalty pursuant to section 36431.01.
(b)Impose
an intermediate sanction pursuant to section 36427.
(c)Suspend
or revoke a license pursuant to section 36427.
(d)Deny
a license.
(e)Bring
an action for an injunction pursuant to section 36430.
2.In
determining the appropriate enforcement action, the department considers the
threat of the health, safety and welfare of the abortion clinic's patients or
the general public, including:
(a)Whether
the abortion clinic has repeated violations of statutes or rules.
(b)Whether
the abortion clinic has engaged in a pattern of noncompliance.
(c)The
type, severity and number of violations.
J.I.The
department shall not release personally identifiable patient or physician
information.
K.J.The
rules adopted by the director pursuant to this section do not limit the ability
of a physician or other health professional to advise a patient on any health
issue. END_STATUTE
Sec.17.Section
36-2151, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2151.Definitions
In this article, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Abortion"
means the use of any means to terminate the clinically diagnosable pregnancy of
a woman with knowledge that the termination by those means will cause, with
reasonable likelihood, the death of the unborn child. Abortion does not include
birth control devices, oral contraceptives used to inhibit or prevent
ovulation, conception or the implantation of a fertilized ovum in the uterus or
the use of any means to save the life or preserve
the health of the unborn child increase the probability of a live birth, to preserve the
life or health of the child after a live birth, to terminate an ectopic
pregnancy or to remove a dead fetus.
2."Auscultation"
means the act of listening for sounds made by internal organs of the unborn
child, specifically for a heartbeat, using an ultrasound transducer and fetal
heart rate monitor.
3.2."Conception"
means the fusion of a human spermatozoon with a human ovum.
4.3."Gestational
age" means the age of the unborn child as calculated from the first day of
the last menstrual period of the pregnant woman.
5.4."Health
professional" has the same meaning prescribed in section 323201.
6.5."Medical
emergency" means a condition that, on the basis of the physician's good
faith clinical judgment, so complicates the medical condition of a pregnant
woman as to necessitate the immediate abortion of her pregnancy to avert her death
or for which a delay will create serious risk of substantial and irreversible
impairment of a major bodily function.
7."Medication
abortion" means the use of any medication, drug or other substance that is
intended to cause or induce an abortion.
8.6."Physician"
means a person who is licensed pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or 17.
9.7."Pregnant"
or "pregnancy" means a female reproductive condition of having a
developing unborn child in the body and that begins with conception.
10.8."Probable
gestational age" means the gestational age of the unborn child at the time
the abortion is planned to be performed and as determined with reasonable
probability by the attending physician.
11.9."Surgical
abortion" means the use of a surgical instrument or a machine to terminate
the clinically diagnosable pregnancy of a woman with knowledge that the
termination by those means will cause, with reasonable likelihood, the death of
the unborn child. Surgical abortion does not include the use of any means to
increase the probability of a live birth, to preserve the life or health of the
child after a live birth, to terminate an ectopic pregnancy or to remove a dead
fetus.Surgical abortion does not include patient care incidental to
the procedure.
12."Ultrasound"
means the use of ultrasonic waves for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes to
monitor a developing unborn child.
13.10."Unborn
child" means the offspring of human beings from conception until birth. END_STATUTE
Sec.18.Section
36-2152, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2152.Parental consent; exception; hearings; time limits;
violations; classification; civil relief; statute of limitations
A.In addition to the other requirements of this
chapter section 362153,
a person shall not knowingly perform an abortion on a pregnant unemancipated
minor unless the attending physician has secured the written and notarized
consent from one of the minor's parents or the minor's guardian or conservator
or unless a judge of the superior court authorizes the physician to perform the
abortion pursuant to subsection B of this section. Notwithstanding section 41319,
the notarized statement of parental consent and the description of the document
or notarial act recorded in the notary journal are confidential and are not
public records.
B.A judge of the
superior court, on petition or motion, and after an appropriate hearing, shall
authorize a physician to perform the abortion if the judge determines that the
pregnant minor is mature and capable of giving informed consent to the proposed
abortion. If the judge determines that the pregnant minor is not mature or if
the pregnant minor does not claim to be mature, the judge shall determine
whether the performance of an abortion on her without the consent from one of
her parents or her guardian or conservator would be in her best interests and
shall authorize a physician to perform the abortion without consent if the
judge concludes that the pregnant minor's best interests would be served.
C.If the pregnant minor
claims to be mature at a proceeding held pursuant to subsection B of this
section, the minor must prove by clear and convincing evidence that she is
sufficiently mature and capable of giving informed consent without consulting
her parent or legal guardian based on her experience level, perspective and
judgment.In assessing the pregnant minor's experience level, the
court may consider, among other relevant factors, the minor's age and
experiences working outside the home, living away from home, traveling on her
own, handling personal finances and making other significant
decisions.In assessing the pregnant minor's perspective, the court may
consider, among other relevant factors, what steps the minor took to explore
her options and the extent to which she considered and weighed the potential
consequences of each option.In assessing the pregnant minor's
judgment, the court may consider, among other relevant factors, the minor's
conduct since learning of her pregnancy and her intellectual ability to
understand her options and to make an informed decision.
D.The pregnant minor
may participate in the court proceedings on her own behalf. The court shall
may appoint a guardian ad litem for her. The court shall advise her
that she has the right to court appointed
courtappointed counsel
and, on her request, shall provide her with counsel unless she appears through
private counsel or she knowingly and intelligently waives her right to counsel.
E.Proceedings in the
court under this section are confidential and have precedence over other
pending matters. Members of the public shall not inspect, obtain copies of or
otherwise have access to records of court proceedings under this section unless
authorized by law.A judge who conducts proceedings under this
section shall make in writing specific factual findings and legal conclusions
supporting the decision and shall order a confidential record of the evidence
to be maintained, including the judge's own findings and conclusions. The
minor may file the petition using a fictitious name. For the purposes of this
subsection, public does not include judges, clerks, administrators,
professionals or other persons employed by or working under the supervision of
the court or employees of other public agencies who are authorized by state or
federal rule or law to inspect and copy closed court records.
F.The court shall hold
the hearing and shall issue a ruling within fortyeight hours, excluding
weekends and holidays, after the petition is filed.If the court
fails to issue a ruling within this time period, the petition is deemed to have
been granted and the consent requirement is waived.
G.An expedited
confidential appeal is available to a pregnant minor for whom the court denies
an order authorizing an abortion without parental consent.The
appellate court shall hold the hearing and issue a ruling within fortyeight
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, after the petition for appellate review
is filed. Filing fees are not required of the pregnant minor at either the
trial or the appellate level.
H.Parental consent or
judicial authorization is not required under this section if either:
1.The pregnant minor
certifies to the attending physician that the pregnancy resulted from sexual
conduct with a minor by the minor's parent, stepparent, uncle, grandparent,
sibling, adoptive parent, legal guardian or foster parent or by a person who
lives in the same household with the minor and the minor's mother. The
physician performing the abortion shall report the sexual conduct with a minor
to the proper law enforcement officials pursuant to section 133620 and
shall preserve and forward a sample of the fetal tissue to these officials for
use in a criminal investigation.
2.The attending
physician certifies in the pregnant minor's medical record that, on the basis
of the physician's good faith clinical judgment, the pregnant minor has a
condition that so complicates her medical condition as to necessitate the
immediate abortion of her pregnancy to avert her death or for which a delay
will create serious risk of substantial and irreversible impairment of major
bodily function.
I.A
person who performs an abortion in violation of this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor. A person who intentionally causes, aids or assists a
minor in obtaining an abortion in violation of this section is guilty of a
class 1 misdemeanor. A person is not subject to any liability under this
section if the person establishes by written evidence that the person relied on
evidence sufficient to convince a careful and prudent person that the
representations of the pregnant minor regarding information necessary to comply
with this section are true.
J.In addition to other
remedies available under the common or statutory law of this state, one or both
of the minor's parents or the minor's guardian may bring a civil action in the
superior court in the county in which the parents or the guardian resides to
obtain appropriate relief for a violation of this section, unless the pregnancy
resulted from the criminal conduct of the parent or guardian. The civil action
may be based on a claim that failure to obtain consent was a result of simple
negligence, gross negligence, wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other
legal standard of care. The civil action may be
brought against the person who performs the abortion in violation of this
section and any person who causes, aids or assists a minor to obtain an
abortion without meeting the requirements of this section. Relief
pursuant to this subsection includes the following:
1.Money damages for all
psychological, emotional and physical injuries that result from the violation
of this section.
2.Statutory damages in
an amount equal to five thousand dollars or three times the cost of the
abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney
fees and costs.
K.A civil action
brought pursuant to this section must be initiated within six years after the
violation occurred.
L.The
consent required by this section must be obtained on a form prescribed by the
department of health services. At a minimum, the form must:
1.List
the possible medical risks that may occur with any surgical, medical or
diagnostic procedure, including the potential for infection, blood clots,
hemorrhage, allergic reactions and death.
2.List
the possible medical risks that may occur with a surgical abortion, including
hemorrhage, uterine perforation, sterility, injury to the bowel or bladder, a
possible hysterectomy as a result of a complication or injury during the
procedure and failure to remove all products of conception that may result in
an additional procedure.
3.List
the possible medical risks that may occur with a medication abortion, including
hemorrhage, infection, failure to remove all products of conception that may
result in an additional procedure, sterility and the possible continuation of
the pregnancy.
4.Require
the pregnant minor's and the pregnant minor's parent's initials on each page of
the form and a full signature on the final page of the form.
5.Include
a space for the notary's signature and seal on the final page of the form.
M.The
physician must maintain the form in the pregnant minor's records for seven
years after the date of the procedure or five years after the date of the
minor's maturity, whichever is longer. END_STATUTE
Sec.19.Section 36-2153, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2153.Informed consent; requirements;
information; violation; civil relief; statute of limitations 
A.An abortion shall not be performed or induced
without the voluntary and informed consent of the woman on whom the abortion is
to be performed or induced.Except in the case of a medical
emergency and in addition to the other requirements
of this chapter, consent to an abortion is voluntary and informed
only if all of the following are true:
1.At least twentyfour hours before the
abortion, the physician who is to perform the abortion or the referring
physician has informed the woman, orally and in person, of:
(a)The name of the physician who will perform the
abortion.
(b)The nature of the proposed procedure or
treatment.
(c)The immediate and long-term medical risks
associated with the procedure that a reasonable patient would consider material
to the decision of whether or not to undergo the abortion.
(d)Alternatives to the procedure or treatment that
a reasonable patient would consider material to the decision of whether or not
to undergo the abortion.
(e)The probable gestational age of the unborn child
at the time the abortion is to be performed.
(f)The probable anatomical and physiological
characteristics of the unborn child at the time the abortion is to be
performed.
(g)The medical risks associated with carrying the
child to term.
2.At least twentyfour hours before the
abortion, the physician who is to perform the abortion, the referring physician
or a qualified physician, physician assistant, nurse, psychologist or licensed
behavioral health professional to whom the responsibility has been delegated by
either physician has informed the woman, orally and in person, that:
(a)Medical assistance benefits may be available for
prenatal care, childbirth and neonatal care.
(b)The father of the unborn child is liable to
assist in the support of the child, even if he has offered to pay for the
abortion. In the case of rape or incest, this information may be omitted.
(c)Public and private agencies and services are
available to assist the woman during her pregnancy and after the birth of her
child if she chooses not to have an abortion, whether she chooses to keep the
child or place the child for adoption.
(d)It is unlawful for any person to coerce a woman
to undergo an abortion.
(e)The woman is free to withhold or withdraw her
consent to the abortion at any time without affecting her right to future care
or treatment and without the loss of any state or federally funded benefits to
which she might otherwise be entitled.
(f)The department of
health services maintains a website that describes the unborn child and lists
the agencies that offer alternatives to abortion.
(g)The woman has a right
to review the website and that a printed copy of the materials on the website
will be provided to her free of charge if she chooses to review these
materials.
(h)It may be possible to
reverse the effects of a medication abortion if the woman changes her mind but
that time is of the essence.
(i)Information on and
assistance with reversing the effects of a medication abortion is available on
the department of health services' website.
3.The information in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
subsection is provided to the woman individually and in a private room to
protect her privacy and to ensure that the information focuses on her
individual circumstances and that she has adequate opportunity to ask
questions.
4.The woman certifies in writing before the
abortion that the information required to be provided pursuant to paragraphs 1
and 2 of this subsection has been provided.
B.If a medical emergency compels the performance of
an abortion, the physician shall inform the woman, before the abortion if
possible, of the medical indications supporting the physician's judgment that
an abortion is necessary to avert the woman's death or to avert substantial and
irreversible impairment of a major bodily function.
C.The department of health
services shall establish and shall annually update a website that includes a
link to a printable version of all materials listed on the website. The
materials must be written in an easily understood manner and printed in a
typeface that is large enough to be clearly legible.The website
must include all of the following materials:
1.Information that is
organized geographically by location and that is designed to inform the woman
about public and private agencies and services that are available to assist a
woman through pregnancy, at childbirth and while her child is dependent,
including adoption agencies. The materials shall include a comprehensive list
of the agencies, a description of the services they offer and the manner in
which these agencies may be contacted, including the agencies' telephone
numbers and website addresses.
2.Information on the
availability of medical assistance benefits for prenatal care, childbirth and
neonatal care.
3.A statement that it is
unlawful for any person to coerce a woman to undergo an abortion.
4.A statement that any
physician who performs an abortion on a woman without obtaining the woman's
voluntary and informed consent or without affording her a private medical
consultation may be liable to the woman for damages in a civil action.
5.A statement that the
father of a child is liable to assist in the support of that child, even if the
father has offered to pay for an abortion, and that the law allows adoptive
parents to pay costs of prenatal care, childbirth and neonatal care.
6.Information that is
designed to inform the woman of the probable anatomical and physiological
characteristics of the unborn child at twoweek gestational increments
from fertilization to full term, including pictures or drawings representing
the development of unborn children at twoweek gestational increments and
any relevant information on the possibility of the unborn child's
survival.The pictures or drawings must contain the dimensions of
the unborn child and must be realistic and appropriate for each stage of
pregnancy. The information provided pursuant to this paragraph must be
objective, nonjudgmental and designed to convey only accurate scientific
information about the unborn child at the various gestational ages.
7.Objective information
that describes the methods of abortion procedures commonly employed, the
medical risks commonly associated with each procedure, the possible detrimental
psychological effects of abortion and the medical risks commonly associated
with carrying a child to term.
8.Information on the
potential ability of qualified medical professionals to reverse a medication
abortion, including information directing women where to obtain further
information and assistance in locating a medical professional who can aid in
the reversal of a medication abortion.
D.C.An individual
who is not a physician shall not perform a surgical abortion.
E.D.A person shall
not write or communicate a prescription for a drug or drugs to induce an
abortion or require or obtain payment for a service provided to a patient who
has inquired about an abortion or scheduled an abortion until the expiration of
the twenty-fourhour reflection period required by subsection A of this
section.
F.E.A person shall
not intimidate or coerce in any way any person to obtain an abortion. A
parent, a guardian or any other person shall not coerce a minor to obtain an
abortion. If a minor is denied financial support by the minor's parents,
guardians or custodian due to the minor's refusal to have an abortion
performed, the minor is deemed emancipated for the purposes of eligibility for
public assistance benefits, except that the emancipated minor may not use these
benefits to obtain an abortion.
G.An abortion clinic as
defined in section 36449.01 shall conspicuously post signs that are
visible to all who enter the abortion clinic, that are clearly readable and
that state it is unlawful for any person to force a woman to have an abortion
and a woman who is being forced to have an abortion has the right to contact
any local or state law enforcement or social service agency to receive
protection from any actual or threatened physical, emotional or psychological
abuse. The signs shall be posted in the waiting room, consultation rooms and
procedure rooms.
H.A person shall not
require a woman to obtain an abortion as a provision in a contract or as a
condition of employment.
I.F.A physician who
knowingly violates this section commits an act of unprofessional conduct and is
subject to license suspension or revocation pursuant to title 32, chapter 13 or
17.
J.G.In addition to
other remedies available under the common or statutory law of this state, any
of the following may file a civil action to obtain appropriate relief for a
violation of this section:
1.A woman on whom an abortion has been performed
without her informed consent as required by this section.
2.The father of the unborn child if married to the
mother at the time she received the abortion, unless the pregnancy resulted from
the plaintiff's criminal conduct.
3.The maternal grandparents of the unborn child if
the mother was not at least eighteen years of age at the time of the abortion,
unless the pregnancy resulted from the plaintiff's criminal conduct.
K.H.A civil action
filed pursuant to subsection J G of this section shall be
brought in the superior court in the county in which the woman on whom the
abortion was performed resides and may be based on a claim that failure to
obtain informed consent was a result of simple negligence, gross negligence,
wantonness, wilfulness, intention or any other legal standard of care. Relief
pursuant to subsection J G of this section includes
the following:
1.Money damages for all psychological, emotional
and physical injuries resulting from the violation of this section.
2.Statutory damages in an amount equal to five
thousand dollars or three times the cost of the abortion, whichever is greater.
3.Reasonable attorney fees and costs.
L.I.A civil action
brought pursuant to this section must be initiated within six years after the
violation occurred. END_STATUTE
Sec.20.Repeal
Sections 36-2156,
36-2157, 36-2158
and 36-2159, Arizona Revised Statutes, are
repealed.
Sec.21.Section
36-2161, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2161.Abortions; reporting requirements
A.A hospital or
facility in this state where abortions are performed must submit to the
department of health services on a form prescribed by the department a report
of each abortion performed in the hospital or facility. The report shall not
identify the individual patient by name but must include the following
information:
1.The name and address
of the facility where the abortion was performed.
2.The type of facility
where the abortion was performed.
3.The county where the
abortion was performed.
4.The woman's age.
5.The woman's
educational background by highest grade completed and, if applicable, level of
college completed.
6.The county and state
in which the woman resides.
7.The woman's race and
ethnicity.
8.The woman's marital
status.
9.The number of prior
pregnancies and prior abortions of the woman.
10.The number of
previous spontaneous terminations of pregnancy of the woman.
11.The gestational
age of the unborn child at the time of the abortion.
12.The reason for
the abortion, including whether the abortion is elective or due to maternal or
fetal health considerations.
13.The type of
procedure performed or prescribed and the date of the abortion.
14.Any preexisting
medical conditions of the woman that would complicate pregnancy and any known
medical complication that resulted from the abortion.
15.The basis for any
medical judgment that a medical emergency existed that excused the physician
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
16.The physician's
statement if required pursuant to section 362301.01.
17.If applicable,
the weight of the aborted fetus for any abortion performed pursuant to section
362301.01.
18.Whether
an infant was born alive during or immediately after an attempted abortion and
the efforts made to promote, preserve and maintain the life of the infant
pursuant to section 362301.
B.The report must be
signed by the physician who performed the abortion or, if a health professional
other than a physician is authorized by law to prescribe or administer abortion
medication, the signature and title of the person who prescribed or
administered the abortion medication.The form may be signed
electronically and shall indicate that the person who signs the report is
attesting that the information in the report is correct to the best of the
person's knowledge.The hospital or facility must transmit the
report to the department within fifteen days after the last day of each
reporting month.
C.Any report filed
pursuant to this section shall be filed electronically at an internet website
that is designated by the department unless the person required to file the
report applies for a waiver from electronic reporting by submitting a written
request to the department. END_STATUTE
Sec.22.Section
36-2163, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2163.Reports; confidentiality; annual statistical report;
violations; classification; unprofessional conduct
A.A report required by
this article shall not contain the name of the woman, common identifiers such
as the woman's social security number, driver license number or insurance
carrier identification numbers or any other information or identifiers that
would make it possible to identify in any manner or under any circumstances an
individual who has obtained or seeks to obtain an abortion.
B.The department of
health services shall collect all abortion reports and complication reports and
prepare a comprehensive annual statistical report based on the data gathered in
the reports.The statistical report shall not lead to the disclosure
of the identity of any person filing a report or about whom a report is filed.
The department shall make the statistical report available on its website and
for public inspection and copying.
C.The report prepared
by the department pursuant to subsection B of this section shall include
statistics from the administrative office of the courts containing the
following information:
1.The number of
petitions filed pursuant to section 362152, subsection B.
2.Of the petitions
filed pursuant to section 362152, subsection B, the number in which the
judge appointed a guardian ad litem or courtappointed counsel for the
minor pursuant to section 362152, subsectionD.
3.Of the petitions
filed pursuant to section 362152, subsection B, the number in which the
judge issued an order authorizing an abortion without parental consent.
4.Of the petitions
filed pursuant to section 362152, subsection B, the number in which the
judge issued an order denying the petition.
5.Of the petitions
denied, the number appealed to the court of appeals.
6.The number of those
appeals that resulted in the denials being affirmed.
7.The number of those
appeals that resulted in the denial being reversed.
D.Except for a
statistical report as provided in subsection B of this section, a report filed
pursuant to this article is not a public record and is not available for public
inspection, except that disclosure may be made to law enforcement officials on
an order of a court after application showing good cause. The court may
condition disclosure of the information on any appropriate safeguards it may
impose.
E.Original copies of
all reports filed pursuant to sections 362161 and 362162 shall be
available to the Arizona medical board and the Arizona board of osteopathic
examiners in medicine and surgery for use in the performance of their official
duties. The Arizona medical board and the Arizona board of osteopathic
examiners in medicine and surgery shall maintain the confidentiality of any
reports obtained pursuant to this subsection.
F.An employee, agent or
contractor of the department who wilfully discloses any information obtained
from reports filed pursuant to this article, other than disclosure authorized under
subsections B, D and E of this section or as otherwise authorized by law, is
guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor.
G.A person who is
required by this article to file a report, keep any records or supply any
information and who wilfully fails to file that report, keep records or supply
information as required by law is guilty of unprofessional conduct and is
subject to discipline, including license suspension or revocation.
H.A person who wilfully
delivers or discloses to the department any report, record or information known
by that person to be false commits a class 1 misdemeanor.
I.In addition to the
penalties prescribed by subsections F, G and H of this section, an organization
or facility that wilfully violates the reporting requirements of this article
is subject to discipline by the department, including the same civil penalties prescribed in section 36431.01 36126.If an
organization or facility that is licensed pursuant to chapter 4, article 10 of
this title wilfully violates the reporting requirements of this article, the
department may assess a civil penalty pursuant to section 36431.01,
impose an intermediate sanction pursuant to section 36427, suspend or
revoke a license pursuant to section 36427, deny a license or bring an
action for an injunction pursuant to section 36430. END_STATUTE
Sec.23.Repeal
Section 36-3604,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is repealed.
Sec.24.Section 43-1088, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE43-1088.Credit for contribution to qualifying
charitable organizations; definitions
A.Except as provided in
subsection B of this section, a credit is allowed against the taxes imposed by
this title for voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on the
taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401, subsection G during the
taxable year to a qualifying charitable organization not to exceed:
1.Two hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
B.If the voluntary cash
contribution by the taxpayer or on the taxpayer's behalf pursuant to section 43401,
subsection G is to a qualifying foster care charitable organization, the credit
shall not exceed:
1.Four hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a single individual or a head of household.
2.Eight hundred dollars
in any taxable year for a married couple filing a joint return.
C.A husband and wife
who file separate returns for a taxable year in which they could have filed a
joint return may each claim only onehalf of the tax credit that would
have been allowed for a joint return.
D.If the allowable tax
credit exceeds the taxes otherwise due under this title on the claimant's
income, or if there are no taxes due under this title, the taxpayer may carry
forward the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under this title
for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax liability.
E.The credit allowed by
this section is in lieu of a deduction pursuant to section 170 of the internal
revenue code and taken for state tax purposes.
F.Taxpayers taking a
credit authorized by this section shall provide the name of the qualifying
charitable organization and the amount of the contribution to the department of
revenue on forms provided by the department.
G.A qualifying
charitable organization shall provide the department of revenue with a written
certification that it meets all criteria to be considered a qualifying
charitable organization.The organization shall also notify the
department of any changes that may affect the qualifications under this
section.
H.The charitable
organization's written certification must be signed by an officer of the
organization under penalty of perjury. The written certification must include
the following:
1.Verification of the
organization's status under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code or
verification that the organization is a designated community action agency that
receives community services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United
States Code section 9901.
2.Financial data
indicating the organization's budget for the organization's prior operating
year and the amount of that budget spent on services to residents of this state
who either:
(a)Receive temporary
assistance for needy families benefits.
(b)Are lowincome
residents of this state.
(c)Are children who
have a chronic illness or physical disability.
3.A statement that the
organization plans to continue spending at least fifty percent of its budget on
services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance for needy
families benefits, who are lowincome residents of this state or who are
children who have a chronic illness or physical disability.
4.A
statement that the organization does not provide, pay for or provide coverage
of abortions and does not financially support any other entity that provides,
pays for or provides coverage of abortions.
I.The department shall
review each written certification and determine whether the organization meets
all the criteria to be considered a qualifying charitable organization and
notify the organization of its determination.The department may
also periodically request recertification from the organization.The
department shall compile and make available to the public a list of the
qualifying charitable organizations.
J.For the purposes of
this section:
1."Children who have
a chronic illness or physical disability" has the same meaning prescribed
in section 36260.
2."Lowincome
residents" means persons whose household income is less than one hundred
fifty percent of the federal poverty level.
3."Qualifying
charitable organization" means a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code or is a designated community action agency that receives community
services block grant program monies pursuant to 42 United States Code section
9901.The organization must spend at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to residents of this state who receive temporary assistance
for needy families benefits or lowincome residents of this state and
their households or to children who have a chronic illness or physical
disability who are residents of this state. Taxpayers choosing to make
donations through an umbrella charitable organization that collects donations
on behalf of member charities shall designate that the donation be directed to
a member charitable organization that would qualify under this section on a
standalone basis.Qualifying
charitable organization does not include any entity that provides, pays for or
provides coverage of abortions or that financially supports any other entity
that provides, pays for or provides coverage of abortions.
4."Qualifying
foster care charitable organization" means a qualifying charitable
organization that each operating year provides services to at least two hundred
qualified individuals in this state and spends at least fifty percent of its
budget on services to qualified individuals in this state. For the purposes of
this paragraph, "qualified individual" means a foster child as
defined in section 8501 or a person who is under twentyone years
of age and who is participating in a transitional independent living program as
prescribed by section 8521.01.
5."Services"
means cash assistance, medical care, child care, food, clothing, shelter, job
placement and job training services or any other assistance that is reasonably
necessary to meet immediate basic needs and that is provided and used in this
state. END_STATUTE
Sec.25.Repeal
Laws 2011, chapter 9, sections 3,
4, 5 and 6, Laws 2011, chapter 10, sections 7, 8 and 9, Laws 2011, chapter 55,
section 3, Laws 2012, chapter 250, sections 9, 10, 11 and 12, Laws 2012,
chapter 288, sections 2 and 3, Laws 2012, chapter 337, section 6 and Laws 2014,
chapter 33, section 5 are repealed.
Sec.26.Short title
This act may be cited as the
"Women's Health Restoration Act".

