







REFERENCE TITLE: electronic legal material.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1414









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs, Worsley; Representative Brophy McGee: Senators Begay, Dial;
  Representative Carter





AN ACT

amending title
41, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 53; relating to legal
materials.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 41, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 53, to read:
CHAPTER 53
UNIFORM ELECTRONIC LEGAL MATERIAL ACT
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE415301.Short title 
This article may be
cited as the "Uniform Electronic Legal Material Act". END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5302.Definitions
In this
article, unless the context otherwise requires:
1."Electronic"
means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless,
optical, electromagnetic or similar capabilities.
2."Legal
material" means, whether or not in effect:
(a)The Constitution of
Arizona. 
(b)The Arizona session
laws. 
(c)The Arizona Revised
Statutes.
(d)The Arizona
administrative code.
(e)rules or policies that are exempt
from the rulemaking requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
(f)Decisions of an
administrative agency of this state. 
(g)The Arizona supreme
court opinions. 
(h)The Arizona Rules of
Court.
(i)Minute entries of the superior
court of each county.
3."Official
publisher" means:
(a)For the Constitution
of Arizona, the Arizona Legislative council. 
(b)For the Arizona
session laws, the Arizona legislative council.
(c)For the Arizona
Revised Statutes, the Arizona legislative council.
(d)For the Arizona
administrative code, the Secretary of State.
(e)For rules or policies
that are exempt from the rulemaking requirements of chapter 6 of this title,
the state agency adopting the rules or policies.
(f)For decisions of an
administrative agency of this state, the appropriate agency or state official. 
(g)For the Arizona supreme court opinions, The Arizona supreme court. 
(h)For the Arizona Rules
of Court, the Arizona supreme court.
(i)For minute entries of the
superior court of each county, the clerk of the superior court for the
appropriate county.
4."Publish"
means to display, present or release to the public, or cause to be displayed,
presented or released to the public, by the official publisher.
5."Record"
means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in
an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
6."State" means a state of
the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States
Virgin Islands or any territory or insular possession subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5303.Applicability
This article applies to
all legal material in an electronic record that is designated as official under
section 415304 and first published electronically on or after the
effective date of this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5304.Legal material in official electronic record
A.If an official publisher publishes
legal material only in an electronic record, the publisher shall: 
1.Designate
the electronic record as official.
2.Comply
with sections 415305, 415307 and 415308.
B.An
official publisher that publishes legal material in an electronic record and
also publishes the material in a record other than an electronic record may
designate the electronic record as official if the publisher complies with
sections 415305, 415307 and 415308. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5305.Authentication of offical electronic record
An official publisher
of legal material in an electronic record that is designated as official under
section 415304 shall authenticate the record. To authenticate an
electronic record, the publisher shall provide a method for a user to determine
that the record received by the user from the publisher is unaltered from the
official record published by the publisher. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5306.Effect of authentication
A.Legal
material in an electronic record that is authenticated under section 415305
is presumed to be an accurate copy of the legal material.
B.If
another state has adopted a law substantially similar to this article, legal
material in an electronic record that is designated as official and
authenticated by the official publisher in that state is presumed to be an
accurate copy of the legal material. 
C.A
party contesting the authentication of legal material in an electronic record
authenticated under section 415305 has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the record is not authentic. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5307.Preservation and security of legal materials in official
electronic record
A.An official publisher of legal
material in an electronic record that is or was designated as official under
section 415304 shall provide for the preservation and security of the
record in an electronic form or a form that is not electronic. 
B.If
legal material is preserved under subsection A of this section in an electronic
record, the official publisher shall:
1.Ensure
the integrity of the record.
2.Provide
for backup and disaster recovery of the record.
3.Ensure
the continuing usability of the material. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5308.Public access to legal material in official electronic
record
An official publisher of legal material in an
electronic record that is required to be preserved under section 415307
shall ensure that the material is reasonably available for use by the public on
a permanent basis.
END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5309.Standards
In
implementing this article, an official publisher of legal material in an
electronic record shall consider:
1.Standards
and practices of other jurisdictions.
2.The
most recent standards regarding authentication of, preservation and security of
and public access to legal material in an electronic record and other
electronic records, as promulgated by national standard-setting bodies.
3.The
needs of users of legal material in an electronic record.
4.The
views of governmental officials and entities and other interested persons.
5.To
the extent practicable, methods and technologies for the authentication of,
preservation and security of and public access to legal material that are
compatible with the methods and technologies used by other official publishers
in this state and in other states that have adopted a law substantially similar
to this article. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5310.Uniformity of application and construction
In applying
and construing this uniform act, consideration must be given to the need to
promote uniformity of the law with respect to its subject matter among states
that enact it. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE41-5311.Relation to electronic signatures in global and national
commerce act
This article modifies, limits and supersedes the electronic signatures in
global and national commerce act (15 United States Code section 7001 et seq.)
but does not modify, limit or supersede section 101(c) of the electronic signatures in global and
national commerce act (15 United States Code section 7001(c)), or authorize electronic delivery of any
of the notices described in section 103(b) of the electronic signatures in global and national
commerce act (15 United States Code section 7003(b)). END_STATUTE

