







REFERENCE TITLE: fiduciary access to digital assets.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1413









Introduced by
Senators
  Driggs, Worsley; Representative Brophy McGee: Senators Begay, Shooter;
  Representative Carter





AN ACT

amending Title
14, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding chapter 13; relating to fiduciary
access to electronic records.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Title 14, Arizona Revised Statutes,
is amended by adding chapter 13, to read:
CHAPTER 13
REVISED UNIFORM FIDUCIARY ACCESS TO DIGITAL ASSETS ACT
ARTICLE 1.GENERAL PROVISIONS
START_STATUTE14-13101.Short title
This chapter may be
cited as the revised uniform fiduciary access to digital assets act. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13102.Definitions
In this chapter, unless
the context otherwise requires:
1."Account"
means an arrangement under a terms-of-service agreement in which a custodian
carries, maintains, processes, receives or stores a digital asset of the user
or provides goods or services to the user.
2."Agent"
means an attorney-in-fact granted authority under a durable or nondurable power
of attorney.
3."Carries"
means engages in the transmission of an electronic communication.
4."Catalogue
of electronic communications" means information that identifies each
person with which a user has had an electronic communication, the time and date
of the communication and the electronic address of the person.
5."Conservator"
means a person appointed by a court to manage the estate of a living individual
and includes a limited conservator.
6."Content
of an electronic communication" means information concerning the substance
or meaning of the communication that meets all of the following requirements:
(a)Has been sent or received by a
user.
(b)Is in electronic storage by a custodian
providing an electroniccommunication service to the public or is carried
or maintained by a custodian providing a remote-computing service to the
public.
(c)Is not readily accessible to the
public.
7."Court"
means the superior court.
8."Custodian"
means a person that carries, maintains, processes, receives or stores a digital
asset of a user.
9."Designated
recipient" means a person chosen by a user using an online tool to
administer digital assets of the user.
10."Digital
asset" means an electronic record in which an individual has a right or
interest. Digital asset does not include an underlying asset or liability
unless the asset or liability is itself an electronic record.
11."Electronic"
means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless,
optical, electromagnetic or similar capabilities.
12."Electronic
communication" has the same meaning prescribed in 18 United States Code
section 2510(12).
13."Electronic-communication
service" means a custodian that provides to a user the ability to send or
receive an electronic communication.
14."Fiduciary"
means an original, additional or successor personal representative,
conservator, agent or trustee.
15."Information"
means data, text, images, videos, sounds, codes, computer programs, software,
databases or the like.
16."Online
tool" means an electronic service provided by a custodian that allows the
user, in an agreement distinct from the terms-of-service agreement between the
custodian and user, to provide directions for disclosure or nondisclosure of
digital assets to a third person.
17."Person"
means an individual, an estate, a business or nonprofit entity, a public
corporation, a government or governmental subdivision, agency or
instrumentality or any other legal entity.
18."Personal
representative" means an executor, an administrator, a special
administrator or person that performs substantially the same function under law
of this state other than this chapter.
19."Power
of attorney" means a record that grants an agent authority to act in the
place of a principal.
20."Principal"
means an individual who grants authority to an agent in a power of attorney.
21."Protected
person" means an individual for whom a conservator has been appointed.
Protected person includes an individual for whom an application for the
appointment of a conservator is pending.
22."Record"
means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in
an electronic or other medium and that is retrievable in perceivable form.
23."Remote-computing
service" means a custodian that provides to a user computer-processing
services or the storage of digital assets by means of an electronic
communications system, as defined in 18 United States Code section 2510(14).
24."Terms-of-service
agreement" means an agreement that controls the relationship between a
user and a custodian.
25."Trustee"
means a fiduciary with legal title to property under an agreement or
declaration that creates a beneficial interest in another. Trustee includes a
successor trustee.
26."User"
means a person that has an account with a custodian.
27."Will"
includes a codicil, testamentary instrument that only appoints an executor and
instrument that revokes or revises a testamentary instrument. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13103.Applicability
A.This
chapter applies to all of the following:
1.A
fiduciary acting under a will or power of attorney executed before, on or after
the effective date of this chapter.
2.A
personal representative acting for a decedent who died before, on or after the
effective date of this chapter.
3.A
conservatorship proceeding commenced before, on or after the effective date of
this chapter.
4.a
trustee acting under a trust created before, on or after the effective date of
this chapter.
b.This
chapter applies to a custodian if the user resides in this state or resided in
this state at the time of the user's death.
c.This
chapter does not apply to a digital asset of an employer used by an employee in
the ordinary course of the employer's business. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13104.User direction for disclosure of digital assets
A.A user
may use an online tool to direct the custodian to disclose or not to disclose
some or all of the user's digital assets, including the content of electronic
communications. If the online tool allows the user to modify or delete a
direction at all times, a direction regarding disclosure using an online tool
overrides a contrary direction by the user in a will, trust, power of attorney
or other record.
B.If a user
has not used an online tool to give direction under subsection A of this
section or if the custodian has not provided an online tool, the user may allow
or prohibit in a will, trust, power of attorney or other record disclosure to a
fiduciary of some or all of the user's digital assets, including the content of
electronic communications sent or received by the user.
C.A user's
direction under subsection A or B of this section overrides a contrary
provision in a terms-of-service agreement that does not require the user to act
affirmatively and distinctly from the user's assent to the terms of service. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13105.Terms-of-service agreement
A.This
Chapter does not change or impair a right of a custodian or a user under a
terms-of-service agreement to access and use digital assets of the user.
B.This
chapter does not give a fiduciary any new or expanded rights other than those
held by the user for whom, or for whose estate, the fiduciary acts or represents.
C.A
fiduciary's access to digital assets may be modified or eliminated by a user,
by federal law or by a terms-of-service agreement if the user has not provided
direction under section 1413104. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13106.Procedure for disclosing digital assets
A.When
disclosing digital assets of a user under this chapter, the custodian may do,
at its sole discretion, any of the following:
1.Grant a
fiduciary or designated recipient full access to the user's account.
2.Grant a
fiduciary or designated recipient partial access to the user's account
sufficient to perform the tasks with which the fiduciary or designated
recipient is charged.
3.Provide a
fiduciary or designated recipient a copy in a record of any digital asset that,
on the date the custodian received the request for disclosure, the user could
have accessed if the user were alive and had full capacity and access to the
account.
B.A custodian
may assess a reasonable administrative charge for the cost of disclosing
digital assets under this chapter.
C.A
custodian need not disclose under this chapter a digital asset deleted by a
user.
D.If a user
directs or a fiduciary requests a custodian to disclose under this chapter
some, but not all, of the user's digital assets, the custodian need not
disclose the assets if segregation of the assets would impose an undue burden
on the custodian. If the custodian believes the direction or request imposes
an undue burden, the custodian or fiduciary may seek an order from the court to
disclose any of the following:
1.A subset
limited by date of the user's digital assets.
2.All of
the user's digital assets to the fiduciary or designated recipient.
3.None of
the user's digital assets.
4.All of
the user's digital assets to the court for review in camera. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13107.Disclosure of content of electronic communications of
deceased user
A.If a
deceased user consented or a court directs disclosure of the contents of
electronic communications of the user, the custodian shall disclose to the
personal representative of the estate of the user the content of an electronic
communication sent or received by the user if the representative gives the
custodian all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.A
certified copy of the death certificate of the user.
3.A
certified copy of the letters testamentary, a small-estate affidavit or a court
order.
4.Unless
the user provided direction using an online tool, a copy of the user's will,
trust, power of attorney or other record evidencing the user's consent to
disclosure of the content of electronic communications.
5.If
requested by the custodian, any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the user's account. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the user.
(c)A finding by the court of one or
more of the following: 
(i)The user had a specific account
with the custodian, identifiable by the information specified in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(ii)Disclosure of the content of
electronic communications of the user would not violate 18 United States Code
sections 2701 through 2712, 47United States Code section 222 or other
applicable law. 
(iii)Unless the user provided
direction using an online tool, the user consented to disclosure of the content
of electronic communications. 
(iv)Disclosure of the content of
electronic communications of the user is reasonably necessary for
administration of the estate. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13108.Disclosure of other digital assets of deceased user
Unless the user
prohibited disclosure of digital assets or the court directs otherwise, a
custodian shall disclose to the personal representative of the estate of a
deceased user a catalogue of electronic communications sent or received by the
user and digital assets, other than the content of electronic communications,
of the user, if the representative gives the custodian all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.A
certified copy of the death certificate of the user.
3.A
certified copy of the letters testamentary, a small-estate affidavit or a court
order.
4.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the user's account. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the user. 
(c)An affidavit stating that
disclosure of the user's digital assets is reasonably necessary for
administration of the estate. 
(d)A finding by the court of either
of the following:
(i)The user had a specific account
with the custodian, identifiable by the information specified in subdivision (a) of this paragraph.
(ii)Disclosure
of the content of electronic communications of the user is reasonably necessary
for administration of the estate. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13109.Disclosure of content of electronic communications of
principal
To the extent a power
of attorney expressly grants an agent authority over the content of electronic
communications sent or received by the principal and unless directed otherwise
by the principal or the court, a custodian shall disclose to the agent the
content if the agent gives the custodian all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.An
original or copy of the power of attorney expressly granting the agent
authority over the content of electronic communications of the principal.
3.A
certification by the agent, under penalty of perjury, that the power of
attorney is in effect.
4.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the principal's account. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the principal. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13110.Disclosure of other digital assets of principal
Unless otherwise
ordered by the court, directed by the principal or provided by a power of
attorney, a custodian shall disclose to an agent with specific authority over
digital assets or general authority to act on behalf of a principal a catalogue
of electronic communications sent or received by the principal and digital
assets, other than the content of electronic communications, of the principal
if the agent gives the custodian all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.An
original or a copy of the power of attorney that gives the agent specific
authority over digital assets or general authority to act on behalf of the
principal.
3.A
certification by the agent, under penalty of perjury, that the power of
attorney is in effect.
4.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the principal's account.
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the principal. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13111.Disclosure of digital assets held in trust when trustee is
original user
Unless otherwise
ordered by the court or provided in a trust, a custodian shall disclose to a
trustee that is an original user of an account any digital asset of the account
held in trust, including a catalogue of electronic communications of the
trustee and the content of electronic communications. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13112.Disclosure of contents of electronic communications held
in trust when trustee is not original user
Unless otherwise
ordered by the court, directed by the user or provided in a trust, a custodian
shall disclose to a trustee that is not an original user of an account the
content of an electronic communication sent or received by an original or
successor user and carried, maintained, processed, received or stored by the
custodian in the account of the trust, if the trustee gives the custodian all of
the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.A
certified copy of the trust instrument or a certification of the trust under
section 1411013 that includes consent to disclosure of the content of
electronic communications to the trustee.
3.A
certification by the trustee, under penalty of perjury, that the trust exists
and the trustee is a currently acting trustee of the trust.
4.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the trust's account.
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the trust. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13113.Disclosure of other digital assets held in trust when
trustee is not original user
Unless otherwise
ordered by the court, directed by the user or provided in a trust, a custodian
shall disclose to a trustee that is not an original user of an account a
catalogue of electronic communications sent or received by an original or
successor user and stored, carried or maintained by the custodian in an account
of the trust and any digital assets, other than the content of electronic communications,
in which the trust has a right or interest if the trustee gives the custodian
all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.A
certified copy of the trust instrument or a certification of the trust under
section 1411013.
3.A
certification by the trustee, under penalty of perjury, that the trust exists
and the trustee is a currently acting trustee of the trust.
4.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the trust's account. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the trust. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13114.Disclosure of digital assets to conservator of protected
person
A.After an
opportunity for a hearing under chapter 5, article 4 of this title, the court
may grant a conservator access to the digital assets of a protected person.
B.Unless
otherwise ordered by the court or directed by the user, a custodian shall
disclose to a conservator the catalogue of electronic communications sent or
received by a protected person and any digital assets, other than the content
of electronic communications, in which the protected person has a right or
interest if the conservator gives the custodian all of the following:
1.A written
request for disclosure in physical or electronic form.
2.A
certified copy of the court order that gives the conservator authority over the
digital assets of the protected person.
3.If
requested by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the account of the protected person. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the trust. 
C.A
conservator with general authority to manage the assets of a protected person
may request a custodian of the digital assets of the protected person to
suspend or terminate an account of the protected person for good cause. A
request made under this subsection must be accompanied by a certified copy of
the court order giving the conservator authority over the protected person's
property. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13115.Fiduciary duty and authority
A.The legal
duties imposed on a fiduciary charged with managing tangible property apply to
the management of digital assets, including all of the following, if
applicable:
1.The duty
of care.
2.The duty
of loyalty.
3.The duty
of confidentiality.
B.A
fiduciary's authority with respect to a digital asset of a user:
1.Except as
otherwise provided in section 1413104, is subject to the applicable
terms of service.
2.Is
subject to other applicable law, including copyright law.
3.Is
limited by the scope of the fiduciary's duties.
4.May not
be used to impersonate the user.
C.A
fiduciary with authority over the property of a decedent, protected person,
principal or settlor has the right to access any digital asset in which the
decedent, protected person, principal or settlor had a right or interest and
that is not held by a custodian or subject to a termsofservice
agreement.
D.A
fiduciary acting within the scope of the fiduciary's duties is an authorized
user of the property of the decedent, protected person, principal or settlor
for the purpose of applicable computer-fraud and unauthorizedcomputer-access
laws, including section 132316.
E.A
fiduciary with authority over the tangible, personal property of a decedent,
protected person, principal or settlor:
1.Has the
right to access the property and any digital asset stored in it.
2.Is an
authorized user for the purpose of computer-fraud and
unauthorized-computer-access laws, including section 132316.
F.A
custodian may disclose information in an account to a fiduciary of the user
when the information is required to terminate an account used to access digital
assets licensed to the user.
G.A
fiduciary of a user may request a custodian to terminate the user's
account.A request for termination must be in writing, in either
physical or electronic form, and accompanied by all of the following:
1.If the
user is deceased, a certified copy of the death certificate of the user.
2.A
certified copy of the letters testamentary of the representative, small-estate
affidavit, court order, power of attorney or trust giving the fiduciary
authority over the account.
3.If requested
by the custodian any of the following:
(a)A number, username, address or
other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to
identify the user's account. 
(b)Evidence linking the account to
the user.
(c)A finding by the court that the
user had a specific account with the custodian, identifiable by the information
specified in subdivision (a) of this paragraph. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13116.Custodian compliance and immunity
A.Not later
than sixty days after receipt of the information required under section 1413107,
1413108, 1413109, 1413110, 1413111, 1413112,
1413113, 1413114 or 14-13115, a custodian shall comply with a
request under this chapter from a fiduciary or designated recipient to disclose
digital assets or terminate an account. If the custodian fails to comply, the
fiduciary or designated recipient may apply to the court for an order directing
compliance.
B.An order
under subsection A of this section directing compliance must contain a finding
that compliance is not in violation of 18 United States Code section 2702.
C.A
custodian may notify the user that a request for disclosure or to terminate an
account was made under this chapter.
D.A
custodian may deny a request under this chapter from a fiduciary or designated
recipient for disclosure of digital assets or to terminate an account if the
custodian is aware of any lawful access to the account following the receipt of
the fiduciary's request.
E.This
chapter does not limit a custodian's ability to obtain or require a fiduciary
or designated recipient requesting disclosure or termination under this chapter
to obtain a court order that does any of the following:
1.Specifies
that an account belongs to the protected person or principal.
2.Specifies
that there is sufficient consent from the protected person or principal to
support the requested disclosure.
3.Contains
a finding required by law other than this chapter.
F.A
custodian and its officers, employees and agents are immune from liability for
an act or omission done in good faith in compliance with this chapter. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13117.Uniformity of application and construction
In applying
and construing this uniform act, consideration must be given to the need to
promote uniformity of the law with respect to its subject matter among states
that enact it. END_STATUTE
START_STATUTE14-13118.Relation to electronic signatures in global and national
commerce act
This chapter modifies,
limits and supersedes the electronic signatures in global and national commerce
act, 15 United States Code sections 7001 through 7031, but does not modify,
limit or supersede 15 United States Code section 7001(c) or authorize electronic delivery of any of
the notices described in 15 United States Code section 7003(b). END_STATUTE

