







REFERENCE TITLE: mental health services; information
  disclosure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1442









Introduced by
Senator
  Barto





AN ACT

Amending section
36509, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to mental health services.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-509, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-509.Confidential records; immunity
A.A health care entity must keep records and
information contained in records confidential and not as public records, except
as provided in this section.Records and information contained in
records may only be disclosed to:
1.Physicians and providers of health, mental health
or social and welfare services involved in caring for, treating or
rehabilitating the patient.
2.Individuals to whom the patient or the patient's
health care decision maker has given authorization to have information
disclosed.
3.Persons authorized by a court order.
4.Persons doing research only if the activity is
conducted pursuant to applicable federal or state laws and regulations
governing research.
5.The state department of corrections in cases in
which prisoners confined to the state prison are patients in the state hospital
on authorized transfers either by voluntary admission or by order of the court.
6.Governmental or law enforcement agencies if
necessary to:
(a)Secure the return of a patient who is on
unauthorized absence from any agency where the patient was undergoing
evaluation and treatment.
(b)Report a crime on the premises.
(c)Avert a serious and imminent threat to an
individual or the public.
7.Persons, including family members, actively participating friends or others involved in the patient's
care, treatment or supervision.A health care provider may only release information relating
to the patient's diagnosis, prognosis, need for hospitalization, anticipated
length of stay, discharge plan, medication, medication side effects and shortterm
and longterm treatment goals.A health care provider may make
this release only after the treating professional or that person's designee
interviews the patient or the patient's health care decision maker and the
patient or the patient's health care decision maker does not object, unless
federal or state law permits the disclosure.If the patient does not
have the opportunity to object to the disclosure because of incapacity or an
emergency circumstance and the patient's health care decision maker is not
available to object to the release, the health care provider in the exercise of
professional judgment may determine if the disclosure is in the best interests
of the patient and, if so, may release the information authorized pursuant to
this paragraph.A decision to release or withhold information is
subject to review pursuant to section 36517.01.The health
care provider must record the name of any person to whom any information is
given under this paragraph. A release of information under this paragraph must meet the requirements
prescribed in subsection B of this section and does not include information
related to substance abuse treatment records or psychotherapy notes.
8.A state agency that licenses health professionals
pursuant to title 32, chapter 13, 15, 17, 19.1 or 33 and that requires these
records in the course of investigating complaints of professional negligence,
incompetence or lack of clinical judgment.
9.A state or federal agency that licenses health
care providers.
10.A governmental agency or a competent
professional, as defined in section 363701, in order to comply with
chapter 37 of this title.
11.Human rights committees established pursuant to
title 41, chapter35. Any information released pursuant to this paragraph
shall comply with the requirements of section 413804 and applicable
federal law and shall be released without personally identifiable information
unless the personally identifiable information is required for the official
purposes of the human rights committee.Case information received by
a human rights committee shall be maintained as confidential.For
the purposes of this paragraph, "personally identifiable information"
includes a person's name, address, date of birth, social security number,
tribal enrollment number, telephone or telefacsimile number, driver license
number, places of employment, school identification number and military
identification number or any other distinguishing characteristic that tends to
identify a particular person.
12.A patient or the patient's health care decision
maker pursuant to section 36507.
13.The department of public safety or another law
enforcement agency by the court to comply with the requirements of section 36540,
subsections O and P.
14.A third
party thirdparty
payor or the payor's contractor as permitted by the health insurance
portability and accountability act privacy standards, 45 Code of Federal
Regulations part 160 and part 164, subpart E.
15.A private entity that accredits the health care
provider and with whom the health care provider has an agreement requiring the
agency to protect the confidentiality of patient information.
16.The legal representative of a health care entity
in possession of the record for the purpose of securing legal advice.
17.A person or entity as otherwise required by
state or federal law.
18.A person or entity as permitted by the federal
regulations on alcohol and drug abuse treatment (42 Code of Federal Regulations
part 2).
19.A person or entity to conduct utilization
review, peer review and quality assurance pursuant to section 36441, 36445,
362402 or 362917.
20.A person maintaining health statistics for
public health purposes as authorized by law.
21.A grand jury as directed by subpoena.
22.A person or entity that provides services to the
patient's health care provider, as defined in section 122291, and with
whom the health care provider has a business associate agreement that requires
the person or entity to protect the confidentiality of patient information as
required by the health insurance portability and accountability act privacy
standards, 45 Code of Federal Regulations part 164, subpart E.
B.The
requirements for the release of information by a health care provider or health
care entity pursuant to subsection A, paragraph 7 of this section are as
follows:
1.If it is
determined that the patient is capable of agreeing to the sharing of the
information and if, after the health care provider discusses the requested
release with the patient, the patient consents, the information shall be
released.
2.If the
patient is determined to be capable of agreeing but is unable to communicate
consent, or if the patient has been given the opportunity to object and does
not express an objection, the treating health care provider, based on
professional judgment, may infer from the circumstances that the patient does
not object to the disclosure and shall record the circumstances relied on to
make this inference in the patient's medical record.
3.If the
patient has a health care decision maker who provides documentation of that
person's authority to act as a health care decision maker, the health care
provider or health care entity may rely on the consent of the health care
decision maker. The health care provider or health care entity may rely on the
documentation provided by the health care decision maker unless there is a
reason to believe the authority is not valid or has been revoked.
4.If the
patient is not present or if the opportunity to agree or object to the use or
disclosure of information cannot practicably be provided because of the
patient's incapacity or an emergency circumstance, the health care provider or
health care entity may release the information requested if the provider or
entity determines that the release of the requested information is in the best
interest of the patient and, if so, shall disclose only the protected
information that is directly relevant to the persons involvement with the
patient's health care.In determining whether the release of
information is in the best interest of the patient, the health care provider or
health care entity shall consider both of the following:
(a)The patient's medical and
treatment history, including the patient's history of compliance or
noncompliance with an established treatment plan based on information in the
patient's medical records and on reliable and relevant information received
from the patient's family members, friends or others involved in the patient's
care, treatment and supervision. If a family member, friend or caregiver is
available, the health care provider or health care entity, if possible, shall
include any information offered by the family, friend or caregiver before
providing treatment. 
(b)Whether the information is
necessary or, based on professional judgment, would be useful in assisting the
patient in complying with the care, treatment or supervision prescribed in the
patient's treatment plan.
5.The
information shall be released if permitted or required by federal or state law.
6.A health
care provider or health care entity shall keep a record of the name and contact
information of any person to whom any patient information is released.
7.A health
care provider or health care entity shall inform any individual, including the
patient, who is affected by the decision to release or withhold information of
the right to have the decision reviewed pursuant to section 36517.01.
B.C.Information
and records obtained in the course of evaluation, examination or treatment and
submitted in any court proceeding pursuant to this chapter or title 14, chapter
5 are confidential and are not public records unless the hearing requirements
of this chapter or title 14, chapter 5 require a different procedure.
Information and records that are obtained pursuant to this section and
submitted in a court proceeding pursuant to title 14, chapter 5 and that are
not clearly identified by the parties as confidential and segregated from
nonconfidential information and records are considered public records. 
C.d.Notwithstanding
subsections A, and B and C of this section, the legal
representative of a patient who is the subject of a proceeding conducted
pursuant to this chapter and title 14, chapter 5 has access to the patient's
information and records in the possession of a health care entity or filed with
the court.
D.E.A
health care entity that acts in good faith under this article is not liable for
damages in any civil action for the disclosure of records or payment records
that is made pursuant to this article or as otherwise provided by
law.The health care entity is presumed to have acted in good
faith.This presumption may be rebutted by clear and convincing
evidence. END_STATUTE

