







REFERENCE TITLE: Arizona community schools pilot program







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1462









Introduced by
Senators
  Bradley, Begay: Pancrazi





AN ACT

establishing the
Arizona community schools pilot program.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Arizona community schools pilot program; requirements;
grants; coordinator; tax credit; delayed repeal; definitions
A.A threeyear Arizona community schools
pilot program is established in the governor's office to assist public middle
schools and junior high schools in developing community school plans and
participating in the pilot program.
B.From monies donated for this purpose, the
governor's office shall award three-year grants to eligible schools. Each
grant may not exceed the sum of:
1.Sixty thousand dollars each academic year to pay
the salary and benefits of a full-time community school coordinator.
2.Twentyfive thousand dollars each academic
year to develop and implement a community school plan.
C.On application from a school, a grant awarded
under this section may be extended by the governor for an additional year.
D.A public middle school or junior high school is
eligible to apply for a grant under this section if the school demonstrates a
commitment to both:
1.Participating in the pilot program by
establishing both:
(a)A schoolcommunity partnership team to
function as the campuslevel planning and decision-making committee
composed of school officials and community representatives.
(b)A partnership with a community-based
organization, a social service provider or an education or youth services
organization, that has experience in developing and implementing a community
school plan.
2.Developing and implementing a plan for sustaining
the community school plan beyond the end of the pilot program.
E.Grants distributed under this section may not be
used for direct programs for students or families or for other activities that
are not related to developing or implementing a community school plan.
F.Each school that participates in the pilot
program shall hire a new employee or designate an existing employee to serve as
the community school coordinator for that school. A community school
coordinator who is compensated with grant monies issued pursuant to this
section must have relevant experience as a school district employee, a charter
school employee or an employee of a community-based organization with
experience in developing and implementing a community school plan and in
coordinating the process of developing and implementing such a plan. The
coordinator's duties include:
1.Recruiting community partners and building
community support for the school.
2.Coordinating all
of the following:
(a)The school
community partnership team's planning and training activities.
(b)Planning and evaluation efforts between the
school and community partners.
(c)Academic and student and family support programs.
(d)After-school, summer and enrichment programs for
students.
3.Encouraging community and parent engagement in
the school.
4.Seeking available resources for implementing
community school programs and services.
5.Conducting an annual needs assessment of the
school in coordination with the school-community partnership team.
6.Acting as a liaison between the school, other
community schools, the school district or the charter school and community
partners.
7.Developing a plan for sustaining the community
school plan beyond the end of the pilot program.
G.Before a community school plan may be
implemented, the plan and the application to participate in the pilot program
must be approved by the school district governing board or the charter school
governing body.
H.In developing or implementing a community school
plan, a school that participates in the pilot program may seek assistance from
other community schools, regional education service centers or technical
assistance providers.
I.A school that is selected to participate in the
pilot program shall both:
1.Hold a community meeting at least twice each year
to both:
(a)Inform community stakeholders about the school's
progress in implementing the community school plan.
(b)Seek community input regarding any improvements
or changes that could be made to the community school plan.
2.Annually report to the school district governing
board or the charter school governing body regarding the school's progress in
implementing the plan.
J.The governor's office shall select a thirdparty
organization to solicit and accept monies to fund the pilot program and to
coordinate with the governor's office for the disbursement of these monies.
The thirdparty organization and schools that are selected to participate
in the pilot program may seek and accept gifts, grants, donations and monies
from federal, state and private sources for purposes related to the pilot
program.
K.For taxable years 2016, 2017 and 2018, a credit
is allowed against the taxes imposed by title 43, Arizona Revised Statutes, for
the amount of voluntary cash contributions by the taxpayer or on the taxpayer's
behalf during the taxable year to the governor's office or to the thirdparty
organization selected by the governor's office for the purpose of funding the
pilot program. The amount of the credit shall not exceed fifty thousand
dollars in any taxable year. If the allowable tax credit exceeds the taxes
otherwise due under title 43, Arizona Revised Statutes, on the claimant's income,
or if there are no taxes due under title 43, Arizona Revised Statutes, the
taxpayer may carry the amount of the claim not used to offset the taxes under
this title forward for not more than five consecutive taxable years' income tax
liability. The credit allowed by this subsection is in lieu of any deduction
pursuant to section 170 of the internal revenue code and taken for state tax
purposes.
L.This section is repealed from and after December
31, 2019.
M.For the purposes of this section:
1."Community-based organization" means a
nonprofit corporation or association that is located in close proximity to the
population the organization serves and that supports the academic success of
students through the provision of health care, mentoring, college readiness
programs or job training.
2."Community school" means a public
middle school or junior high school that partners with one or more
community-based organizations to coordinate academic, social and health
services to reduce barriers to learning and improve the quality of education
for students in the community and that offers a variety of programs and
services that may include one or more of the following:
(a)Early childhood education.
(b)After-school and summer school academic and
enrichment programs.
(c)College and career preparation.
(d)Service learning opportunities, such as
internships and community service programs.
(e)Leadership and mentoring programs.
(f)Activities to encourage community and parent
engagement in students' education.
(g)Parenting classes and health and social
services, including services provided by licensed social workers, for students
and families.

