







REFERENCE TITLE: early ballots; collection; receipt







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1519









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





AN ACT

amending section
16-548, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to early voting.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-548, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-548.Preparation and transmission of ballot; receipt;
exceptions
A.The early voter shall make and sign the affidavit
and shall then mark his ballot in such a manner that his vote cannot be seen.
The early voter shall fold the ballot, if a paper ballot, so as to conceal the
vote and deposit the voted ballot in the envelope provided for that purpose,
which shall be securely sealed and, together with the affidavit, delivered or
mailed to the county recorder or other officer in charge of elections of the
political subdivision in which the elector is registered or deposited by the
voter or the voter's agent at any polling place in the county. In order to be
counted and valid, the ballot must be received by the county recorder or other
officer in charge of elections or deposited at any polling place in the county
no later than 7:00 p.m. on election day.
B.If the early voter is an overseas citizen, a
qualified elector absent from the United States or in the United States
service, a spouse or dependent residing with the early voter or a qualified
elector of a special district mail ballot election as provided in article 8.1
of this chapter, the early voter may subscribe to the affidavit before and
obtain the signature and military identification number or passport number, if
available, of any person who is a United States citizen eighteen years of age
or older.
C.A person
who collects a voted early ballot from another person shall provide the early
voter with a receipt for the early ballot.The receipt shall include
the name and address of the person who is collecting the early ballot. This
subsection does not apply to:
1.An
election official, a United States postal service worker or any other person
who is allowed by law to transmit United States mail and who is engaged in
official duties.
2.A
candidate who collects fewer than ten voted early ballots for an election or a
person who is a candidate for the legislature.
3.A person
who is related to the voter by blood, marriage, adoption or legal guardianship.
4.A person
who resides at the same residence as the voter. END_STATUTE

