







REFERENCE TITLE: ADE; youth fitness; pilot program







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1508









Introduced by
Senators
  Begay, Dial, Driggs





AN ACT

establishing the
empower youth fitness pilot program; appropriating monies.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Empower youth fitness pilot program; service provider;
criteria; report; program termination
A.The department of education shall establish a twoyear
empower youth fitness pilot program to improve the physical education, health
education, fitness levels and healthy nutrition behavior of lowincome
pupils.The department of education may not distribute any monies appropriated
for the pilot program until the department receives at least an additional
$470,000 in monies from other public or private sources to fund the pilot
program.
B.On or before
September 30, 2016, schools that are operated by school districts, charter
schools and tribal schools that wish to participate in the pilot program shall
submit an application to the department of education.
C.The department of
education shall select a service provider to implement the pilot program not
later than September 30, 2016.The department shall select a service
provider that meets all of the following requirements:
1.Has allocated at
least $100,000 in non-state-appropriated monies specifically for the pilot
program.
2.Has personnel who
have demonstrated expertise in leading youth fitness programs for at least one
year, have previously conducted training and assessments conducted under the
presidential youth fitness program and have developed and implemented school
wellness plans in at least ten schools.
3.Has a health-related
fitness process.
4.Has provided physical
education teacher professional development and technical assistance to optimize
moderatetovigorous physical activity.
5.Has previously worked
with physical education and classroom and other school staff and student
volunteers in at least ten schools to reach an average of sixty minutes of
moderatetovigorous physical activity for at least twentyfive
percent of students.
6.Has helped to develop
volunteer middle and high school student groups to effectively lead moderatetovigorous
physical activity.
7.Has at least ten
years' experience in youth development leadership delivering wellness policy
impact and starting up and scaling operations to thousands of users and
comprehensive systemic rather than programmatic approaches.
8.Has personnel that
includes at least one president's youth fitness program national trainer.
9.Has personnel with a
track record of at least doubling average fitness levels over less than four
years, for at least ten thousand students in at least ten schools.
D.On or before November
30, 2016, the department of education shall select ninety schools from the
applicants to participate in the pilot program.The schools shall be
selected based on the following criteria:
1.The availability of
certified physical education teaching personnel or other adequate physical
education teaching personnel.
2.The degree of support
submitted in writing for the implementation of the pilot program.
3.An agreement by the
school to develop and implement an effective school wellness plan.
4.An agreement by the
school for personnel to be trained in assessments conducted under the
presidential youth fitness program and to assess a specified number of students
at least twice each year.
5.An agreement by the
school to publicly share aggregated privacyprotected outcomes data from
the assessments conducted under the presidential youth fitness program for the
school as a whole.
6.An agreement by the
school for appropriate personnel to participate proactively in ongoing
professional development and technical assistance for continuous improvement.
7.School enrollment in
which at least fifty percent of the pupils meet the eligibility requirements
established under the national school lunch and child nutrition acts (42 United
States Code sections 1751 through 1785) for free or reducedprice
lunches.
8.Any other criteria
specified by the department of education to maximize the impact of the pilot
program.
E.The department of
education or the service provider selected by the department may suspend or
cancel a school's participation in the pilot program if the school does not
fulfill the criteria for continued participation in the pilot program.
F.The pilot program
shall be reviewed regularly by an independent council established by the
department of education that represents a broad cross-section of state
government, educators, health care organizations, physical education experts,
health education experts, businesses and the public, including participating
Hispanic and Native American community populations.
G.On or before
September 30, 2018, the department of education shall submit to the governor,
the president of the senate and the speaker of the house of representatives a
report that summarizes the results of the pilot program, including a
recommendation on whether to expand the pilot program to additional schools.
The department of education shall provide a copy of this report to the
secretary of state.
H.This section is repealed
from and after December 31, 2018.
Sec.2.Appropriation; department of education; empower youth
fitness pilot program; exemption
A.The sum of $470,000 is appropriated from the
state general fund in fiscal year 2016-2017 to the department of education for
the purpose of implementing the empower youth fitness pilot program.
B.The appropriation made in subsection A of this
section is exempt from the provisions of section 35-190, Arizona Revised
Statutes, relating to lapsing of appropriations.

