







REFERENCE TITLE: technical correction; building codes







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1522









Introduced by
Senator
  Smith





AN ACT

Amending section
11-862, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to building codes.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 11-862, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE11-862.Advisory board; appointment; terms; duties
A.Any code adopted pursuant to this article shall
contain a provision for an advisory board consisting of at least five members
in order to determine the suitability of alternative materials and construction
and to permit interpretations of the provisions of such code. The advisory
board shall consist of at least five but not more than seven members and shall
include at least members a member from each of the following categories, to the
extent the persons meeting the qualifications are available within the county
and are residents of such county:
1.An architect duly licensed in the state of Arizona this state.
2.A professional engineer duly licensed in the state of Arizona this state.
3.A general contractor duly licensed in the state of Arizona this state.
4.A person representing the public and a resident
of the county.
5.A person engaged in the electrical, mechanical or
plumbing trade.
B.If the advisory board consists of more than five
members, the additional members may be engaged in the construction and design
industry.
C.The county official charged with the enforcement
of the code shall serve, without vote, as an ex officio member of the board and
shall act as secretary.
D.Each appointee shall have substantial experience
in the field covered by the particular code.Except as provided in
subsection F of this section, members of the advisory board shall be appointed
by the board of supervisors.Members shall be appointed for a term
of four years, staggered so that at least one but no more than two terms expire
each year. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner in
which original appointments are required to be made.
E.The functions and duties of the advisory board
may be specified by regulation by the board of supervisors.
F.If the county and a city or town contract to
provide for enforcement of codes pursuant to section 11-863, by
intergovernmental agreement pursuant to chapter 7, article 3 of this title, the
manner in which appointments are made to the advisory board may be specified in
the agreement. END_STATUTE

