







REFERENCE TITLE: law enforcement; workers' compensation;
  exposure







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1518









Introduced by
Senator
  Quezada





AN ACT

amending sections
23901, 231043.02, 231043.03 and 231043.04, Arizona
Revised Statutes; relating to workers' compensation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 23-901, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-901.Definitions
In this chapter, unless the context
otherwise requires:
1."Award" means the finding or decision
of an administrative law judge or the commission as to the amount of
compensation or benefit due an injured employee or the dependents of a deceased
employee.
2."Client" means an individual,
association, company, firm, partnership, corporation or any other legally
recognized entity that is subject to this chapter and that enters into a
professional employer agreement with a professional employer organization.
3."Coemployee" means every person
employed by an injured employee's employer.
4."Commission" means the industrial
commission of Arizona.
5."Compensation" means the compensation
and benefits provided by this chapter.
6."Employee", "workman",
"worker" and "operative" means:
(a)Every person in the service of the state or a
county, city, town, municipal corporation or school district, including regular
members of lawfully constituted police and fire departments of cities and
towns, whether by election, appointment or contract of hire.
(b)Every person in the service of any employer
subject to this chapter, including aliens and minors legally or illegally
permitted to work for hire, but not including a person whose employment is
both:
(i)Casual.
(ii)Not in the usual course of the trade, business
or occupation of the employer.
(c)Lessees of mining property and their employees
and contractors engaged in the performance of work that is a part of the
business conducted by the lessor and over which the lessor retains supervision
or control are within the meaning of this paragraph employees of the lessor,
and are deemed to be drawing wages as are usually paid employees for similar
work. The lessor may deduct from the proceeds of ores mined by the lessees the
premium required by this chapter to be paid for such employees.
(d)Regular members of volunteer fire departments
organized pursuant to title 48, chapter 5, article 1, regular firemen of any
volunteer fire department, including private fire protection service
organizations, organized pursuant to title 10, chapters 24 through 40,
volunteer firemen serving as members of a fire department of any incorporated
city or town or an unincorporated area without pay or without full pay and on a
parttime basis, and voluntary policemen and volunteer firemen serving in
any incorporated city, town or unincorporated area without pay or without full
pay and on a parttime basis, are deemed to be employees, but for the
purposes of this chapter, the basis for computing wages for premium payments
and compensation benefits for regular members of volunteer fire departments
organized pursuant to title 48, chapter 5, article 1, or organized pursuant to
title 10, chapters 24 through 40, regular members of any private fire
protection service organization, volunteer firemen and volunteer policemen of
these departments or organizations shall be the salary equal to the beginning
salary of the same rank or grade in the fulltime service with the city,
town, volunteer fire department or private fire protection service
organization, provided if there is no fulltime equivalent then the
salary equivalent shall be as determined by resolution of the governing body of
the city, town or volunteer fire department or corporation.
(e)Members of the department of public safety
reserve, organized pursuant to section 411715, are deemed to be
employees. For the purposes of this chapter, the basis for computing wages for
premium payments and compensation benefits for a member of the department of
public safety reserve who is a peace officer shall be the salary received by
officers of the department of public safety for their first month of regular
duty as an officer. For members of the department of public safety reserve who
are not peace officers, the basis for computing premiums and compensation
benefits is four hundred dollars a month.
(f)Any person placed in onthejob
evaluation or in onthejob training under the department of
economic security's temporary assistance for needy families program or
vocational rehabilitation program shall be deemed to be an employee of the
department for the purpose of coverage under the state workers' compensation
laws only.The basis for computing premium payments and compensation
benefits shall be two hundred dollars per month. Any person receiving
vocational rehabilitation services under the department of economic security's
vocational rehabilitation program whose major evaluation or training activity
is academic, whether as an enrolled attending student or by correspondence, or
who is confined to a hospital or penal institution, shall not be deemed to be
an employee of the department for any purpose.
(g)Regular members of a volunteer sheriff's
reserve, which may be established by resolution of the county board of
supervisors, to assist the sheriff in the performance of the sheriff's official
duties. A roster of the current members shall monthly be certified to the
clerk of the board of supervisors by the sheriff and shall not exceed the
maximum number authorized by the board. Certified members of an authorized
volunteer sheriff's reserve shall be deemed to be employees of the county for
the purpose of coverage under the Arizona workers' compensation laws and
occupational disease disability laws and shall be entitled to receive the
benefits of these laws for any compensable injuries or disabling conditions
that arise out of and occur in the course of the performance of duties
authorized and directed by the sheriff. Compensation benefits and premium
payments shall be based upon the salary received by a regular fulltime
deputy sheriff of the county involved for the first month of regular patrol
duty as an officer for each certified member of a volunteer sheriff's reserve.
This subdivision shall not be construed to provide compensation coverage for
any member of a sheriff's posse who is not a certified member of an authorized
volunteer sheriff's reserve except as a participant in a search and rescue
mission or a search and rescue training mission.
(h)A working member of a partnership may be deemed
to be an employee entitled to the benefits provided by this chapter upon
written acceptance, by endorsement, at the discretion of the insurance carrier
for the partnership of an application for coverage by the working
partner.The basis for computing premium payments and compensation
benefits for the working partner shall be an assumed average monthly wage of
not less than six hundred dollars nor more than the maximum wage provided in
section 231041 and is subject to the discretionary approval of the
insurance carrier. Any compensation for permanent partial or permanent total
disability payable to the partner shall be computed on the lesser of the
assumed monthly wage agreed to by the insurance carrier on the acceptance of
the application for coverage or the actual average monthly wage received by the
partner at the time of injury.
(i)The sole proprietor of a business subject to this
chapter may be deemed to be an employee entitled to the benefits provided by
this chapter on written acceptance, by endorsement, at the discretion of the
insurance carrier of an application for coverage by the sole
proprietor.The basis for computing premium payments and
compensation benefits for the sole proprietor shall be an assumed average
monthly wage of not less than six hundred dollars nor more than the maximum
wage provided by section 231041 and is subject to the discretionary
approval of the insurance carrier. Any compensation for permanent partial or
permanent total disability payable to the sole proprietor shall be computed on
the lesser of the assumed monthly wage agreed to by the insurance carrier on
the acceptance of the application for coverage or the actual average monthly
wage received by the sole proprietor at the time of injury.
(j)A member of the Arizona national guard, Arizona
state guard or unorganized militia shall be deemed a state employee and
entitled to coverage under the Arizona workers' compensation law at all times
while the member is receiving the payment of the member's military salary from
the state of Arizona under competent military orders or upon order of the
governor. Compensation benefits shall be based upon the monthly military pay
rate to which the member is entitled at the time of injury, but not less than a
salary of four hundred dollars per month, nor more than the maximum provided by
the workers' compensation law. No Arizona compensation benefits shall inure to
a member compensable under federal law.
(k)Certified ambulance drivers and attendants who
serve without pay or without full pay on a parttime basis are deemed to
be employees and entitled to the benefits provided by this chapter and the
basis for computing wages for premium payments and compensation benefits for
certified ambulance personnel shall be four hundred dollars per month.
(l)Volunteer workers of a licensed health care
institution may be deemed to be employees and entitled to the benefits provided
by this chapter upon written acceptance by the insurance carrier of an
application by the health care institution for coverage of such
volunteers.The basis for computing wages for premium payments and
compensation benefits for volunteers shall be four hundred dollars per month.
(m)Personnel who participate in a search or rescue
operation or a search or rescue training operation that carries a mission
identifier assigned by the division of emergency management as provided in
section 35192.01 and who serve without compensation as volunteer state
employees. The basis for computation of wages for premium purposes and
compensation benefits is the total volunteer manhours recorded by the
division of emergency management in a given quarter multiplied by the amount
determined by the appropriate risk management formula.
(n)Personnel who participate in emergency
management training, exercises or drills that are duly enrolled or registered
with the division of emergency management or any political subdivision as
provided in section 26314, subsection C and who serve without
compensation as volunteer state employees.The basis for computation
of wages for premium purposes and compensation benefits is the total volunteer
manhours recorded by the division of emergency management or political
subdivision during a given training session, exercise or drill multiplied by
the amount determined by the appropriate risk management formula.
(o)Regular members of the Arizona game and fish
department reserve, organized pursuant to section 17214. The basis for
computing wages for premium payments and compensation benefits for a member of
the reserve is the salary received by game rangers and wildlife managers of the
Arizona game and fish department for their first month of regular duty.
(p)Every person employed pursuant to a professional
employer agreement.
7."General order" means an order applied
generally throughout the state to all persons under jurisdiction of the
commission.
8."Heartrelated or perivascular injury,
illness or death" means myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis or any
other similar sudden, violent or acute process involving the heart or
perivascular system, or any death resulting therefrom, and any weakness,
disease or other condition of the heart or perivascular system, or any death
resulting therefrom.
9."Insurance carrier" means every
insurance carrier duly authorized by the director of insurance to write
workers' compensation or occupational disease compensation insurance in the state
of Arizona.
10."Interested party" means the employer,
the employee, or if the employee is deceased, the employee's estate, the
surviving spouse or dependents, the commission, the insurance carrier or their
representative.
11."Mental injury, illness or condition"
means any mental, emotional, psychotic or neurotic injury, illness or
condition.
12."Order" means and includes any rule,
direction, requirement, standard, determination or decision other than an award
or a directive by the commission or an administrative law judge relative to any
entitlement to compensation benefits, or to the amount thereof, and any
procedural ruling relative to the processing or adjudicating of a compensation
matter.
13."Personal injury by accident arising out of
and in the course of employment" means any of the following:
(a)Personal injury by accident arising out of and
in the course of employment.
(b)An injury caused by the wilful act of a third
person directed against an employee because of the employee's employment, but
does not include a disease unless resulting from the injury.
(c)An occupational disease that is due to causes
and conditions characteristic of and peculiar to a particular trade,
occupation, process or employment, and not the ordinary diseases to which the
general public is exposed, and subject to section 23901.01.
(d)a significant exposure as
prescribed in section 231043.02, 231043.03 or 231043.04,
if the employee is a law enforcement officer and the significant exposure
occurs in the line of duty, in the course of an arrest or as a result of an
assault on the law enforcement officer. 
14."Professional employer agreement"
means a written contract between a client and a professional employer
organization:
(a)In which the professional employer organization
expressly agrees to coemploy all or a majority of the employees
providing services for the client. In determining whether the professional
employer organization employs all or a majority of the employees of a client,
any person employed pursuant to the terms of the professional employer
agreement after the initial placement of client employees on the payroll of the
professional employer organization shall be included.
(b)That is intended to be ongoing rather than
temporary in nature.
(c)In which employer responsibilities for worksite
employees, including hiring, firing and disciplining, are expressly allocated
between the professional employer organization and the client in the agreement.
15."Professional employer organization"
means any person engaged in the business of providing professional employer
services. Professional employer organization does not include a temporary help
firm or an employment agency.
16."Professional employer services" means
the service of entering into coemployment relationships under this
chapter to which all or a majority of the employees providing services to a
client or to a division or work unit of a client are covered employees.
17."Special order" means an order other
than a general order.
18."Weakness, disease or other condition of
the heart or perivascular system" means arteriosclerotic heart disease,
cerebral vascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, cardiovascular disease,
angina pectoris, congestive heart trouble, coronary insufficiency, ischemia and
all other similar weaknesses, diseases and conditions, and also previous
episodes or instances of myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis or any
similar sudden, violent or acute process involving the heart or perivascular
system.
19."Workers' compensation" means
workmen's compensation as used in article XVIII, section 8, Constitution of
Arizona. END_STATUTE
Sec.2.Section 23-1043.02, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1043.02.Human immunodeficiency virus; establishing exposure;
definitions
A.A claim for a condition, infection, disease or
disability involving or related to the human immunodeficiency virus or acquired
immune deficiency syndrome shall include the occurrence of a significant
exposure as defined in this section and, except as provided in subsection B of
this section, shall be processed and determined under the provisions of this
chapter and applicable principles of law.
B.Notwithstanding any other law, an employee who
satisfies the following conditions presents a prima facie claim for a
condition, infection, disease or disability involving or related to the human
immunodeficiency virus or acquired immune deficiency syndrome if the medical
evidence shows to a reasonable degree of medical probability that the employee
sustained a significant exposure within the meaning of this section:
1.The employee's regular course of employment
involves handling of or
exposure to blood or body fluids, other than tears, saliva or perspiration, including health care
providers as defined in title 36, chapter
6, article 4 section
36-661, forensic laboratory workers, fire fighters firefighters, law enforcement officers, emergency
medical technicians, paramedics and correctional officers.
2.Within ten calendar days after a possible
significant exposure which that arises out of and in the
course of his employment, the employee reports in writing to the employer the
details of the exposure.The employer shall notify its insurance
carrier or claims processor of the report.Failure of the employer
to notify the insurance carrier is not a defense to a claim by the employee.
3.The employee has blood drawn within ten days after
the possible significant exposure, the blood is tested for the human
immunodeficiency virus by antibody testing within thirty days after the
exposure and the test results are negative.
4.The employee is tested or diagnosed, according to
clinical standards established by the centers for disease control of the United
States public health service, as positive for the presence of the human
immunodeficiency virus within eighteen months after the date of the possible
significant exposure.
C.On presentation or showing of a prima facie claim
under this section, the employer may produce specific, relevant and probative
evidence to dispute the underlying facts, to contest whether the exposure was
significant as defined in this section, or to establish an alternative
significant exposure involving the presence of the human immunodeficiency
virus.
D.A person alleged to be a source of a significant
exposure shall not be compelled by subpoena or other court order to release
confidential human immunodeficiency virus related information either by
document or by oral testimony.Evidence of the alleged source's
human immunodeficiency virus status may be introduced by either party if the
alleged source knowingly and willingly consents to the release of that
information.
E.Notwithstanding title 36, chapter 6, article 4,
medical information regarding the employee obtained by a physician or surgeon
is subject to the provisions of section 23908, subsection D.
F.The commission by rule shall prescribe
requirements and forms regarding employee notification of the requirements of
this section and the proper documentation of a significant exposure.
G.A law enforcement officer that sustains a
significant exposure within the meaning of this section shall receive
compensation pursuant to this chapter from the date on which the significant
exposure occurred.
H.If an exposure is a level I, level II, level III or
level IV, in addition to coverage for any eventual contraction of the human
immunodeficiency virus or acquired immune deficiency syndrome after a
significant exposure, a law enforcement officer will be covered for both
medical and compensation benefits and any time lost as a result of medication
taken as a result of the exposure.
G.i.For
the purposes of this section: ,
1."Level I" means exposure of the skin, mucous
membrane or area of the eye to an infected person's blood or body fluids. Level
I includes needle punctures and human bites.
2."Level II" means contamination of clothing
or equipment by an infected person's blood or body fluids.
3."Level III" means contact limited to merely
being in the presence of a person suspected of having a communicable disease.
4."Level IV" means exposure of the skin,
mucous membrane or area of the eye to a person's blood or body fluids when the
person's medical background is unknown and there is not sufficient information
to believe the person is in a highrisk group.
5."Significant exposure" means contact
of an employee's ruptured or broken skin or mucous membrane with a person's
blood or body fluids, other than tears,
saliva or perspiration, of a magnitude that the centers for
disease control have epidemiologically demonstrated can result in transmission
of the human immunodeficiency virus.For purposes of filing a claim
under this section, significant exposure does not include sexual activity or
illegal drug use. END_STATUTE
Sec.3.Section 23-1043.03, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1043.03.Hepatitis C; establishing exposure; definitions
A.A claim for a condition, infection, disease or
disability involving or related to hepatitis C shall include the occurrence of
a significant exposure as defined in this section and, except as provided in
subsection B of this section, shall be processed and determined under this
chapter and applicable principles of law.
B.Notwithstanding any other law, an employee who
satisfies the following conditions presents a prima facie claim for a
condition, infection, disease or disability involving or related to hepatitis C
if the medical evidence shows to a reasonable degree of medical probability
that the employee sustained a significant exposure within the meaning of this
section:
1.The employee's regular course of employment
involves handling of or exposure to blood or body fluids, other than tears, saliva or perspiration,
including health care providers as defined in section 36661, forensic
laboratory workers, fire fighters, law enforcement officers, emergency medical
technicians, paramedics and correctional officers.
2.Within ten calendar days after a possible
significant exposure that arises out of and in the course of his employment,
the employee reports in writing to the employer the details of the
exposure.The employer shall notify its insurance carrier or claims
processor of the report.Failure of the employer to notify the
insurance carrier is not a defense to a claim by the employee.
3.The employee has blood drawn within ten days
after the possible significant exposure, the blood is tested for hepatitis C by
antibody testing within thirty days after the exposure and the test results are
negative.
4.The employee is tested or diagnosed, according to
clinical standards established by the centers for disease control of the United
States public health service, as positive for the presence of hepatitis C
within seven months after the date of the possible significant exposure.
C.On presentation or showing of a prima facie claim
under this section, the employer may produce specific, relevant and probative
evidence to dispute the underlying facts, to contest whether the exposure was
significant as defined in this section, or to establish an alternative significant
exposure involving the presence of hepatitis C.
D.A person alleged to be a source of a significant
exposure shall not be compelled by subpoena or other court order to release
confidential hepatitis C related information either by document or by oral
testimony.Evidence of the alleged source's hepatitis C status may
be introduced by either party if the alleged source knowingly and willingly
consents to the release of that information.
E.Notwithstanding title 36, chapter 6, article 4,
medical information regarding the employee obtained by a physician or surgeon
is subject to section 23908, subsection D.
F.The commission by rule shall prescribe
requirements and forms regarding employee notification of the requirements of
this section and the proper documentation of a significant exposure.
G.A law enforcement officer that sustains a
significant exposure within the meaning of this section shall receive
compensation pursuant to this chapter from the date on which the significant
exposure occurred.
H.If an exposure is a level I, level II, level III or
level IV, in addition to coverage for any eventual contraction of hepatitis C
after a significant exposure, a law enforcement officer will be covered for
both medical and compensation benefits and any time lost as a result of
medication taken as a result of the exposure.
G.i.For
the purposes of this section: ,
1."Level I" means exposure of the skin, mucous
membrane or area of the eye to an infected person's blood or body fluids. Level
I includes needle punctures and human bites.
2."Level II" means contamination of clothing
or equipment by an infected person's blood or body fluids.
3."Level III" means contact limited to merely
being in the presence of a person suspected of having a communicable disease.
4."Level IV" means exposure of the skin,
mucous membrane or area of the eye to a person's blood or body fluids when the
person's medical background is unknown and there is not sufficient information
to believe the person is in a highrisk group.
5."Significant
exposure" means contact of an employee's ruptured or broken skin or mucous
membrane or other significant unbroken surface area with a person's blood or
body fluids, other than tears, saliva
or perspiration, of a magnitude that the centers for disease control have
epidemiologically demonstrated can result in transmission of hepatitis
C.For purposes of filing a claim under this section, significant
exposure does not include sexual activity or illegal drug use. END_STATUTE
Sec.4.Section
23-1043.04, Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE23-1043.04.Methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus; spinal
meningitis; tuberculosis; establishing exposure; definitions
A.A claim for a condition, infection, disease or
disability involving or related to methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus,
spinal meningitis or tuberculosis shall include the occurrence of a significant
exposure as defined in this section and, except as provided in subsection B of
this section, shall be processed and determined under this chapter and
applicable principles of law.
B.Notwithstanding any other law, an employee who
satisfies the following criteria presents a prima facie claim for a condition,
infection, disease or disability involving or related to methicillin-resistant
staphylococcus aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis if the medical
evidence shows to a reasonable degree of medical probability that the employee
sustained a significant exposure within the meaning of this section:
1.The employee's regular course of employment
involves handling of or exposure to methicillin-resistant staphylococcus
aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis.
2.Within thirty calendar days after a possible
significant exposure that arises out of and in the course of employment, the
employee reports in writing to the employer the details of the
exposure.The employer shall notify its insurance carrier or claims
processor of the report.Failure of the employer to notify the
insurance carrier is not a defense to a claim by the employee.
3.For a claim involving methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus, the employee must be diagnosed with methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus within fifteen days after the employee reports pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this subsection.
4.For a claim involving spinal meningitis, the
employee is diagnosed with spinal meningitis within two to eighteen days of after the possible significant exposure.
5.For a claim involving tuberculosis, the employee
is diagnosed with tuberculosis within twelve weeks of after
the possible significant exposure.
C.On presentation or showing of a prima facie claim
under this section, the employer may produce specific, relevant and probative
evidence to dispute the underlying facts, to contest whether the exposure was
significant as defined in this section or to establish an alternative
significant exposure involving the presence of methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis.
D.A person alleged to be a source of a significant
exposure shall not be compelled by subpoena or other court order to release
confidential information relating to methicillinresistant staphylococcus
aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis either by document or by oral
testimony.Evidence of the alleged source's methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis status may be
introduced by either party if the alleged source knowingly and willingly
consents to the release of that information.
E.Notwithstanding title 36, chapter 6, article 4,
medical information regarding the employee obtained by a physician or surgeon
is subject to section 23908, subsection D.
F.The commission by rule shall prescribe
requirements and forms regarding employee notification of the requirements of
this section and the proper documentation of a significant exposure.
G.Notwithstanding any other law, expenses for
postexposure evaluation and follow-up, including reasonably required
prophylactic treatment, for spinal meningitis or tuberculosis, shall be a
medical benefit under section 231061 or 231062 for any
significant exposure that arises out of and in the course of employment if the
employee files a claim under this article for the significant exposure or the
employee reports in writing to the employer the details of the exposure.
Providing postexposure evaluation and follow-up, including prophylactic
treatment, does not constitute acceptance of a claim for a condition,
infection, disease or disability involving or related to the significant
exposure.
H.A law enforcement officer that sustains a
significant exposure within the meaning of this section shall receive
compensation pursuant to this chapter from the date on which the significant
exposure occurred.
I.If an exposure is a level I, level II, level III or
level IV, in addition to coverage for any eventual contraction of methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis after a significant
exposure, a law enforcement officer will be covered for both medical and
compensation benefits and any time lost as a result of medication taken as a
result of the exposure.
H.j.For
the purposes of this section:
1."Employee" means firefighters, law
enforcement officers, corrections officers, probation officers, emergency
medical technicians and paramedics who are not employed by a health care
institution as defined in section 36401.
2."Level I" means exposure of the skin, mucous
membrane or area of the eye to an infected person's blood or body fluids. Level
I includes needle punctures and human bites.
3."Level II" means contamination of clothing
or equipment by an infected person's blood or body fluids.
4."Level III" means contact limited to merely
being in the presence of a person suspected of having a communicable disease.
5."Level
IV" means exposure of the skin, mucous membrane or area of the eye to a
person's blood or body fluids when the person's medical background is unknown
and there is not sufficient information to believe the person is in a highrisk
group.
2.6."Significant
exposure" means exposure in the course of employment to aerosolized
bacteria for claims under this section relating to methicillinresistant
staphylococcus aureus, spinal meningitis or tuberculosis. Significant exposure
includes exposure in the course of employment to bodily fluids or skin for
claims under this section relating to methicillinresistant staphylococcus
aureus. END_STATUTE

