







REFERENCE TITLE: ALTCS; dental services







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SB 1507









Introduced by
Senators
  Begay, Bradley, Hobbs, Yee; Representatives Cobb: Carter





AN ACT

Amending section
362939, Arizona Revised Statutes; relating to the Arizona longterm
care system.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 36-2939, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE36-2939.Longterm care system services
A.The following services shall be provided by the
program contractors to members who are
determined to need institutional services pursuant to this article:
1.Nursing facility services other than services in
an institution for tuberculosis or mental disease.
2.Notwithstanding any other law, behavioral health
services if these services are not duplicative of longterm care services
provided as of January30, 1993 under this subsection and are authorized
by the program contractor through the longterm care case management
system. If the administration is the program contractor, the administration
may authorize these services.
3.Hospice services. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "hospice" means a program of palliative and supportive
care for terminally ill members and their families or caregivers.
4.Case management services as provided in section
362938.
5.Health and medical services as provided in section
362907.
6.Dental
services in an annual amount of not more than one thousand dollars per member.
B.In addition to the services prescribed in
subsection A of this section, the department, as a program contractor, shall
provide the following services if appropriate to members who have a
developmental disability as defined in section 36551 and are determined
to need institutional services pursuant to this article:
1.Intermediate care facility services for a member
who has a developmental disability as defined in section 36551.For
purposes of this article, a facility shall meet all federally approved
standards and may only include the Arizona training program facilities, a state
owned and operated service center, state owned or operated community
residential settings and private state licensed facilities that contract with
the department.
2.Home and community based services that may be
provided in a member's home, at an alternative residential setting as
prescribed in section 36591 or at other behavioral health alternative
residential facilities licensed by the department of health services and
approved by the director of the Arizona health care cost containment system
administration and that may include:
(a)Home health, which means the provision of
nursing services or home health aide services or medical supplies, equipment
and appliances, that are provided on a parttime or intermittent basis by
a licensed home health agency within a member's residence based on a
physician's orders and in accordance with federal law.Physical
therapy, occupational therapy, or speech and audiology services provided by a
home health agency may be provided in accordance with federal law.
Home health agencies shall comply with federal bonding requirements in a manner
prescribed by the administration.
(b)Home health aide, which means a service that
provides intermittent health maintenance, continued treatment or monitoring of
a health condition and supportive care for activities of daily living provided
within a member's residence.
(c)Homemaker, which means a service that provides
assistance in the performance of activities related to household maintenance
within a member's residence.
(d)Personal care, which means a service that
provides assistance to meet essential physical needs within a member's
residence.
(e)Day care for persons with developmental
disabilities, which means a service that provides planned care supervision and
activities, personal care, activities of daily living skills training and habilitation
services in a group setting during a portion of a continuous twentyfour hour twentyfourhour period.
(f)Habilitation, which means the provision of
physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech or audiology services or
training in independent living, special developmental skills, sensorymotor
development, behavior intervention, and orientation and mobility in accordance
with federal law.
(g)Respite care, which means a service that
provides shortterm care and supervision available on a twentyfour hour twentyfourhour basis.
(h)Transportation, which means a service that
provides or assists in obtaining transportation for the member.
(i)Other services or licensed or certified settings
approved by the director.
C.In addition to services prescribed in subsection
A of this section, home and community based services may be provided in a
member's home, in an adult foster care home as prescribed in section 36401,
in an assisted living home or assisted living center as defined in section 36401
or in a level one or level two behavioral health alternative residential
facility approved by the director by program contractors to all members who do
not have a developmental disability as defined in section 36551 and are
determined to need institutional services pursuant to this
article.Members residing in an assisted living center must be
provided the choice of single occupancy.The director may also
approve other licensed residential facilities as appropriate on a case by case casebycase basis for traumatic
brain injured members. Home and community based services may include the
following:
1.Home health, which means the provision of nursing
services, home health aide services or medical supplies, equipment and
appliances, that are provided on a parttime or intermittent basis by a
licensed home health agency within a member's residence based on a physician's
orders and in accordance with federal law.Physical therapy,
occupational therapy, or speech and audiology services provided by a home health
agency may be provided in accordance with federal law. Home health
agencies shall comply with federal bonding requirements in a manner prescribed
by the administration.
2.Home health aide, which means a service that
provides intermittent health maintenance, continued treatment or monitoring of
a health condition and supportive care for activities of daily living provided
within a member's residence.
3.Homemaker, which means a service that provides
assistance in the performance of activities related to household maintenance
within a member's residence.
4.Personal care, which means a service that
provides assistance to meet essential physical needs within a member's
residence.
5.Adult day health, which means a service that
provides planned care supervision and activities, personal care, personal
living skills training, meals and health monitoring in a group setting during a
portion of a continuous twentyfour
hour twentyfourhour
period.Adult day health may also include preventive,
therapeutic and restorative health related services that do not include
behavioral health services.
6.Habilitation, which means the provision of
physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech or audiology services or
training in independent living, special developmental skills, sensorymotor
development, behavior intervention, and orientation and mobility in accordance
with federal law.
7.Respite care, which means a service that provides
shortterm care and supervision available on a twentyfour hour twentyfourhour basis.
8.Transportation, which means a service that
provides or assists in obtaining transportation for the member.
9.Home delivered meals, which means a service that
provides for a nutritious meal containing
that contains at least
onethird of the recommended dietary allowance for an individual and which that is delivered to the member's residence.
10.Other services or licensed or certified settings
approved by the director.
D.The amount of money expended by program
contractors on home and community based services pursuant to subsection C of
this section shall be limited by the director in accordance with the federal
monies made available to this state for home and community based services
pursuant to subsection C of this section. The director shall establish methods
for the allocation of monies for home and community based services to program
contractors and shall monitor expenditures on home and community based services
by program contractors.
E.Notwithstanding subsections A, B, C and F of this
section, no service may be provided that does not qualify for federal monies
available under title XIX of the social security act or the section 1115
waiver.
F.In addition to services provided pursuant to
subsections A, B and C of this section, the director may implement a
demonstration project to provide home and community based services to special
populations, including persons with disabilities who are eighteen years of age
or younger, are medically
fragile, reside at home and would be eligible for supplemental security income
for the aged, blind or disabled or the state supplemental payment program,
except for the amount of their parent's income or resources. In implementing
this project, the director may provide for parental contributions for the care
of their child.
G.Subject to section 36562, the
administration by rule shall prescribe a deductible schedule for programs
provided to members who are eligible pursuant to subsection B of this section,
except that the administration shall implement a deductible based on family
income.In determining deductible amounts and whether a family is
required to have deductibles, the department shall use adjusted gross income.
Families whose adjusted gross income is at least four hundred per cent percent and less than or equal to five hundred per cent percent of the federal poverty guidelines
shall have a deductible of two per cent
percent of adjusted gross
income.Families whose adjusted gross income is more than five
hundred percent percent of adjusted gross
income shall have a deductible of four percent
percent of adjusted gross
income.Only families whose children are under eighteen years of age
and who are members who are eligible pursuant to subsection B of this section
may be required to have a deductible for services.For the purposes
of this subsection, "deductible" means an amount a family, whose
children are under eighteen years of age and who are members who are eligible
pursuant to subsection B of this section, pays for services, other than departmental
case management and acute care services, before the department will pay for
services other than departmental case management and acute care services. END_STATUTE

