







REFERENCE TITLE: independent redistricting commission;
  membership








State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1017









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of Arizona; amending article IV, Part 2, section
1, Constitution of Arizona; relating to the independent redistricting
commission.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.Article IV, part 2, section 1, Constitution of
Arizona, is proposed to be amended as follows if approved by the voters and on
proclamation of the Governor:
1.Senate;
house of representatives; members; special session on petition of members;
congressional and legislative boundaries; citizen commissions 
Section 1. (1)
A.The senate
shall be composed of one member elected from each of the thirty legislative
districts established pursuant to this section.
B.The
house of representatives shall be composed of two members elected from each of
the thirty legislative districts established pursuant to this section.
(2)C.Upon On
the presentation to the governor of a petition bearing the
signatures of not less than two-thirds of the members of each house, requesting a special
session of the legislature and designating the date of convening, the governor
shall promptly call a special session to assemble on the date specified. At a
special session so called the subjects which may be considered by the
legislature shall not be limited.
(3)D.By February 28 of
each year that ends in one, an independent redistricting commission shall be
established to provide for the redistricting of congressional and state
legislative districts. The independent redistricting commission shall consist
of five eight members.No more than two three members of the independent redistricting
commission shall be members of the same political party. Of the first four members appointed, no more than two
four of the commissioners shall
reside in the same most populous county, two of the commissioners shall reside in
the second most populous county and two of the commissioners shall reside in
any of the remaining counties.Each member shall be a
registered Arizona voter who has been continuously registered with the same
political party or registered as unaffiliated with a political party for three
or more years immediately preceding appointment, and
who is committed to applying the provisions of this section in an
honest, independent and impartial fashion and to upholding public confidence in
the integrity of the redistricting process.Within the three years
previous to appointment, members shall not have been appointed to, elected to,
or a candidate for any other public office, including precinct committeeman or
committeewoman but not including school board member or officer, and shall not
have served as an officer of a political party, or served as a registered paid
lobbyist or as an officer of a candidate's campaign committee.
(4)E.The commission on
appellate court appointments shall nominate candidates for appointment to the
independent redistricting commission, except that, if a politically balanced
commission exists whose members are nominated by the commission on appellate
court appointments and whose regular duties relate to the elective process, the
commission on appellate court appointments may delegate to such existing
commission (hereinafter called the commission on appellate court appointments'
designee) the duty of nominating members for the independent redistricting
commission, and all
other duties assigned to the commission on appellate court appointments in this
section.
(5)F.By January 8 of
years ending in one, the commission on appellate court appointments or its
designee shall establish a pool of persons who are willing to serve on and are
qualified for appointment to the independent redistricting commission. The
pool of candidates shall consist of twentyfive
forty nominees, with ten fifteen nominees from each of the two largest
political parties in Arizona based on party registration, and five ten
who are not registered with either of the two largest political
parties in Arizona. the pool shall
include twenty candidates from the most populous county, ten candidates from
the second most populous county and ten candidates from the remaining
counties. Each county-based pool shall reflect a political party balance that
is substantially similar to the political party balance required for the entire
pool.
(6)G.Appointments to
the independent redistricting commission shall be made in the order set forth
below. No later than January 31 of years ending in one, the highest ranking
officer elected by the Arizona house of representatives shall make one
appointment to the independent redistricting commission from the pool of
nominees, followed by one appointment from the pool made in turn by each of the
following: the minority party leader of the Arizona house of representatives,
the highest ranking officer elected by the Arizona senate, and the minority
party leader of the Arizona senate.following these appointments, the highest ranking officer
elected by the arizona house of representatives and the highest ranking officer
elected by the arizona senate who is a member of the same political party as
the highest ranking officer elected by the Arizona house of representatives
shall jointly make one appointment and the minority party leader of the arizona
house of representatives and the highest ranking officer of the arizona senate
who is a member of the same political party as the minority party leader of the
Arizona house of representatives shall jointly make one
appointment.Each such official shall have a seven-day
period in which to make an appointment. Any official who fails to make an
appointment within the specified time period will forfeit the appointment
privilege.In the event that there are two or more minority parties
within the house or the senate, the leader of the largest minority party by
statewide party registration shall make the appointment.
(7)H.Any vacancy in
the above four six independent redistricting
commission positions remaining as of March 1 of a year ending in one shall be
filled from the pool of nominees by the commission on appellate court
appointments or its designee. The appointing body shall strive for political
balance and fairness.
(8)I.At a meeting
called by the secretary of state, the four
six independent
redistricting commission members shall select by majority vote from the
nomination pool a fifth seventh and eighth member who
shall not be registered with any party already represented on the independent
redistricting commission and who shall
serve as chair. If the four
six commissioners fail to
appoint a fifth seventh and eighth member
within fifteen days, the commission on appellate court appointments or its
designee, striving for political balance and fairness, shall appoint a fifth seventh and eighth member from the nomination
pool, who shall serve as chair.
(9)j.The five eight commissioners shall then select by
majority vote one two of their members to serve
as chair and vicechair.
(10)k.After having been
served written notice and provided with an opportunity for a response, a member
of the independent redistricting commission may be removed by the governor,
with the concurrence of two-thirds of the senate, for substantial neglect of
duty, gross misconduct in office,
or inability to discharge the duties of office.
(11)l.If a commissioner
or chair does not complete
the term of office for any reason, the commission on appellate court
appointments or its designee shall nominate a pool of three candidates within
the first thirty days after the vacancy occurs.The nominees shall
be of the same political party or status as was the member who vacated the
office at the time of his or her appointment, and the appointment other than the chair shall be
made by the current holder of the office designated to make the original
appointment.The appointment
designation of a new
chair or vicechair shall
be made by a majority vote of the
remaining
commissioners.If the appointment of a replacement commissioner or chair is not made within
fourteen days following the presentation of the nominees, the commission on
appellate court appointments or its designee shall make the appointment,
striving for political balance and fairness.The newly appointed
commissioner shall serve out the remainder of the original term.
(12)m.Three Five
commissioners, including
the chair or vicechair,
constitute a quorum. Three
Five or more affirmative
votes are required for any official action.Where a quorum is
present, the independent redistricting commission shall conduct business in
meetings open to the public and in
compliance with the open meeting laws of this state that are applicable to
public bodies, except with
48 fortyeight or more hours public notice
provided.
(13)n.A commissioner,
during the commissioner's term of office and for three years thereafter, shall
be ineligible for Arizona public office or for registration as a paid lobbyist.
(14)o.The independent
redistricting commission shall establish congressional and legislative
districts.The commencement of the mapping process for both the congressional
and legislative districts shall be the creation of districts of equal
population in a grid-like pattern across the state. Adjustments to the grid
shall then be made as necessary to accommodate the goals as set forth below:
A.1.Districts shall
comply with the United States Constitution and the United States voting rights
act. ;
B.2.Congressional
districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable, and state
legislative districts shall have equal population to the extent practicable.;
C.3.Districts shall
be geographically compact and contiguous to the extent practicable. ;
D.4.District
boundaries shall respect communities of interest to the extent practicable. ;
E.5.To the extent
practicable, district lines shall use visible geographic features, city, town
and county boundaries,
and undivided census tracts. ;
F.6.To the extent
practicable, competitive districts should be favored where to do so would
create no significant detriment to the other goals.
(15)p.Party
registration and voting history data shall be excluded from the initial phase
of the mapping process but may be used to test maps for compliance with the
above goals. The places of residence of incumbents or candidates shall not be
identified or considered.
(16)q.The independent
redistricting commission shall advertise a draft map of congressional districts
and a draft map of legislative districts to the public for comment, which
comment shall be taken for at least thirty days. Either or both bodies of the
legislature may act within this period to make recommendations to the
independent redistricting commission by memorial or by minority report, which
recommendations shall be considered by the independent redistricting
commission.The independent redistricting commission shall then
establish final district boundaries not
later than the beginning of the next regular legislative session in a year that
ends in two. Except as provided in subsection X of this section, if the
independent redistricting commission does not establish final district
boundaries by the beginning of the next legislative session, the commission is
terminated and the legislature shall enact final district boundaries. Without
regard to whether the independent redistricting commission adopts final
district boundaries, the legislature may refer to a vote of the people an
alternate redistricting plan or plans that, if adopted by a vote of the people,
shall constitute the final district boundaries.
(17)r.The provisions
regarding this section are selfexecuting.The independent
redistricting commission shall certify to the secretary of state the
establishment of congressional and legislative districts.
(18)s.Upon On
approval of this amendment, the department of administration or
its successor shall make adequate office space available for the independent
redistricting commission.The state treasurer of
the state shall make $6,000,000 available for the work of the
independent redistricting commission pursuant to the year 2000 census. Unused
monies shall be returned to the state's
state general fund. In
years ending in eight or nine after the year 2001, the department of
administration or its successor shall submit to the legislature a
recommendation for an appropriation for adequate redistricting expenses and
shall make available adequate office space for the operation of the independent
redistricting commission. The legislature shall make the necessary
appropriations by a majority vote.
(19)t.The independent
redistricting commission, with fiscal oversight from the department of
administration or its successor, shall have procurement and contracting
authority and may hire staff and consultants for the purposes of this section,
including legal representation.
(20)u.The independent
redistricting commission shall have standing in legal actions regarding the
redistricting planand the adequacy of resources provided for the
operation of the independent redistricting commission.The
independent redistricting commission shall have sole authority to determine
whether the Arizona attorney general or counsel hired or selected by the
independent redistricting commission shall represent the people of Arizona in
the legal defense of a redistricting plan.
(21)v.Members of the
independent redistricting commission are eligible for reimbursement of expenses
pursuant to law, and a member's residence is deemed to be the member's post of
duty for purposes of reimbursement of expenses.
(22)w.Employees of the
department of administration or its successor shall not influence or attempt to
influence the district-mapping decisions of the independent redistricting
commission.
(23)x.Each
commissioner's duties established by this section expire upon on
the appointment of the first member of the next redistricting
commission.The independent redistricting commission shall not meet
or incur expenses after the redistricting plan is completed, except if
litigation or any government approval of the plan is pending, or to revise districts
if required by court decisions or if the number of congressional or legislative
districts is changed. 
2.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
XXI, Constitution of Arizona.

