







REFERENCE TITLE: clean elections; superior court judges







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1015









Introduced by
Senator
  Dial





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

enacting and
ordering the submission to the people of a measure relating to the citizens
clean elections act.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.Under the power of the referendum, as vested in
the Legislature, the following measure, relating to the citizens clean
elections act, is enacted to become valid as a law if approved by the voters
and on proclamation of the Governor:
AN ACT
amending section
16-961, Arizona Revised Statutes; RELATING to the citizens clean elections act.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section1.Section 16-961, Arizona Revised
Statutes, is amended to read:
START_STATUTE16-961.Definitions
A.The terms "candidate's campaign
committee," "contribution," "expenditures,"
"exploratory committee," "independent expenditure,"
"personal monies,"
and "political
committee" and "statewide
office" are defined in section 16901.
B.1."Election cycle" means
the period between successive general elections for a particular office.
2."Exploratory period" means the period
beginning on the day after a general election and ending the day before the
start of the qualifying period.
3."Qualifying period" means the period
beginning on the first day of August in a year preceding an election and ending
one week before the primary election.
4."Primary election period" means the
nineweek period ending on the day of the primary election.
5."General election period" means the
period beginning on the day after the primary election and ending on the day of
the general election.
6.For any recall election, the qualifying period
shall begin when the election is called and last for thirty days, there shall
be no primary election period and the general election period shall extend from
the day after the end of the qualifying period to the day of the recall
election. For recall elections, any reference to "general election"
in this article shall be treated as if referring to the recall election.
C.1."Participating
candidate" means a candidate for
judge of the superior court in a county having a population of less than two
hundred fifty thousand persons who becomes certified as a
participating candidate pursuant to section 16947.
2."Nonparticipating candidate" means a
candidate for judge of the superior
court in a county having a population of less than two hundred fifty thousand
persons who does not become certified as a participating
candidate pursuant to section 16947.
3.Any limitation of this article that is
applicable to a participating candidate or a nonparticipating candidate shall
also apply to that candidate's campaign committee or exploratory committee.
D."Commission" means the citizens clean
elections commission established pursuant to section 16955.
E."Fund" means the citizens clean
elections fund defined by this article.
F.1."Party nominee" means a
person who has been nominated by a political party pursuant to section 16301
or 16343.
2."Independent candidate" means a
candidate who has properly filed nominating papers and nominating petitions
with signatures pursuant to section 16341.
3."Unopposed" means with reference to an election for:
(a)A member
of the house of representatives, opposed by no more than one other candidate
who has qualified for the ballot and who is running in the same district.
(b)A member
of the corporation commission, opposed by a number of candidates who have
qualified for the ballot that is fewer than the number of corporation
commission seats open at that election and for which the term of office ends on
the same date.
(c)All
other offices, opposed by no other candidate who has qualified
for the ballot and who is running in that
district or running for that same office and term.
G."Primary election spending limits"
means, : 
1.for
a candidate for the legislature
judge of the superior court in a county
having a population of less than two hundred fifty thousand persons,
twelve thousand nine hundred twenty-one dollars.
2.For a
candidate for mine inspector, fortyone thousand three hundred forty-nine
dollars.
3.For a
candidate for treasurer, superintendent of public instruction or the
corporation commission, eightytwo thousand six hundred eighty dollars.
4.For a
candidate for secretary of state or attorney general, one hundred sixtyfive
thousand three hundred seventy-eight dollars.
5.For a
candidate for governor, six hundred thirtyeight thousand two hundred
twentytwo dollars.
H."General election spending limits"
means amounts fifty per cent percent greater than the amounts amount specified in subsection G of this
section.
I.1."Original" spending
limit means a limit specified in subsections G and H of this section, as
adjusted pursuant to section 16959, or a special amount expressly set
for a particular candidate by a provision of this title.
2."Adjusted" spending limit means an
original spending limit as further adjusted pursuant to section 16952. END_STATUTE
2.The legislative council staff shall prepare
proposed legislation conforming the Arizona Revised Statutes to the provisions
of this act limiting the scope of the citizens clean elections act to judges of
the superior court in counties having a population of less than two hundred
fifty thousand persons for consideration in the fifty-third legislature, first
regular session.
3.The Secretary of State shall submit this
proposition to the voters at the next general election as provided by article
IV, part 1, section 1, Constitution of Arizona.

