







REFERENCE TITLE: death resolution; Samuel L. Polito







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1021









Introduced by
Senators
  Begay, Biggs, Bradley, Cajero Bedford, Contreras, Dalessandro, Dial, Driggs,
  Farley, Griffin, Hobbs, Miranda, Pancrazi, Sherwood, Smith, Worsley,
  Yarbrough, Yee; Representatives Alston, Borrelli, Bowers, Boyer, Cardenas,
  Carter, Espinoza, Fann, Farnsworth E, Gabaldn, Gowan, Lawrence, Mach, Meyer,
  Otondo, Rios, Robson, Stevens, Thorpe, Ugenti-Rita, Wheeler: Senators Allen
  S, Burges, Donahue, Farnsworth D, Kavanagh, Lesko, Meza, Pierce, Quezada;
  Representatives Ackerley, Andrade, Barton, Bolding, Brophy McGee, Campbell,
  Clark, Cobb, Coleman, Fernandez, Finchem, Friese, Gonzales, Gray, Kern,
  Kopec, Larkin, McCune Davis, Mendez, Mesnard, Mitchell, Montenegro, Norgaard,
  Olson, Plumlee, Pratt, Rivero, Saldate, Shope, Townsend, Velasquez





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

on the death of Samuel L. Polito.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Samuel L. Polito
passed away on July 3, 2015 at the age of eighty.
Born in Tucson,
Arizona in 1934 to humble immigrant parents, Sam understood the
transformational power of education and committed his life's work to enhancing
the educational landscape in this state.
Sam embarked on his
professional journey as an elementary school teacher, rising through the ranks
to principal, district administrator and assistant superintendent. In 1989, he
started his governmental relations firm through which he worked with Arizona
legislators and policymakers for decades, positively shaping Arizona education
policy for generations to come. Advocating for education at the local, state
and federal levels until his passing, Sam helped the people of this state
realize the value of technical education.
Sam distinguished
himself as a conscientious and hardworking individual, and his dedication and
professionalism serve as a model to all. He consistently demonstrated the
highest character and competence, and he was unsurpassed in his common sense
and knowledge of the Legislature and the legislative process. He earned the
well-deserved respect and admiration of all who had the privilege of working
with him over the years.
Dedicated to his
family, Sam Polito will be greatly missed by his beloved wife of more than
forty years, Linda, his six children, his grandchildren, his sister and
countless other family members.
Therefore
Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.That the
Members of the Legislature express sincere regret at the passing of Samuel L.
Polito and extend their deepest sympathies to his family and many friends.
2.That the
Members of the Legislature extend posthumous recognition and honor to Samuel L.
Polito for his many years of selfless service and dedication to the betterment
of education in this state.

