







REFERENCE TITLE: constitutional property tax exemptions.







State of Arizona
Senate
Fifty-second Legislature
Second Regular Session
2016






SCR 1004









Introduced by
Senator
  Burges





A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Proposing an
amendment to the constitution of Arizona; repealing article IX, sections 2,
2.1, 2.2 and 2.3, Constitution of Arizona; amending article IX, Constitution of
Arizona, by adding a new section 2; relating to exemptions from property
taxation.


(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)





Be it resolved by the Senate of the State of Arizona, the House
of Representatives concurring:
1.Article IX, sections 2, 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3,
Constitution of Arizona, are proposed to be repealed as follows if approved by
the voters and on proclamation of the Governor:
Article IX, sections 2, 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3, Constitution of
Arizona, relating to exemptions from property taxation, are repealed.
2.Article IX, Constitution of Arizona, is proposed
to be amended by adding a new section 2 as follows if approved by the voters
and on proclamation of the Governor:
START_STATUTE2.Property subject to taxation; exemptions
Section
2.A.All property in this state that is not exempt under
the laws of the United States or under this section is subject to taxation as
provided by law.
B.Property
that has been conveyed to evade taxation is not exempt.
C.The
following property is exempt from taxation:
1.All
federal, state, county and municipal property.
2.Public
debts, as evidenced by the bonds of this state and its counties, municipalities
and other political subdivisions.
3.Household
goods that are owned by their user and used solely for noncommercial purposes.
D.Subsection
C of this section is self executing, and the persons who are entitled to the
exemption are not required to take any affirmative action to receive the
benefit of the exemption.
E.The
legislature may exempt the following property by law:
1.Property
of educational, charitable and religious associations or institutions that is
not used or held for profit.
2.Personal
property that is used in a trade or business or for agricultural purposes.
3.Stocks
of raw or finished materials, unassembled parts, work in process or finished
products constituting the inventory of a retailer or wholesaler located in this
state and principally engaged in the resale of the materials, parts or
products, whether or not for resale to the ultimate consumer.
4.Cemeteries
that are set apart and used to inter deceased human beings.
5.The
property of a widow or widower who is a resident of this state.
6.The
property of a resident of this state who is at least eighteen years of age and
who has been medically certified as totally and permanently disabled.
F.The
legislature may determine by law the qualifications for, and the amount of, the
exemptions of property described in subsection E of this section. END_STATUTE
3.The Secretary of State shall submit this proposition
to the voters at the next general election as provided by article XXI,
Constitution of Arizona.

